This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Chlorhexidine Gluconate ( 1 % , volume / weight ( v / w ) ) • Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract • Fragance • Glycerin • Polyethylene Glycol • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Chlorhexidine Gluconate 1 % v / w .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Surgical hand Antiseptic , Healthcare personnel hand Antiseptic Use Surgical Hand Antiseptic : significally reduces the number of micro organisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care .
Healthcare personnel Hand Antiseptic : handwash to help reduce bacteria that can potentially cause disease .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • If you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this preparation .
• When using this product : • Do not touch eyes with hands that have been treated with this preparation .
• Keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
• May caus srious and permanent eye injure if prmitted to enter and remain in eyes • If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away • Do not use routenely if you have wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use with care in premature infants or infants undr 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• Surgical hand antiseptic apply to clean , dry hands and nails .
For the first use of each day , clean under nails with a nail stick , dispense one pump ( 2 ml ) into the palm of one hand , dip the fingertips of the opposite hand into the lotion and work it under the nails , spread the remaining lotion over the hand and up to just above the elbow , using another 2 ml of lotion , repeat with the other hand , dispnese another 2 ml of lotion into the other hand , reapply thoroughly to both hands up to the wrists .
Allow to dry before donning gloves .
• Healthcare personnel hand antiseptic apply to clean , dry hands and nails , dispense one pump ( 2 ml ) into the palm of one hand , paying particular attention to the spaces between the fingers and under fingernails , apply the product evenly to cover both hands up to the wrists , allow to dry without wiping .
Other information • Store between 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Fragance , Glycerin , Polyethylene Glycol , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel 1000 mL NDC : 79996 - 700 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4000 mL NDC 79996 - 700 - 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 20000 mL NDC 79996 - 700 - 06 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 mLNDC : 79996 - 700 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4000 mL NDC : 79996 - 700 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 20000 mL NDC : 79996 - 700 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
