Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 . 0 % Purpose Acne medication Use • for the treatment of acne • helps prevent new acne pimples from forming Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse thoroughly with water .
• using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product , may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one acne medication should be used unless directed by your doctor .
• limit use to the face and neck Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor Other information • store in a cool , dry place Inactive ingredients water , butylene glycol , octyldodecanol , steareth - 2 , cetyl alcohol , steareth - 21 , dimethicone , polyacrylamide , glycerin , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , sodium hydroxide , xanthan gum , magnesium aluminum silicate , laureth - 7 , fragrance , Lavandula stoechas extract , Helichrysum italicum extract , Cistus monspeliensis extract , titanium dioxide Questions ?
1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Tube Label Clearasil ® ULTRA Salicylic Acid 2 . 0 % Acne Medication 5 IN 1 LOTION FIGHTS 5 ACNE PROBLEMS • Blocked pores • Pimple size • Excess oil • Acne marks • Blackheads 3 . 38 FL .
OZ .
( 100 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
