Active ingredient ( s ) Diclofenac sodium ( NSAID * ) 1 % ( equivalent to 0 . 93 % diclofenac ) * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Arthritis pain reliever Use ( s )  for the temporary relief of arthritis pain ONLY in the following areas  head , wrist , elbow ( upper body areas )  foot , ankle , knee ( lower body areas )  this product may take up to 7 days to work for arthritis pain ; it is not for immediate relief .
If no pain relief in 7 days , stop use .
Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : Diclofenac may cause a severe allergic reacction , expecially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include :  hives  asthma ( wheezing )  skin reddening  blisters  facial swelling  shock  rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Liver warning : This product contains diclofenac .
Liver damage may occur if you apply :  more or for a longer time than directed  when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is small but higher if you :  are age 60 or older  have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems  take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug  take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others )  have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every dday while using this product  apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Do not use  if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever or to a fever reducer  for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
 right before or after heart surgery  on more than 2 body areas at the same time  in the eyes , nose or mouth Ask a doctor before use if  you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers  stomach bleeding warning applies to you  you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn  you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke  you are taking a diuretic  you are under the age of 18 years .
It is not known if this drug works or is safe in children under the age of 18 years .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if  under a doctor ’ s care for any serious condition  taking any other drug When using this product  avoid contact with eyes , nose , or mouth  if eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if  pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days  redness or swelling is present in the painful area  fever occurs  skin irritation occurs  any new symptoms appear .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
 you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding :  feel faint  have bloody or black stools  vomit blood  have stomach pain that does not get better  you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke :  chest pain  trouble breathing  leg swelling  weakness in one part of side of body  slurred speech Pregnancy / Breastfeeding If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use this product during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use up to 21 days unless directed by your doctor .
• Not for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
Daily Per Dose For your arthritis pain : Use 4 times per day every day Do not use on more than 2 body areasat the same time Use ENCLOSED DOSING CARD to measure a dose For each upper body area ( hand , wrist , or elbow ) Squeeze out 2 . 25 inches ( 2 grams ) For each lower body area ( foot , ankle , or knee ) Squeeze out 4 . 5 inches ( 4 grams ) Read the enclosed User Guide for complete instructions : • use only as directed • do not use more than directed or for longer than directed • apply only to clean , dry skin that does not have any cuts , open wounds , infections or rashes • do not apply in same areas as any other product • do not apply with external heat such as a heating pad • do not apply a bandage over the treated area • store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
The dosing card is re - usable .
Other information  read all product information before using .
Keep the dosing card , this carton and accompanying User Guide for important information .
Storage  store at 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) .
Keep from freezing .
Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer Type C , cocoyl caprylocaprate , fragrance , isopropyl alcohol , mineral oil , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , propylene glycol , purified water , strong ammonia solution Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 826 - 8861 ( www . salonpas . us ) Distributed by : Hisamitsu America , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ07932 2J20HA Diclofenac sodium topical gel , 1 % ( NSAID ) - arthritis pain reliever Salonpas Arthritis Pain Relief Gel Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ( NSAID ) Arthritis Pain Reliever User Guide How to use diclofenac sodium topical gel , with answers to frequently asked questions Quick Start How to get started right away with diclofenac sodium topical gel Unserstanding diclofenac sodium topical gel Diclofenac sodium topical gel , 1 % ( NSAID ) - arthritis pain reliever is an arthritis pain relief medication that you apply to your skin .
Before You Use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel Read the Drug Facts Label , which appears on the carton .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the dosing card from the inside of the carton .
You should always use the dosing card to measure out the correct dose of diclofenac sodium topical gel .
The first time you use a tube of diclofenac sodium topical gel : 1 .
Take the cap off the tube .
Open the foil seal that covers the tube opening by using the spiked top of the cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Firmly press the cap to remove the safety seal .
Do not open the safety seal with the scissors or other sharp objects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
After use , put the cap back on the end of the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using diclofenac sodium topical gel How often to use diclofenac sodium topical gel Use 4 times a day for best results .
For example : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Where to apply diclofenac sodium topical gel Diclofenac sodium topical gel can be used on up to 2 body areas from the following list : a hand , a wrist , an elbow , a foot , an ankle , a knee .
Do not use on more than 2 body areas at once .
Some examples include : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Measuring the correct amount using the dosing card [ MULTIMEDIA ] For each upper body area ( a hand , a wrist , or an elbow ) : Squeeze gel from the tube equal to the length shown on the upper body section of the dosing card ( 2 . 25 inches ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For each lower body area ( a foot , an ankle , or a knee ) : Squeeze gel from the tube equal to the length shown on the lower body section of the dosing card ( 4 . 5 inches ) .
Lost Your Dosing Card ” Don ’ t worry !
Call 1 - 800 - 826 - 8861 to get a free replacement .
Applying diclofenac sodium topical gel Gently rub diclofenac sodium topical gel into the skin using your hand .
Apply 4 times a day for best results .
Do not use on more than 2 body areas at once .
Apply only to clean , dry skin that doesn ’ t have any cuts , open wounds , infections or rashes .
Do not apply in the same area as any other medicines or products that are applied to the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After You Use diclofenac sodium topical gel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash your hands after applying diclofenac sodium topical gel .
If the treated area is the hands wait up to 1 hour to wash the hands .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash the dosing card with water .
Store dosing card with your diclofenac sodium topical gel and keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wait ten minutes before covering the treated areas with clothes or gloves .
Avoid : • showering or bathing for at least 1 hour after use • exposing the treated area to sunlight or artificial light ( such as tanning booths ) • use in the same area as other products applied to the skin • applying a bandage over the treated area • eye , nose , or mouth contact • if eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Facts you need to know Important information about diclofenac sodium topical gel Do not use diclofenac sodium topical gel … • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever or to a fever reducer • for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
• right before or after heart surgery • on more than 2 body areas at the same time • in the eyes , nose or mouth Ask a doctor before use is … • you have problems or side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic • you are under age 18 years .
It is not known if this drug works or is safe in children under age 18 years .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if … • you are under a doctor ’ s care for any serious condition • you are taking any other drug • you are pregnant or breast - feeding It is especially important not to use this product during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Warnings to consider before use … Allergy alert Diclofenac may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • hives • asthma ( wheezing ) • skin reddening • rash • blisters • facial swelling • shock If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Liver warning This product contains diclofenac .
Liver damage may occur if you apply • more or for a longer time than directed • when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID , which may cause stomach bleeding .
The chance is small but higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinner ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
This can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Follow these important guidelines when using diclofenac sodium topical gel … • use only as directed • apply only to clean , dry skin that does not have any cuts , open wounds , infections or rashes • do not apply in the same area as any other product used on the skin • do not apply with any external heat such as heating pad • do not apply a bandage over the treated area • do not get gel in eyes , nose or mouth • store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your diclofenac sodium topical gel .
The dosing card is re - usable .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop using diclofenac sodium topical gel and ask a doctor if … • pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • fever occurs • skin irritation occurs • any new symptoms appear .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • have bloody or black stools • vomit blood • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • chest pain • trouble breathing • leg swelling • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech Questions and Answers Answers to questions you may ask about diclofenac sodium topical gel Can I use diclofenac sodium topical gel for the immediate relief of pain like that associated with sprains , strains , bruises or sports injuries ?
No .
Do not use for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
It ’ s intended only for the temporary relief of arthritis pain .
How quickly will diclofenac sodium topical gel work for arthritis pain ?
Diclofenac sodium topical gel may take up to 7 days to work for your arthritis pain ; it is not for immediate relief .
With 4 times - a - day use , you may start to feel relief within a few days .
You should feel significant pain relief within 7 days of continuous use .
If no pain relief in 7 days , stop use .
What is diclofenac sodium topical gel used for ?
Diclofenac sodium topical gel can be used for the temporary relief of arthritis pain in the hands , wrists , elbows , feet , ankles , and knees .
Osteoarthritis ( OA ) is the most common form of arthritis .
It mainly affects a type of tissue called cartilage , which cushions the joints and prevents the bones from rubbing against each other .
With OA , cartilage begins to break down and wear away , resulting in joint pain and stiffness .
OA occurs more frequently as you get older .
Pain develops slowly and can gradually worsen over time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How does diclofenac sodium topical gel work ?
Diclofenac sodium , the medicine in diclofenac sodium topical gel , is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
NSAIDs are used to treat pain from medical conditions such as arthritis .
Diclofenac sodium topical gel works similarly to oral NSAIDs like ibuprofen or naproxen by temporarily blocking the production of pain signaling chemicals called prostaglandins .
However , when taking a pill , the medication is distributed to the site of pain through the bloodstream .
Compared to oral diclofenac , only 6 % of the medicine in diclofenac sodium topical gel is absorbed in the bloodstream .
It works by penetrating through your skin at the application site to deliver arthritis pain relief .
How does over - the - counter diclofenac sodium topical gel differ from prescription diclofenac sodium topical gel ?
Over - the - counter diclofenac sodium topical gel is the same strength and formula as original full prescription strength diclofenac sodium topical gel but is available without a prescription .
Apply diclofenac sodium topical gel 4 times a day to ensure you get the full effect of the medicine .
Can I apply diclofenac sodium topical gel to upper and lower body areas at the same time ?
Yes .
You can use diclofenac sodium topical gel on up to 2 body areas at the same time .
The areas can include foot , ankle , knee , hand , wrist , and elbow .
Some correct examples include : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use diclofenac sodium topical gel on more than 2 body areas at once .
Can I apply diclofenac sodium topical gel without measuring it out on the dosing card first ?
No .
Use the dosing card to make sure you are getting the correct amount of medicine .
Can I use diclofenac sodium topical gel on my spine , hips , or shoulders ?
No .
The use of diclofenac sodium topical gel on the spine , hips , and shoulders has not been studied .
Can I take any other pain medications with diclofenac sodium topical gel ?
Ask your doctor or pharmacist before using diclofenac sodium topical gel if you are already taking any other pain reliever or are planning on taking any other pain reliver , especially prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) .
Can I take any other pain medications during the first 7 days I use diclofenac sodium topical gel ?
Taking other pain medications is generally not recommended .
Speak with your doctor or pharmacist before taking other pain medications when using diclofenac sodium topical gel .
How long can I use diclofenac sodium topical gel ?
Use diclofenac sodium topical gel 4 times a day every day for up to 21 days for treatment of arthritis pain or as directed by your doctor .
Diclofenac sodium topical gel should be part of an overall program for managing your arthritis pain .
The program should also include activities such as appropriate movement or exercise , specific lifestyle changes , and weight maintenance .
Regular visits and discussions with your doctor can help incorporate diclofenac sodium topical gel into a complete program to help manage your arthritis pain .
What do I do if I get diclofenac sodium topical gel in my eyes ?
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water and consult a doctor if irritation lasts more than an hour .
How do I clean the dosing card ?
Wash the dosing card with water , and store dosing card and tube out of reach of children .
What if I miss a dose of diclofenac sodium topical gel ?
If you forget to apply diclofenac sodium topical gel , don ’ t double your dose .
Just apply the next dose as scheduled .
How should I store diclofenac sodium topical gel ?
• Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Do not freeze diclofenac sodium topical gel .
• Store the dosing card with your diclofenac sodium topical gel .
• Keep out of the reach of children .
Additional Questions ?
Call the diclofenac sodium topical gel consumer hotline at 1 - 800 - 826 - 8861 .
www . salonpas . us Distributed by : Hisamitsu America , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ07932 1520 HA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
