DESCRIPTION Anagrelide hydrochloride is an off white powder that is very slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and in dimethylformamide .
Anagrelide hydrochloride is a platelet - reducing agent with a chemical name of 6 , 7 - dichloro - 1 , 5 - dihydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ] quinazolin - 2 ( 3 H ) - one monohydrochloride monohydrate , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C10H7Cl2N3O · HCl · H2O M . W . 310 . 55 Each anagrelide hydrochloride capsule , for oral administration , contains either 0 . 5 mg or 1 mg of anagrelide base ( as anagrelide hydrochloride ) and has the following inactive ingredients : black iron oxide , crospovidone , D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue # 1 / brilliant blue aluminum lake , FD & C blue # 2 / indigo carmine aluminum lake , FD & C red # 40 / allura red aluminum lake , gelatin , lactose anhydrous , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , propylene glycol , shellac glaze and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanism by which anagrelide reduces blood platelet count is still under investigation .
Studies in patients support a hypothesis of dose - related reduction in platelet production resulting from a decrease in megakaryocyte hypermaturation .
In blood withdrawn from normal volunteers treated with anagrelide , a disruption was found in the postmitotic phase of megakaryocyte development and a reduction in megakaryocyte size and ploidy .
At therapeutic doses , anagrelide does not produce significant changes in white cell counts or coagulation parameters , and may have a small , but clinically insignificant effect on red cell parameters .
Anagrelide inhibits cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase III ( PDEIII ) .
PDEIII inhibitors can also inhibit platelet aggregation .
However , significant inhibition of platelet aggregation is observed only at doses of anagrelide higher than those required to reduce platelet count .
Following oral administration of 14 C - anagrelide in people , more than 70 % of radioactivity was recovered in urine .
Based on limited data , there appears to be a trend toward dose linearity between doses of 0 . 5 mg and 2 mg .
At fasting and at a dose of 0 . 5 mg of anagrelide , the plasma half - life is 1 . 3 hours .
The available plasma concentration time data at steady state in patients showed that anagrelide does not accumulate in plasma after repeated administration .
Two major metabolites have been identified ( RL603 and 3 - hydroxy anagrelide ) .
There were no apparent differences between patient groups ( pediatric versus adult patients ) for tmax and for t1 / 2 for anagrelide , 3 - hydroxy anagrelide , or RL603 .
Pharmacokinetic data obtained from healthy volunteers comparing the pharmacokinetics of anagrelide in the fed and fasted states showed that administration of a 1 mg dose of anagrelide with food decreased the Cmax by 14 % , but increased the AUC by 20 % .
Pharmacokinetic ( PK ) data from pediatric ( age range 7 to 14 years ) and adult ( age range 16 to 86 years ) patients with thrombocythemia secondary to a myeloproliferative disorder ( MPD ) , indicate that dose - and body weight - normalized exposure , Cmax and AUCτ , of anagrelide were lower in the pediatric patients compared to the adult patients ( Cmax 48 % , AUCτ 55 % ) .
Pharmacokinetic data from fasting elderly patients with ET ( age range 65 to 75 years ) compared to fasting adult patients ( age range 22 to 50 years ) indicate that the Cmax and AUC of anagrelide were 36 % and 61 % higher respectively in elderly patients , but that the Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite , 3 - hydroxy anagrelide , were 42 % and 37 % lower respectively in the elderly patients .
A pharmacokinetic study at a single dose of 1 mg anagrelide in subjects with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) showed no significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of anagrelide .
A pharmacokinetic study at a single dose of 1 mg anagrelide in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment showed an 8 fold increase in total exposure ( AUC ) to anagrelide .
CLINICAL STUDIES A total of 942 patients with myeloproliferative disorders including 551 patients with Essential Thrombocythemia ( ET ) , 117 patients with Polycythemia Vera ( PV ) , 178 patients with Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ( CML ) , and 96 patients with other myeloproliferative disorders ( OMPD ) , were treated with anagrelide in three clinical trials .
Patients with OMPD included 87 patients who had Myeloid Metaplasia with Myelofibrosis ( MMM ) , and 9 patients who had unknown myeloproliferative disorders .
Clinical Studies Patients with ET , PV , CML , or MMM were diagnosed based on the following criteria : ET : • Platelet count ≥ 900 , 000 / µL on two determinations • Profound megakaryocytic hyperplasia in bone marrow • Absence of Philadelphia chromosome • Normal red cell mass • Normal serum iron and ferritin and normal marrow iron stores CML : • Persistent granulocyte count ≥ 50 , 000 / µL without evidence of infection • Absolute basophil count ≥ 100 / µL • Evidence for hyperplasia of the granulocytic line in the bone marrow • Philadelphia chromosome is present • Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase ≤ lower limit of the laboratory normal range PV † : • A1 Increased red cell mass • A2 Normal arterial oxygen saturation • A3 Splenomegaly • B1 Platelet count ≥ 400 , 000 / µL , in absence of iron deficiency or bleeding • B2 Leukocytosis ( ≥ 12 , 000 / µL , in the absence of infection ) • B3 Elevated leukocyte alkaline phosphatase • B4 Elevated Serum B12 † Diagnosis positive if A1 , A2 , and A3 present ; or , if no splenomegaly , diagnosis is positive if A1 and A2 are present with any two of B1 , B2 , or B3 .
MMM : • Myelofibrotic ( hypocellular , fibrotic ) bone marrow • Prominent megakaryocytic metaplasia in bone marrow • Splenomegaly • Moderate to severe normo - chromic normocytic anemia • White cell count may be variable ; ( 80 , 000 to 100 , 000 / µL ) • Increased platelet count • Variable red cell mass ; teardrop poikilocytes • Normal to high leukocyte alkaline phosphatase • Absence of Philadelphia chromosome Patients were enrolled in clinical trials if their platelet count was ≥ 900 , 000 / µL on two occasions or ≥ 650 , 000 / µL on two occasions with documentation of symptoms associated with thrombocythemia .
The mean duration of anagrelide therapy for ET , PV , CML , and OMPD patients was 65 , 67 , 40 , and 44 weeks , respectively ; 23 % of patients received treatment for 2 years .
Patients were treated with anagrelide starting at doses of 0 . 5 to 2 mg every 6 hours .
The dose was increased if the platelet count was still high , but to no more than 12 mg each day .
Efficacy was defined as reduction of platelet count to or near physiologic levels ( 150 , 000 to 400 , 000 / µL ) .
The criteria for defining subjects as " responders " were reduction in platelets for at least 4 weeks to ≤ 600 , 000 / µL , or by at least 50 % from baseline value .
Subjects treated for less than 4 weeks were not considered evaluable .
The results are depicted graphically below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] * x103 / µL ** Nine hundred and forty - two subjects with myeloproliferative disorders were enrolled in three research studies .
Of these , 923 had platelet counts over the duration of the studies .
Time on Treatment Weeks Years Baseline 4 12 24 48 2 3 4 Mean * 1131 683 575 526 484 460 437 457 N 923 ** 868 814 662 530 407 207 55 Anagrelide was effective in phlebotomized patients as well as in patients treated with other concomitant therapies including hydroxyurea , aspirin , interferon , radioactive phosphorus , and alkylating agents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anagrelide hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of patients with thrombocythemia , secondary to myeloproliferative disorders , to reduce the elevated platelet count and the risk of thrombosis and to ameliorate associated symptoms including thrombo - hemorrhagic events ( see CLINICAL STUDIES , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Anagrelide is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Exposure to anagrelide is increased 8 fold in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Use of anagrelide in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied ( see also WARNINGS , Hepatic ) .
WARNINGS Cardiovascular Anagrelide should be used with caution in patients with known or suspected heart disease , and only if the potential benefits of therapy outweigh the potential risks .
Because of the positive inotropic effects and side effects of anagrelide , a pre - treatment cardiovascular examination is recommended along with careful monitoring during treatment .
In humans , therapeutic doses of anagrelide may cause cardiovascular effects , including vasodilation , tachycardia , palpitations , and congestive heart failure .
Hepatic Exposure to anagrelide is increased 8 fold in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Use of anagrelide in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied .
The potential risks and benefits of anagrelide therapy in a patient with mild and moderate impairment of hepatic function should be assessed before treatment is commenced .
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment , dose reduction is required and patients should be carefully monitored for cardiovascular effects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for specific dosing recommendations ) .
Interstitial Lung Diseases Interstitial lung diseases ( including allergic alveolitis , eosinophilic pneumonia and interstitial pneumonitis ) have been reported to be associated with the use of anagrelide in postmarketing reports .
Most cases presented with progressive dyspnea with lung infiltrations .
The time of onset ranged from 1 week to several years after initiating anagrelide .
In most cases , the symptoms improved after discontinuation of anagrelide ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS Laboratory Tests Anagrelide therapy requires close clinical supervision of the patient .
While the platelet count is being lowered ( usually during the first two weeks of treatment ) , blood counts ( hemoglobin , white blood cells ) and renal function ( serum creatinine , BUN ) should be monitored .
Cases of clinically significant hepatotoxicity ( including symptomatic ALT and AST elevations and elevations greater than three times the ULN ) have been reported in postmarketing surveillance .
Measure liver function tests ( ALT , AST ) before initiating anagrelide treatment and during therapy .
In 9 subjects receiving a single 5 mg dose of anagrelide , standing blood pressure fell an average of 22 / 15 mm Hg , usually accompanied by dizziness .
Only minimal changes in blood pressure were observed following a dose of 2 mg .
Cessation of Anagrelide Treatment In general , interruption of anagrelide treatment is followed by an increase in platelet count .
After sudden stoppage of anagrelide therapy , the increase in platelet count can be observed within four days .
Drug Interactions Limited PK and / or PD studies investigating possible interactions between anagrelide and other medicinal products have been conducted .
In vivo interaction studies in humans have demonstrated that digoxin and warfarin do not affect the PK properties of anagrelide , nor does anagrelide affect the PK properties of digoxin or warfarin .
In two clinical interaction studies in healthy subjects , coadministration of single - dose anagrelide 1 mg and aspirin 900 mg or repeat - dose anagrelide 1 mg once daily and aspirin 75 mg once daily showed greater ex vivo anti - platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone .
Coadministered anagrelide 1 mg and aspirin 900 mg single - doses had no effect on bleeding time , prothrombin time ( PT ) or activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) .
The potential risks and benefits of concomitant use of anagrelide with aspirin should be assessed , particularly in patients with a high risk profile for hemorrhage , before treatment is commenced .
Drug interaction studies have not been conducted with the other common medications used concomitantly with anagrelide in clinical trials which were acetaminophen , furosemide , iron , ranitidine , hydroxyurea , and allopurinol .
Anagrelide is metabolized at least in part by CYP1A2 .
It is known that CYP1A2 is inhibited by several medicinal products , including fluvoxamine , and such medicinal products could theoretically adversely influence the clearance of anagrelide .
Anagrelide demonstrates some limited inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 which may present a theoretical potential for interaction with other coadministered medicinal products sharing that clearance mechanism e . g . , theophylline .
Anagrelide is an inhibitor of cyclic AMP PDE III .
The effects of medicinal products with similar properties such as inotropes milrinone , enoximone , amrinone , olprinone and cilostazol may be exacerbated by anagrelide .
There is a single case report which suggests that sucralfate may interfere with anagrelide absorption .
Food has no clinically significant effect on the bioavailability of anagrelide .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two year rat carcinogenicity study a higher incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma , relative to controls , was observed in females receiving 30 mg / kg / day ( at least 174 times human AUC exposure after a 1 mg twice daily dose ) .
Adrenal phaeochromocytomas were increased relative to controls in males receiving 3 mg / kg / day and above , and in females receiving 10 mg / kg / day and above ( at least 10 and 18 times respectively human AUC exposure after a 1 mg twice daily dose ) .
Anagrelide hydrochloride was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell ( L5178Y , TK + / - ) forward mutation test , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , or the mouse micronucleus test .
Anagrelide hydrochloride at oral doses up to 240 mg / kg / day ( 1 , 440 mg / m2 / day , 195 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male rats .
However , in female rats , at oral doses of 60 mg / kg / day ( 360 mg / m2 / day , 49 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) or higher , it disrupted implantation when administered in early pregnancy and retarded or blocked parturition when administered in late pregnancy .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic Effects Teratology studies have been performed in pregnant rats at oral doses up to 900 mg / kg / day ( 5 , 400 mg / m2 / day , 730 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) and in pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 240 mg / m2 / day , 32 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to anagrelide hydrochloride .
Nonteratogenic Effects A fertility and reproductive performance study performed in female rats revealed that anagrelide hydrochloride at oral doses of 60 mg / kg / day ( 360 mg / m2 / day , 49 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) or higher disrupted implantation and exerted adverse effect on embryo / fetal survival .
A perinatal and postnatal study performed in female rats revealed that anagrelide hydrochloride at oral doses of 60 mg / kg / day ( 360 mg / m2 / day , 49 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) or higher produced delay or blockage of parturition , deaths of non - delivering pregnant dams and their fully developed fetuses , and increased mortality in the pups born .
There are however no adequate and well - controlled studies with anagrelide hydrochloride in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , anagrelide hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonclinical Toxicology In the 2 - year rat study , a significant increase in non - neoplastic lesions were observed in anagrelide treated males and females in the adrenal ( medullary hyperplasia ) , heart ( myocardial hypertrophy and chamber distension ) , kidney ( hydronephrosis , tubular dilation and urothelial hyperplasia ) and bone ( femur enostosis ) .
Vascular effects were observed in tissues of the pancreas ( arteritis / periarteritis , intimal proliferation and medial hypertrophy ) , kidney ( arteritis / periarteritis , intimal proliferation and medial hypertrophy ) , sciatic nerve ( vascular mineralization ) , and testes ( tubular atrophy and vascular infarct ) in anagrelide treated males .
Five women became pregnant while on anagrelide treatment at doses of 1 to 4 mg / day .
Treatment was stopped as soon as it was realized that they were pregnant .
All delivered normal , healthy babies .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Anagrelide hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Anagrelide is not recommended in women who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus .
Women of child - bearing potential should be instructed that they must not be pregnant and that they should use contraception while taking anagrelide .
Anagrelide may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reaction in nursing infants from anagrelide hydrochloride , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Myeloproliferative disorders are uncommon in pediatric patients and limited data are available in this population .
An open label safety and PK / PD study ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) was conducted in 17 pediatric patients 7 to 14 years of age ( 8 patients 7 to 11 years of age and 9 patients 11 to 14 years of age , mean age of 11 years ; 8 males and 9 females ) with thrombocythemia secondary to ET as compared to 18 adult patients ( mean age of 63 years , 9 males and 9 females ) .
Prior to entry on to the study , 16 of 17 pediatric patients and 13 of 18 adult patients had received anagrelide treatment for an average of 2 years .
The median starting total daily dose , determined by retrospective chart review , for pediatric and adult ET patients who had received anagrelide prior to study entry was 1 mg for each of the three age groups ( 7 to 11 and 11 to 14 year old patients and adults ) .
The starting dose for 6 anagrelide - naive patients at study entry was 0 . 5 mg once daily .
At study completion , the median total daily maintenance doses were similar across age groups , median of 1 . 75 mg for patients of 7 to 11 years of age , 2 mg in patients 11 to 14 years of age , and 1 . 5 mg for adults .
The study evaluated the pharmacokinetic ( PK ) and pharmacodynamic ( PD ) profile of anagrelide , including platelet counts ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
The frequency of adverse events observed in pediatric patients was similar to adult patients .
The most common adverse events observed in pediatric patients were fever , epistaxis , headache , and fatigue during a 3 months treatment of anagrelide in the study .
Adverse events that had been reported in these pediatric patients prior to the study and were considered to be related to anagrelide treatment based on retrospective review were palpitation , headache , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , back pain , anorexia , fatigue , and muscle cramps .
Episodes of increased pulse rate and decreased systolic or diastolic blood pressure beyond the normal ranges in the absence of clinical symptoms were observed in some patients .
Reported AEs were consistent with the known pharmacological profile of anagrelide and the underlying disease .
There were no apparent trends or differences in the types of adverse events observed between the pediatric patients compared with those of the adult patients .
No overall difference in dosing and safety were observed between pediatric and adult patients .
In another open - label study , anagrelide had been used successfully in 12 pediatric patients ( age range 6 . 8 to 17 . 4 years ; 6 male and 6 female ) , including 8 patients with ET , 2 patients with CML , 1 patient with PV , and 1 patient with OMPD .
Patients were started on therapy with 0 . 5 mg q . i . d . up to a maximum daily dose of 10 mg .
The median duration of treatment was 18 . 1 months with a range of 3 . 1 to 92 months .
Three patients received treatment for greater than three years .
Other adverse events reported in spontaneous reports and literature reviews include anemia , cutaneous photosensitivity and elevated leukocyte count .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of anagrelide , 42 . 1 % were 65 years and over , while 14 . 9 % were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Analysis of the adverse events in a population consisting of 942 patients in 3 clinical studies diagnosed with myeloproliferative diseases of varying etiology ( ET : 551 ; PV : 117 ; OMPD : 274 ) has shown that all disease groups have the same adverse event profile .
While most reported adverse events during anagrelide therapy have been mild in intensity and have decreased in frequency with continued therapy , serious adverse events were reported in these patients .
These include the following : congestive heart failure , myocardial infarction , cardiomyopathy , cardiomegaly , complete heart block , atrial fibrillation , cerebrovascular accident , pericarditis , pericardial effusion , pleural effusion , pulmonary infiltrates , pulmonary fibrosis , pulmonary hypertension , pancreatitis , gastric / duodenal ulceration , and seizure .
Of the 942 patients treated with anagrelide for a mean duration of approximately 65 weeks , 161 ( 17 % ) were discontinued from the study because of adverse events or abnormal laboratory test results .
The most common adverse events for treatment discontinuation were headache , diarrhea , edema , palpitation , and abdominal pain .
Overall , the occurrence rate of all adverse events was 17 . 9 per 1 , 000 treatment days .
The occurrence rate of adverse events increased at higher dosages of anagrelide .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions to anagrelide ( in 5 % or greater of 942 patients with myeloproliferative disease ) in clinical trials were : Headache … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
43 . 5 % Palpitations … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 26 . 1 % Diarrhea … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 25 . 7 % Asthenia … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 23 . 1 % Edema , other … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
20 . 6 % Nausea … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
17 . 1 % Abdominal pain … … … … … … … … … … … … 16 . 4 % Dizziness … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
15 . 4 % Pain , other … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
15 % Dyspnea … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 11 . 9 % Flatulence … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
10 . 2 % Vomiting … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 9 . 7 % Fever … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
8 . 9 % Peripheral edema … … … … … … … … … … … .
8 . 5 % Rash , including urticaria … … … … … … … … ..
8 . 3 % Chest pain … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
7 . 8 % Anorexia … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 7 . 7 % Tachycardia … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
7 . 5 % Pharyngitis … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 6 . 8 % Malaise … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
6 . 4 % Cough … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 6 . 3 % Paresthesia … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 5 . 9 % Back pain … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
5 . 9 % Pruritus … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
5 . 5 % Dyspepsia … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
5 . 2 % Adverse events with an incidence of 1 % to < 5 % included : Body as a Whole System Flu symptoms , chills , photosensitivity Cardiovascular System Arrhythmia , hemorrhage , hypertension , cardiovascular disease , angina pectoris , heart failure , postural hypotension , thrombosis , vasodilatation , migraine , syncope Digestive System Constipation , GI distress , GI hemorrhage , gastritis , melena , aphthous stomatitis , eructation Hemic and Lymphatic System Anemia , thrombocytopenia , ecchymosis , lymphadenopathy Platelet counts below 100 , 000 / µL occurred in 84 patients ( ET : 35 ; PV : 9 ; OMPD : 40 ) , reduction below 50 , 000 / µL occurred in 44 patients ( ET : 7 ; PV : 6 ; OMPD : 31 ) while on anagrelide therapy .
Thrombocytopenia promptly recovered upon discontinuation of anagrelide .
Hepatic System Elevated liver enzymes were observed in 3 patients ( ET : 2 ; OMPD : 1 ) during anagrelide therapy .
Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia , myalgia , leg cramps Nervous System Depression , somnolence , confusion , insomnia , nervousness , amnesia Nutritional Disorders Dehydration Respiratory System Rhinitis , epistaxis , respiratory disease , sinusitis , pneumonia , bronchitis , asthma Skin and Appendages System Skin disease , alopecia Special Senses Amblyopia , abnormal vision , tinnitus , visual field abnormality , diplopia Urogenital System Dysuria , hematuria Renal abnormalities occurred in 15 patients ( ET : 10 ; PV : 4 ; OMPD : 1 ) .
Six ET , 4 PV and 1 with OMPD experienced renal failure ( approximately 1 % ) while on anagrelide treatment ; in 4 cases , the renal failure was considered to be possibly related to anagrelide treatment .
The remaining 11 were found to have pre - existing renal impairment .
Doses ranged from 1 . 5 to 6 mg / day , with exposure periods of 2 to 12 months .
No dose adjustment was required because of renal insufficiency .
The adverse event profile for patients in three clinical trials on anagrelide therapy ( in 5 % or greater of 942 patients with myeloproliferative diseases ) is shown in the following bar graph : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Postmarketing Reports Cases of interstitial lung diseases ( including allergic alveolitis , eosinophilic pneumonia and interstitial pneumonitis ) , tubulointerstitial nephritis and clinically significant hepatotoxicity have been reported ( see WARNINGS , Interstitial Lung Diseases and PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE Acute Toxicity and Symptoms Single oral doses of anagrelide hydrochloride at 2 , 500 , 1 , 500 and 200 mg / kg in mice , rats and monkeys , respectively , were not lethal .
Symptoms of acute toxicity were : decreased motor activity in mice and rats and softened stools and decreased appetite in monkeys .
There have been postmarketing case reports of intentional overdose with anagrelide hydrochloride .
Reported symptoms include sinus tachycardia and vomiting .
Symptoms resolved with conservative management .
Platelet reduction from anagrelide therapy is dose - related ; therefore , thrombocytopenia , which can potentially cause bleeding , is expected from overdosage .
Should overdosage occur , cardiac and central nervous system toxicity can also be expected .
Management and Treatment In case of overdosage , close clinical supervision of the patient is required ; this especially includes monitoring of the platelet count for thrombocytopenia .
Dosage should be decreased or stopped , as appropriate , until the platelet count returns to within the normal range .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment with anagrelide hydrochloride capsules should be initiated under close medical supervision .
The recommended starting dosage of anagrelide hydrochloride capsules for adult patients is 0 . 5 mg q . i . d . or 1 mg b . i . d ( 2 capsules of 0 . 5 mg twice a day ) , which should be maintained for at least one week .
Starting doses in pediatric patients have ranged from 0 . 5 mg per day to 0 . 5 mg q . i . d .
As there are limited data on the appropriate starting dose for pediatric patients , an initial dose of 0 . 5 mg per day is recommended .
In both adult and pediatric patients , dosage should then be adjusted to the lowest effective dosage required to reduce and maintain platelet count below 600 , 000 / µL , and ideally to the normal range .
The dosage should be increased by not more than 0 . 5 mg / day in any one week .
Maintenance dosing is not expected to be different between adult and pediatric patients .
Dosage should not exceed 10 mg / day or 2 . 5 mg in a single dose ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
There are no special requirements for dosing the geriatric population .
It is recommended that patients with moderate hepatic impairment start anagrelide therapy at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / day and be maintained for a minimum of one week with careful monitoring of cardiovascular effects .
The dosage increment must not exceed more than 0 . 5 mg / day in any one week .
The potential risks and benefits of anagrelide therapy in a patient with mild or moderate impairment of hepatic function should be assessed before treatment is commenced .
Use of anagrelide in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied .
Use of anagrelide in patients with severe hepatic impairment is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
To monitor the effect of anagrelide and prevent the occurrence of thrombocytopenia , platelet counts should be performed every two days during the first week of treatment and at least weekly thereafter until the maintenance dosage is reached .
Typically , platelet count begins to respond within 7 to 14 days at the proper dosage .
The time to complete response , defined as platelet count ≤ 600 , 000 / µL , ranged from 4 to 12 weeks .
Most patients will experience an adequate response at a dose of 1 . 5 to 3 mg / day .
Patients with known or suspected heart disease , renal insufficiency , or hepatic dysfunction should be monitored closely .
HOW SUPPLIED Anagrelide Hydrochloride Capsules are available as light gray cap / white body hard gelatin capsules , spin printed in black ink [ MULTIMEDIA ] “ 5241 ” on the cap and " 0 . 5 mg " on the body containing 0 . 5 mg of anagrelide base ( as anagrelide hydrochloride ) packaged in bottles of 30 capsules .
PHARMACIST : Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured In India By : Cipla Ltd .
Goa , India Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . C 2 / 2011 ANAGRELIDE HYDROCHLORIDE CAPSULES Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Anagrelide 0 . 5 mg Text ANAGRELIDE HYDROCHLORIDE Capsules 0 . 5 mg PLATELET - REDUCING AGENT Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
