Active Ingredient White Petrolatum 89 . 5 % Purpose Skin Protectant Uses • Relieves dryness and softens crust ( scabs ) associated with cold sores and fever blisters .
• Helps prevent and temporarily protects chapped or cracked lips Warnings For external use only .
When using this product : • Do not get into eyes .
• Test on a small area of your forearm before use .
• Propolis may cause skin irritation .
• Discontinue use if rash appears .
• This product should not be used in or around the eyes .
• Do not use if allergic to bee stings or bee by - products .
Stop using and ask a doctor if : • Condition worsens .
• Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
• As with any product , ask a doctor before use if pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply as soon as symptoms and signs of cold sore appear directly to the affected area every 2 hours é 5 times per day .
Always wash your hands after touching the sore to avoid spreading the infection .
Other Close cap tightly and store in a cool , dry place .
Inactive Ingredients Mineral Oil , Propolis extract , Ethanol , Lanolin Questions ?
Call + 44 ( 0 ) 1243 786 728 or go to www . herstat . com Herstat - Moisturizing Lip Protectant - Outer Label Herstat ® Moisturizing Relief , With Propolis Relief from the symptoms of cold sores OINTMENT | Moisturizing Lip Protectant 0 . 07 oz ( 2 g ) Net Weight NDC 90100 - 201 - 02 Fragrance Free Moisturizing Protectant Cruelty Free USING HERSTAT : For best results , apply Herstat every 2 hours / 5 times per day .
Propolis Contains 3 % Purified Propolis to help soothe and moisturize dry lips .
Manufactured in Quebec , Canada for Lisoma International Ltd , 1 - 3 South Street , Chichester , PO19 1 EH , UK .
Distributed by Herstat ( USA ) Inc . 680 S Cache Street , Suite 100 – 10219 , Jackson , Wyoming , 83001 , USA .
Herstat ® and Dr Sosnowski ’ s ® are registered trademark of Lisoma International Ltd .
Lip Protectant Recommended for the relief of cold sore symptoms [ Drug Facts ] HERSTAT LOT XXXXX XX / XX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Herstat - Moisturizing Lip Protectant - Inner Herstat ® Moisturizing Lip Protectant Relief from the symptoms of cold sores 0 . 07 oz ( 2 g ) Net Weight with 3 % Propolis ACF Active ingredient White Petrolatum 89 . 5 % PurposeSkin Protectant Uses Helps prevent and protects - dry - cracked - sore lips .
WarningsFor external use only .
Test before use .
Discontinue use if rash appears .
This product should not be used in or around the eyes .
Do not use if allergic to bee stings or bee by - products .
S top use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve with 7 days .
Ask a doctor before use if pregnant or breast feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
DirectionsApply directly to affected area every 2 hours / 5 times a day .
Manufactured for Lisoma International Ltd , 1 - 3 South Street , Chichester , UK .
+ 44 ( 0 ) 1243 786 728 www . herstat . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
