Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Inactive Ingredients None Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises .
Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or towelling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
Turn your home into a personal spa and soothe away your stress and winter blues in a bat enriched with Prince & Spring Epsom Salt .
RELAXING SOAK SOLUTIONS Discover the soothing and relaxing spa - like qualities of Prince & Spring Epsom Salt in your bath !
Soaking aid for minor sparains and bruises .
DISTRIBUTED BY Jubilant LLC 451 Broadway Blvd New York , NY 10013 www . PrinceSpring . com principal panel display CUT ALONG DOTTED RESEALABLE PRESS ZIPPER TO RESEAL Fragrance - Free Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . Saline laxative for relief of occasional constipation Soaking aid for minor sprains and bruuises Spa - Some !
NET WT 8 LB ( 3 . 63 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
