Active Ingredient : TITANIUM DIOXIDE Inactive Ingredients : Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate , Cetyl Ethylhexanoate , Cyclomethicone , Dipropylene Glycol , 4 - Methylbenzylidene Camphor , PEG - 9 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Sorbitan Sesquioleate , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Benzophenone - 3 , Methylene Bis - Benzotriazolyl Tetramethylbutylphenol , Glyceryl Behenate / Eicosadioate , Sodium Chloride , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Stearic Acid , Aluminum Hydroxide , Fragrance , Butylparaben , Tocopheryl Acetate , Oryza Sativa ( Rice ) Bran Oil , Cellulose Gum , Ethylparaben , Methylparaben , Allantoin , Oryza Sativa ( Rice ) Bran Extract Directions : When you use or do leisure , apply reasonable amount on your body exposed to UV including face , neck , arms , and legs at your finishing step of basic makeup .
Take more frequent reapplication for longtime outdoor activities .
Notice for use : 1 .
Discontinue if the following symptom appears and consult with dermatologist for the continuos problem of use .
1 ) Discontinue use if redness , rash , irritation or tingling appears .
2 ) Discontinue if the above symptom appears by a direct sunlight on the applied part .
2 .
Avoid the part for a cut , eczema or dermatitis .
3 .
Please note for keeping and handling .
1 ) To keep the freshness , please close the lid after the use .
2 ) Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
3 ) Do not store this product in a place of high or low temperature .
Do not expose it to the direct sunlight .
4 ) Be careful , it may be slipper when contact with the product .
5 ) Be careful not to make contacts with clothes .
6 ) Be careful not to give a shock since the container may be broken and get injured .
7 ) UV cutoff rating and SPF rating A of this product was measured in accordance with UV cutoff rating effect and methods examined by Korea Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
