Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each patch ) Active ingredient Step 1 Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 2 Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Use reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Do not use • if you continue to smoke , chew tobacco , use snuff , use nicotine gum , or use nicotine patch or other nicotine - containing products Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• an allergy to adhesive tape or skin problems because you are more likely to get rashes Ask a doctor or a pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
When using this product • do not smoke even when not wearing the patch .
The nicotine in your skin will still be entering your bloodstream for several hours after you take off the patch .
• if you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances remove this patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or your skin swells , or you get a rash • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose , such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness and rapid heartbeat Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of used patch by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
Directions • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • before using this product , read the enclosed self - help guide for complete directions and other information • stop smoking completely when you begin using the patch • if you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use the following schedule : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • if you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 for 6 weeks , then Step 3 for 2 weeks and then stop • apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean and hairless • remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds .
• wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of used patch by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
• the used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • if you have vivid dreams , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • do not wear more than one patch at a time • do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • stop using the patch at the end of 8 weeks .
If you still feel the need to use the patch talk to your doctor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acrylate adhesive , polyester , silicone adhesive Comments or questions ?
Call 1 - 877 - 440 - 7867 Principal Display Panel NDC 63868 - 190 - 14 * Compare to the active ingredient in HABITROL ® Clear Nicotine Transdermal System Step 1 Stop Smoking Aid Nicotine / 21 mg Delivered Over 24 Hours Includes : Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide Free Audio CD Upon Request .
See self - help guide inside .
If you Smoke MORE than 10 cigarrettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarrettes per day : Start with Step 2 21 mg 14 Pactches © Distributed by C . D . M . A , Inc .
Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 63868 - 190 - 14 * Compare to the active ingredient in HABITROL ® Clear Nicotine Transdermal System Step 2 Stop Smoking Aid Nicotine / 21 mg Delivered Over 24 Hours Includes : Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide Free Audio CD Upon Request .
See self - help guide inside .
If you Smoke MORE than 10 cigarrettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarrettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 mg 14 Pactches © Distributed by C . D . M . A , Inc .
Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
