Dosage and Administration , Important Administration Instructions ( 2 . 1 ) 2 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CIPRODEX is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below : Acute Otitis Media ( AOM ) in pediatric patients ( age 6 months and older ) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Acute Otitis Externa ( AOE ) in pediatric ( age 6 months and older ) , adult and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
CIPRODEX is a combination of ciprofloxacin , a fluoroquinolone antibacterial and dexamethasone , a corticosteroid , indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below : • • Acute Otitis Media ( AOM ) in pediatric patients ( age 6 months and older ) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
( 1 ) • • Acute Otitis Externa ( AOE ) in pediatric ( age 6 months and older ) , adult and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CIPRODEX is for otic use ( ears ) only , not for ophthalmic use , or for injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • 3 .
Shake well immediately before use .
( 2 . 1 ) • 4 .
Instill four drops into the affected ear twice daily , for seven days .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • • CIPRODEX is for otic use ( ears ) only , and not for ophthalmic use , or for injection .
• • Shake well immediately before use .
2 . 2 Dosage For the Treatment of Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients ( age 6 months and older ) With Tympanostomy Tubes The recommended dosage regimen through tympanostomy tubes is as follows : • 1 .
Four drops [ equivalent to 0 . 14 mL of CIPRODEX , ( consisting of 0 . 42 mg of ciprofloxacin and 0 . 14 mg of dexamethasone ) ] instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days .
• 2 .
The suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness , which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension .
• 3 .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward , and then the drops should be instilled .
• 4 .
The tragus should then be pumped 5 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the drops into the middle ear .
• 5 .
This position should be maintained for 60 seconds .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
• 6 .
Discard unused portion after therapy is completed .
For the Treatment of Acute Otitis Externa ( age 6 months and older ) The recommended dosage regimen is as follows : • 1 .
Four drops [ equivalent to 0 . 14 mL of CIPRODEX , ( consisting of 0 . 42 mg ciprofloxacin and 0 . 14 mg dexamethasone ) ] instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days .
• 2 .
The suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness , which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension .
• 3 .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward , and then the drops should be instilled .
• 4 .
This position should be maintained for 60 seconds to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
• 5 .
Discard unused portion after therapy is completed .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Otic Suspension : Each mL of CIPRODEX contains ciprofloxacin hydrochloride 0 . 3 % ( equivalent to 3 mg ciprofloxacin base ) and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % equivalent to 1 mg dexamethasone .
Otic Suspension : Each mL of CIPRODEX contains ciprofloxacin hydrochloride 0 . 3 % ( equivalent to 3 mg ciprofloxacin base ) and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ( equivalent to 1 mg dexamethasone ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • CIPRODEX is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin , to other quinolones , or to any of the components in this medication .
• • Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal , including herpes simplex infections and fungal otic infections .
• • CIPRODEX is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin , to other quinolones , or to any of the components in this medication .
( 4 ) • • Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal , including herpes simplex infections and fungal otic infections .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis have been reported with systemic use of quinolones .
Discontinue use if this occurs with use of CIPRODEX .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible bacteria and fungi .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions CIPRODEX should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions , some following the first dose , have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones .
Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse , loss of consciousness , angioedema ( including laryngeal , pharyngeal , or facial edema ) , airway obstruction , dyspnea , urticaria , and itching .
5 . 2 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth With Prolonged Use Prolonged use of CIPRODEX may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible , bacteria and fungi .
If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment , cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment .
If such infections occur , discontinue use and institute alternative therapy .
5 . 3 Continued or Recurrent Otorrhea If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy , or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within six months , further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma , foreign body , or a tumor .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • 1 .
Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • 2 .
Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions were ear discomfort ( 3 % ) , ear pain ( 2 . 3 % ) , and ear pruritus ( 1 . 5 % ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In Phases II and III clinical trials , a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX .
This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes ( AOMT ) and 537 patients with AOE .
The reported adverse reactions are listed below : Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients With Tympanostomy Tubes The following adverse reactions occurred in 0 . 5 % or more of the patients with non - intact tympanic membranes .
Adverse Reactions Incidence ( N = 400 ) Ear discomfort 3 . 0 % Ear pain 2 . 3 % Ear precipitate ( residue ) 0 . 5 % Irritability 0 . 5 % Taste Perversion 0 . 5 % The following adverse reactions were each reported in a single patient : tympanostomy tube blockage ; ear pruritus ; tinnitus ; oral moniliasis ; crying ; dizziness ; and erythema .
Acute Otitis Externa The following adverse reactions occurred in 0 . 4 % or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes .
Adverse Reactions Incidence ( N = 537 ) Ear pruritus 1 . 5 % Ear debris 0 . 6 % Superimposed ear infection 0 . 6 % Ear congestion 0 . 4 % Ear pain 0 . 4 % Erythema 0 . 4 % The following adverse reactions were each reported in a single patient : ear discomfort ; decreased hearing ; and ear disorder ( tingling ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of CIPRODEX .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions include : auricular swelling , headache , hypersensitivity , otorrhea , skin exfoliation , rash erythematous , and vomiting .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C : No adequate and well controlled studies with CIPRODEX have been performed in pregnant women .
Caution should be exercised when CIPRODEX is used by a pregnant woman .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with CIPRODEX .
Reproduction studies with ciprofloxacin have been performed in rats and mice using oral doses of up to 100 mg / kg and intravenous ( IV ) doses up to 30 mg / kg , and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
In rabbits , ciprofloxacin ( 30 and 100 mg / kg orally ) produced gastrointestinal disturbances resulting in maternal weight loss and an increased incidence of abortion , but no teratogenicity was observed at either dose .
After IV administration of doses up to 20 mg / kg , no maternal toxicity was produced in the rabbit , and no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ciprofloxacin and corticosteroids , as a class , appear in milk following oral administration .
Dexamethasone in breast milk could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical otic administration of ciprofloxacin or dexamethasone could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because of the potential for unwanted effects in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of CIPRODEX have been established in pediatric patients 6 months and older ( 937 patients ) in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
No clinically relevant changes in hearing function were observed in 69 pediatric patients ( age 4 to 12 years ) treated with CIPRODEX and tested for audiometric parameters .
10 OVERDOSAGE Due to the characteristics of this preparation , no toxic effects are to be expected with an otic overdose of this product .
11 DESCRIPTION CIPRODEX ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) Sterile Otic Suspension contains the quinolone antimicrobial , ciprofloxacin hydrochloride , combined with the corticosteroid , dexamethasone , in a sterile , preserved suspension for otic use .
Each mL of CIPRODEX contains ciprofloxacin hydrochloride ( equivalent to 3 mg ciprofloxacin base ) , 1 mg dexamethasone , and 0 . 1 mg benzalkonium chloride as a preservative .
The inactive ingredients are acetic acid , boric acid , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , purified water , sodium acetate , sodium chloride , and tyloxapol .
Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid may be added for adjustment of pH . Ciprofloxacin , a quinolone antimicrobial is available as the monohydrochloride monohydrate salt of 1 - cyclopropyl - 6 - fluoro - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 4 - oxo - 7 - ( 1 - piperazinyl ) - 3 - quinoline carboxylic acid .
The empirical formula is C17H18FN3O3 · HCl · H2O .
The molecular weight is 385 . 82 g / mol and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dexamethasone , 9 - fluoro - 11 ( beta ) , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 ( alpha ) - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , is a corticosteroid .
The empirical formula is C22H29FO5 .
The molecular weight is 392 . 46 g / mol and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Dexamethasone , a corticosteroid , has been shown to suppress inflammation by inhibiting multiple inflammatory cytokines resulting in decreased edema , fibrin deposition , capillary leakage and migration of inflammatory cells .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following a single bilateral 4 - drop ( total dose = 0 . 28 mL , 0 . 84 mg ciprofloxacin , 0 . 28 mg dexamethasone ) topical otic dose of CIPRODEX to pediatric patients after tympanostomy tube insertion , measurable plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin and dexamethasone were observed at 6 hours following administration in 2 of 9 patients and 5 of 9 patients , respectively .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin were 1 . 39 ± 0 . 880 ng / mL ( n = 9 ) .
Peak plasma concentrations ranged from 0 . 543 ng / mL to 3 . 45 ng / mL and were on average approximately 0 . 1 % of peak plasma concentrations achieved with an oral dose of 250 - mg .
Peak plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin were observed within 15 minutes to 2 hours post dose application .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations of dexamethasone were 1 . 14 ± 1 . 54 ng / mL ( n = 9 ) .
Peak plasma concentrations ranged from 0 . 135 ng / mL to 5 . 10 ng / mL and were on average approximately 14 % of peak concentrations reported in the literature following an oral 0 . 5 - mg tablet dose .
Peak plasma concentrations of dexamethasone were observed within 15 minutes to 2 hours post dose application .
Dexamethasone has been added to aid in the resolution of the inflammatory response accompanying bacterial infection ( such as otorrhea in pediatric patients with AOMT ) .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action The bactericidal action of ciprofloxacin results from interference with the enzyme , DNA gyrase , which is needed for the synthesis of bacterial DNA .
Resistance Cross - resistance has been observed between ciprofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones .
There is generally no cross - resistance between ciprofloxacin and other classes of anti - bacterial agents , such as beta - lactams or aminoglycosides .
Antimicrobial Activity Ciprofloxacin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and clinically in otic infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Aerobic Bacteria Gram - positive Bacteria • • Staphylococcus aureus • • Streptococcus pneumoniae Gram - negative Bacteria • • Haemophilus influenzae • • Moraxella catarrhalis • • Pseudomonas aeruginosa 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed for ciprofloxacin .
After daily oral doses of 750 mg / kg ( mice ) and 250 mg / kg ( rats ) were administered for up to 2 years , there was no evidence that ciprofloxacin had any carcinogenic or tumorigenic effects in these species .
No long term studies of CIPRODEX have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin , and the test results are listed below : • • Salmonella / Microsome Test ( Negative ) • • E . coli DNA Repair Assay ( Negative ) • • Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay ( Positive ) • • Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test ( Negative ) • • Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay ( Negative ) • • Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay ( Negative ) • • Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay ( Negative ) • • Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay ( Positive ) Thus , 2 of the 8 tests were positive , but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results : • • Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay • • Micronucleus Test ( Mice ) • • Dominant Lethal Test ( Mice ) Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of impairment .
This would be over 100 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of ototopical ciprofloxacin based upon body surface area , assuming total absorption of ciprofloxacin from the ear of a patient treated with CIPRODEX twice per day according to label directions .
Long - term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of topical otic dexamethasone .
Dexamethasone has been tested for in vitro and in vivo genotoxic potential and shown to be positive in the following assays : chromosomal aberrations , sister - chromatid exchange in human lymphocytes , and micronuclei and sister - chromatid exchanges in mouse bone marrow .
However , the Ames / Salmonella assay , both with and without S9 mix , did not show any increase in His + revertants .
The effect of dexamethasone on fertility has not been investigated following topical otic application .
However , the lowest toxic dose of dexamethasone identified following topical dermal application was 1 . 802 mg / kg in a 26 - week study in male rats and resulted in changes to the testes , epididymis , sperm duct , prostate , seminal vesicle , Cowper ' s gland , and accessory glands .
The relevance of this study for short - term topical otic use is unknown .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Guinea pigs dosed in the middle ear with CIPRODEX for one month exhibited no drug - related structural or functional changes of the cochlear hair cells and no lesions in the ossicles .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , multicenter , controlled clinical trial , CIPRODEX dosed 2 times per day for 7 days demonstrated clinical cures in the per protocol analysis in 86 % of AOMT patients compared to 79 % for ofloxacin solution , 0 . 3 % , dosed 2 times per day for 10 days .
Among culture positive patients , clinical cures were 90 % for CIPRODEX compared to 79 % for ofloxacin solution , 0 . 3 % .
Microbiological eradication rates for these patients in the same clinical trial were 91 % for CIPRODEX compared to 82 % for ofloxacin solution , 0 . 3 % .
In 2 randomized multicenter , controlled clinical trials , CIPRODEX dosed 2 times per day for 7 days demonstrated clinical cures in 87 % and 94 % of per protocol evaluable AOE patients , respectively , compared to 84 % and 89 % , respectively , for otic suspension containing neomycin 0 . 35 % , polymyxin B 10 , 000 units / mL , and hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % ( neo / poly / HC ) .
Among culture positive patients clinical cures were 86 % and 92 % for CIPRODEX compared to 84 % and 89 % , respectively , for neo / poly / HC .
Microbiological eradication rates for these patients in the same clinical trials were 86 % and 92 % for CIPRODEX compared to 85 % and 85 % , respectively , for neo / poly / HC .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied : CIPRODEX ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) Sterile Otic Suspension is a white - to off - white suspension supplied as follows : 7 . 5 mL fill in a DROP - TAINER ® system .
The DROP - TAINER system consists of a natural polyethylene bottle and natural plug , with a white polypropylene closure .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the package .
7 . 5 mL fill NDC 71205 - 309 - 75 Storage : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
For Otic Use Only Advise patients that CIPRODEX is for otic use ( ears ) only .
This product must not be used in the eye .
Administration Instructions Instruct patients to warm the bottle in their hand for one to two minutes prior to use and shake well immediately before using [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
Allergic Reactions Advise patients to discontinue use immediately and contact their physician , if rash or allergic reaction occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Avoid Contamination of the Product Advise patients to avoid contaminating the tip with material from the ear , fingers , or other sources [ see Instructions for Use ] .
Duration of Use Advise patients that it is very important to use the eardrops for as long as their doctor has instructed , even if the symptoms improve [ see Patient Information ] .
Protect From Light Advise patients to protect the product from light [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Unused Product Advise patients to discard unused portion after therapy is completed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
DROP - TAINER is a trademark of Alcon .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 • Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 T2019 - 37 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : February 2019 PATIENT INFORMATION CIPRODEX ( CI - PRO - DEX ) ( ciprofloxacin and dexamethasone ) otic suspension • What is CIPRODEX ?
CIPRODEX is a prescription medicine used in the ear only ( otic use ) that contains 2 medicines , a quinolone antibiotic medicine called ciprofloxacin and a corticosteroid medicine called dexamethasone .
CIPRODEX is used in adults and children 6 months of age or older to treat certain types of infections caused by certain germs called bacteria .
These bacterial infections include : • 1 .
middle ear infection ( known as acute otitis media or AOM ) in people who have a tube in their eardrum known as a tympanostomy to prevent having too much fluid in the middle ear • 2 .
outer ear canal infection ( known as acute otitis externa or AOE ) • It is not known if CIPRODEX is safe and effective in children under 6 months of age .
• Who should not use CIPRODEX ?
Do not use CIPRODEX if you : • 1 .
are allergic to ciprofloxacin , quinolones , or any of the ingredients in CIPRODEX .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in CIPRODEX .
• 2 .
have an outer ear canal infection caused by certain viruses including the herpes simplex virus • 3 .
have an ear infection caused by a fungus What should I tell my doctor before using CIPRODEX ?
Before using CIPRODEX , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • 1 .
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if CIPRODEX will harm your unborn baby .
• 2 .
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
CIPRODEX can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will use CIPRODEX or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
• Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use CIPRODEX ?
• 1 .
Read the detailed Instructions for Use that come with CIPRODEX .
• 2 .
Use CIPRODEX exactly as your doctor tells you to .
• 3 .
CIPRODEX is for use in the ear only ( otic use ) .
Do not use CIPRODEX in the eye or inject CIPRODEX .
• 4 .
Apply 4 drops of CIPRODEX into the affected ear 2 times a day for 7 days .
• 5 .
Do not stop using CIPRODEX unless your doctor tells you to , even if your symptoms improve .
• If your symptoms do not improve after 7 days of treatment with CIPRODEX , call your doctor .
• 6 .
Call your doctor right away if : • 1 .
you have fluid that continues to drain from your ear ( otorrhea ) after you have finished your treatment with CIPRODEX • 2 .
you have fluid that drains from your ear 2 or more times within 6 months after you stop treatment with CIPRODEX What are the possible side effects of CIPRODEX ?
CIPRODEX may cause serious side effects , including : • 1 .
allergic reactions .
Stop using CIPRODEX and call your doctor if you have any of the following signs or symptoms of an allergic reaction : • ohives ( urticaria ) • otrouble breathing • oswelling of your face , lips , mouth , or tongue • odizziness , fast heartbeat , or pounding in your chest • orash • oitching The most common side effects of CIPRODEX include : • 1 .
ear discomfort • 2 .
ear pain • 3 .
ear itching ( pruritus ) • These are not all the possible side effects of CIPRODEX .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store CIPRODEX ?
• 1 .
Store CIPRODEX at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• 2 .
Do not freeze CIPRODEX .
• 3 .
Keep CIPRODEX out of light .
Keep CIPRODEX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• General information about the safe and effective use of CIPRODEX .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use CIPRODEX for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not use CIPRODEX in the eye .
Do not give CIPRODEX to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about CIPRODEX that is written for health professionals .
• What are the ingredients in CIPRODEX ?
Active ingredients : ciprofloxacin hydrochloride , dexamethasone , and benzalkonium chloride as a preservative Inactive ingredients : acetic acid , boric acid , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , purified water , sodium acetate , sodium chloride , and tyloxapol .
Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid may be added for adjustment of pH . Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 T2019 - 38 © Novartis This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : February 2019 Instructions for Use CIPRODEX ( CI - PRO - DEX ) ( ciprofloxacin and dexamethasone ) otic suspension Read this Instructions for Use that comes with CIPRODEX before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Important information about CIPRODEX : • 1 .
Use CIPRODEX exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• 2 .
CIPRODEX is for use in the ear only ( otic use ) .
Do not inject CIPRODEX or use CIPRODEX in the eye .
• 3 .
Shake CIPRODEX well before each use .
• 4 .
Do not touch your ear , fingers , or other surfaces with the tip of the CIPRODEX bottle .
You may get bacteria on the tip of the bottle that can cause you to get another infection .
How should I use CIPRODEX ?
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 .
Wash your hands with soap and water .
Step 2 .
Warm the bottle of CIPRODEX by rolling the bottle between your hands for 1 to 2 minutes ( See Figure A ) .
Shake the bottle of CIPRODEX well .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Step 3 .
Remove the CIPRODEX cap .
Put the cap in a clean and dry area .
Do not let the tip of the bottle touch your ear , fingers or other surfaces .
Step 4 .
Lie down on your side so that the affected ear faces upward ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 5 .
Hold the bottle of CIPRODEX between your thumb and index finger ( See Figure C ) .
Place the tip of the bottle close to your ear .
Be careful not to touch your fingers or ear with the tip of the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 6 .
Gently squeeze the bottle and let 4 drops of CIPRODEX fall into the affected ear .
If a drop misses your ear , follow the instructions in Step 5 again .
Step 7 .
Stay on your side with the affected ear facing upward ( See Figure B ) .
It is important that you follow the instructions below for your specific ear infection , to allow CIPRODEX to enter the affected part of your ear .
Step 8 .
If you use CIPRODEX to treat a middle ear infection , and you have a tube in your eardrum known as a tympanostomy : • 1 .
Gently press the part of the ear known as the tragus ( See Figure D ) 5 times using a pumping motion ( See Figure D ) .
This will allow the drops of CIPRODEX to enter your middle ear .
• 2 .
Remain on your side with the affected ear facing upward ( See Figure B ) for 1 minute .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D If you use CIPRODEX to treat an outer ear canal infection : • 1 .
Gently pull the outer ear lobe upward and backward ( See Figure E ) .
This will allow the drops of CIPRODEX to enter your ear canal .
• 2 .
Remain on your side with the affected ear facing upward ( See Figure B ) for 1 minute .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 9 .
If your doctor has told you to use CIPRODEX in both ears , repeat steps 5 - 8 for your other ear .
Step 10 .
Put the cap back on the bottle and close it tightly .
Step 11 .
After you have used all of your CIPRODEX doses , there may be some CIPRODEX left in the bottle .
Throw the bottle away .
How should I store CIPRODEX ?
• 1 .
Store CIPRODEX at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• 2 .
Do not freeze CIPRODEX .
• 3 .
Keep CIPRODEX out of light .
Keep CIPRODEX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for more information about CIPRODEX that is written for health professionals .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 © Novartis T2019 - 39 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 71205 - 309 - 75 Rx Only CIPRODEX ® ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) STERILE OTIC SUSPENSION 7 . 5 mL Alcon ® a Novartis company [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
