• Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) 2 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is indicated for procedures requiring a rapid and short - acting topical ophthalmic anesthetic .
Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % , is an ester local anesthetic indicated for procedures requiring a rapid and short - acting topical ophthalmic anesthetic .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One drop topically in the eye ( s ) as needed .
One drop topically in the eye ( s ) as needed .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is a clear , colorless , ophthalmic solution containing 0 . 5 % w / v tetracaine hydrochloride equivalent to tetracaine 0 . 44 % w / v .
Ophthalmic solution containing 0 . 5 % tetracaine hydrochloride .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % should not be used in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % should not be used in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Do not use intracamerally since use may damage corneal endothelial cells .
( 5 . 1 ) • Prolonged use or abuse may lead to corneal epithelial toxicity and may manifest as epithelial defects which may progress to permanent corneal damage .
( 5 . 2 ) • Patients should not touch the eye for at least 10 - 20 minutes after using anesthetic as accidental injuries can occur due to insensitivity of the eye .
( 5 . 3 ) • For Administration by Healthcare Provider : Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is not intended for patient self - administration .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Corneal Injury with Intracameral Use Not for injection or intraocular use .
Do not use intracamerally because use of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % may lead to damage of the corneal endothelial cells .
5 . 2 Corneal Toxicity Prolonged use or abuse may lead to corneal epithelial toxicity and may manifest as epithelial defects which may progress to permanent corneal damage .
5 . 3 Corneal Injury Due to Insensitivity Patients should not touch the eye for at least 10 - 20 minutes after using anesthetic as accidental injuries can occur due to insensitivity of the eye .
5 . 4 For Administration by Healthcare Provider Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is indicated for administration under the direct supervision of a healthcare provider .
Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is not intended for patient self - administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious ocular adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Corneal Injury with Intracameral Use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Corneal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Corneal Injury Due to Insensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Ocular Adverse Reactions Transient stinging , burning , and conjunctival redness , eye irritation , eye pain , ocular discomfort .
Ocular adverse events : transient stinging , burning , conjunctival redness , eye irritation , eye pain , ocular discomfort .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Oceanside Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % in pregnant women .
Animal developmental and reproductive toxicity studies with tetracaine hydrochloride have not been reported in the published literature .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data to assess whether Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is excreted in human milk or to assess its effects on milk production / excretion .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential No human data on the effect of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % on fertility are available .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % in the pediatric population has been demonstrated in clinical trials .
Efficacy of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % for use in pediatric patients has been extrapolated from adequate and well controlled clinical trials in the adult population .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic including Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % may produce permanent corneal opacification and ulceration with accompanying visual loss .
11 DESCRIPTION Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is a sterile , clear , colorless , topical local anesthetic for ophthalmic use only containing tetracaine hydrochloride as the active pharmaceutical ingredient .
Tetracaine hydrochloride is chemically designated as benzoic acid , 4 - ( butylamino ) - , 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ester , monohydrochloride .
Its chemical formula is C 15 H 24 N 2 O 2 ● HCl and it is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tetracaine hydrochloride is a fine , white , crystalline , odorless powder with a molecular weight of 300 . 82 Active ingredient : tetracaine hydrochloride 0 . 5 % w / v ( equivalent to 0 . 44 % w / v tetracaine ) Preservative : chlorobutanol 0 . 4 % Inactive ingredients : boric acid , potassium chloride , edetate disodium dihydrate , water for injection .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 7 – 6 . 0 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tetracaine blocks sodium ion channels required for the initiation and conduction of neuronal impulses thereby affecting local anesthesia .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The systemic exposure to tetracaine following topical ocular administration of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % has not been studied .
Tetracaine hydrochloride is metabolized by plasma pseudocholinesterases and nonspecific esterases in ocular tissues .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies to assess the genotoxicity of tetracaine hydrochloride have not been reported in the published literature .
Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of tetracaine hydrochloride .
Animal studies to assess the effects of tetracaine hydrochloride on fertility have not been reported in the published literature .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Topical administration of Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % results in localized temporary anesthesia .
The maximum effect is achieved within 10 – 20 seconds after instillation , with efficacy lasting 10 – 20 minutes .
Duration of effect can be extended with repeated dosing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is supplied as a sterile , aqueous , topical ophthalmic solution in a low - density polyethylene plastic dropper bottle with a low - density polyethylene dropper tip and white polypropylene cap in the following sizes : NDC : NDC : 70518 - 2741 - 00 PACKAGING : 1 in 1 CARTON , 15 mL in 1 BOTTLE TYPE 0 After opening , this product can be used until the expiration date stamped on the bottle .
Storage : Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Do not use if solution contains crystals , cloudy , or discolored .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Eye Care Precaution Do not touch the dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
Advise patients that , due to the effect of the anesthetic , their eyes will be insensitive for up to 20 minutes and that care should be taken to avoid accidental injuries .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 DRUG : Tetracaine Hydrochloride GENERIC : Tetracaine Hydrochloride DOSAGE : SOLUTION / DROPS ADMINSTRATION : OPHTHALMIC NDC : 70518 - 2741 - 0 PACKAGING : 15 mL in 1 BOTTLE OUTER PACKAGING : 1 in 1 CARTON ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • TETRACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE 5 mg in 1 mL INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • CHLOROBUTANOL • BORIC ACID • POTASSIUM CHLORIDE • EDETATE DISODIUM • WATER • SODIUM HYDROXIDE • HYDROCHLORIC ACID [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
