Rx only DESCRIPTION Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each mL contains Active : Tobramycin 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) .
Inactives : Boric Acid , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Tyloxapol and Purified Water .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Sulfuric Acid ( to adjust pH ) .
Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % has a pH range between 7 . 0 and 8 . 0 .
Preservative Added : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular weight : 467 . 52 Molecular formula : C 18 H 37 N 5 O 9 Chemical name : ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 S , 5 S , 6 R ) - 4 - amino - 2 - [ ( 1 S , 2 S , 3 R , 4 S , 6 R ) - 4 , 6 - diamino - 3 - [ ( 2 R , 3 R , 5 S , 6 R ) - 3 - amino - 6 - ( aminomethyl ) - 5 - hydroxyoxan - 2 - yl ] oxy - 2 - hydroxycyclohexyl ] oxy - 6 - ( hydroxymethyl ) oxane - 3 , 5 - diol ; sulfuric acid [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A - beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY - NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
If a sensitivity reaction to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
Information For Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in three types of animals at doses up to thirty - three times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of two months has not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin .
Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy ; however , if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics , care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Clinically apparent signs and symptoms of an overdose of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % ( punctate keratitis , erythema , increased lacrimation , edema and lid itching ) may be similar to adverse reaction effects seen in some patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease , instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections , instill two drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY HOW SUPPLIED Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip and a white polypropylene cap in the following size : NDC 66267 - 936 - 05 Box of 5 mL Storage Store at 2 ° - 25 ° C ( 36 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised June 2017 Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9116805 ( folded ) 9116905 ( flat ) Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
