Rx Only For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Description Urea 40 % is a keratolytic emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram of Urea 40 % contains 40 % urea as an active ingredient , and the following inactive ingredients : Carbomer , Cetearyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Mineral Oil , Purified Water , White Petrolatum Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Urea gently dissolves the intracellular matrix which results in loosening of the horny layer of the skin and shedding of scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
Indications and Usage For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
Contraindications Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
Warnings For topical use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
Precautions This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
PREGNANCY : Pregnancy Category B . Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus , however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , Urea 40 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Urea 40 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Adverse Reactions Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the medication .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Dosage and Administration Apply Urea 40 % to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by your physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Apply to diseased or damaged nail ( s ) twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
How Supplied Urea 40 % Cream 1 oz .
tube ( 28 . 35 g ) NDC 50268 - 872 - 28 Store at room temperature 15 째 C - 30 째 C ( 59 째 F - 86 째 F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : AvKARE Pulaski , TN 38478 AV Rev . 6 / 22 Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
