FOR ALL GENERAL IRRIGATION , WASHING AND RINSING PURPOSES Not For Injection By Usual Parenteral Routes Semi - rigid Irrigation Container Rx only DESCRIPTION These products are sterile , nonpyrogenic solutions of electrolytes in water for injection intended only for sterile irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes .
Each 100 mL of Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP contains : Sodium chloride 860 mg ; potassium chloride 30 mg ; calcium chloride dihydrate 33 mg .
The pH is 5 . 7 ( 5 . 0 — 7 . 5 ) .
The solution is isotonic ( 309 mOsmol / liter , calc . )
and has the following electrolyte content ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 147 . 5 ; K + 4 ; Ca + + 4 . 5 ; Cl − 156 .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as single - dose or short procedure irrigation .
When smaller volumes are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP may be classified as a sterile irrigant , wash , rinse and pharmaceutical vehicle .
Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride dihydrate ( CaCl2 • 2H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The semi - rigid container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP exerts a mechanical cleansing action for sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters and surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP provides an isotonic irrigation with the same ionic constituents as Ringer ’ s Injection , USP , a modification of Ringer ’ s solution ( also called Ringer ’ s mixture ) originally used only as a topical physiologic salt solution .
Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP is considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs .
Calcium Chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl − ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP is indicated for all general irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR INJECTION BY USUAL PARENTERAL ROUTES .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes ; thus this irrigation must be regarded as a systemic drug .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
Do not heat over 66 ° C ( 150 ° F ) .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption into the blood .
Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to “ dwell ” inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
Aseptic technique is essential with the use of sterile solutions for irrigation of body cavities , wounds and urethral catheters or for wetting dressings that come in contact with body tissues .
When used as a “ pour ” irrigation , no part of the contents should be allowed to contact the surface below the outer protected thread area of the semi - rigid wide mouth container .
When used for irrigation via irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start - up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , seal is intact and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP .
It is also not known whether Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Ringer ’ s Irrigation have not been performed to determine whether patients over 65 years respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distention or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
Should any adverse reaction occur , discontinue the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the capacity or surface area of the structure to be irrigated and the nature of the procedure .
When used as a vehicle for other drugs , the manufacturer ’ s recommendations should be followed .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution container permits .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Ringer ’ s Irrigation , USP is supplied in a single - dose 1000 mL semi - rigid irrigation container ( NDC No . 0409 – 6140 – 09 ; NDC No . 0990 - 6140 - 09 ) .
ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : July , 2020 EN - 5962 Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bottle Label 1000 mL Rx only NDC 0990 - 6140 - 09 Ringer ' s Irrigation , USP 100 mL contains sodium chloride , 860 mg ; potassium chloride 30 mg ; calcium chloride , dihydrate 33 mg .
309 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
.
pH 5 . 7 ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Not for injection .
Use only if clear and seal intact .
Warnings : Do not heat bottle over 66 ° C ( 150 ° F ) .
Recommended storage : Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
See insert .
Single - dose container .
Contains no bacteriostat .
Discard unused portion .
Usual dosage : See insert .
AQUALITE ™ SYSTEM Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 USA icumedical RL - 7292 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
