DESCRIPTION Targretin ® ( bexarotene ) gel 1 % contains bexarotene and is intended for topical application only .
Bexarotene is a member of a subclass of retinoids that selectively activate retinoid X receptors ( RXRs ) .
These retinoid receptors have biologic activity distinct from that of retinoic acid receptors ( RARs ) .
The chemical name is 4 - [ 1 - ( 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydro - 3 , 5 , 5 , 8 , 8 - pentamethyl - 2 - naphthalenyl ) ethenyl ] benzoic acid , and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bexarotene is an off - white to white powder with a molecular weight of 348 . 48 and a molecular formula of C24H28O2 .
It is insoluble in water and slightly soluble in vegetable oils and ethanol , USP .
Targretin ® gel is a clear gelled solution containing 1 . 0 % ( w / w ) bexarotene in a base of dehydrated alcohol , USP , polyethylene glycol 400 , NF , hydroxypropyl cellulose , NF , and butylated hydroxytoluene , NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Bexarotene selectively binds and activates retinoid X receptor subtypes ( RXRα , RXRβ , RXRγ ) .
RXRs can form heterodimers with various receptor partners such as retinoic acid receptors ( RARs ) , vitamin D receptor , thyroid receptor , and peroxisome proliferator activator receptors ( PPARs ) .
Once activated , these receptors function as transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes that control cellular differentiation and proliferation .
Bexarotene inhibits the growth in vitro of some tumor cell lines of hematopoietic and squamous cell origin .
It also induces tumor regression in vivo in some animal models .
The exact mechanism of action of bexarotene in the treatment of cutaneous T - cell lymphoma ( CTCL ) is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics General Plasma concentrations of bexarotene were determined during clinical studies in patients with CTCL or following repeated single or multiple - daily dose applications of Targretin ® gel 1 % for up to 132 weeks .
Plasma bexarotene concentrations were generally less than 5 ng / mL and did not exceed 55 ng / mL .
However , only two patients with very intense dosing regimens ( > 40 % BSA lesions and QID dosing ) were sampled .
Plasma bexarotene concentrations and the frequency of detecting quantifiable plasma bexarotene concentrations increased with increasing percent body surface area treated and increasing quantity of Targretin ® gel applied .
The sporadically - observed and generally low plasma bexarotene concentrations indicated that , in patients receiving doses of low to moderate intensity , there is a low potential for significant plasma concentrations following repeated application of Targretin ® gel .
Bexarotene is highly bound ( > 99 % ) to plasma proteins .
The plasma proteins to which bexarotene binds have not been elucidated , and the ability of bexarotene to displace drugs bound to plasma proteins and the ability of drugs to displace bexarotene binding have not been studied ( see PRECAUTIONS : Protein Binding ) .
The uptake of bexarotene by organs or tissues has not been evaluated .
Metabolism Four bexarotene metabolites have been identified in plasma following oral administration of bexarotene : 6 - and 7 - hydroxy - bexarotene and 6 - and 7 - oxo - bexarotene .
In vitro studies suggest that cytochrome P450 3A4 is the major cytochrome P450 responsible for formation of the oxidative metabolites and that the oxidative metabolites may be glucuronidated .
The oxidative metabolites are active in in vitro assays of retinoid receptor activation , but the relative contribution of the parent and any metabolites to the efficacy and safety of Targretin ® gel is unknown .
Elimination The renal elimination of bexarotene and its metabolites was examined in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus following oral administration of bexarotene .
Neither bexarotene nor its metabolites were excreted in urine in appreciable amounts .
Special Populations Elderly , Gender , Race : Because of a large number of immeasurable plasma concentrations ( < 1 ng / mL ) , any potential pharmacokinetic differences between Special Populations could not be assessed .
Pediatric : Studies to evaluate bexarotene pharmacokinetics in the pediatric population have not been conducted ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
Renal Insufficiency : No formal studies have been conducted with Targretin ® gel in patients with renal insufficiency .
Urinary elimination of bexarotene and its known metabolites is a minor excretory pathway ( < 1 % of an orally administered dose ) , but because renal insufficiency can result in significant protein binding changes , pharmacokinetics may be altered in patients with renal insufficiency ( seePRECAUTIONS : Renal Insufficiency ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency : No specific studies have been conducted with Targretin ® gel in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Because less than 1 % of the dose of oral bexarotene is excreted in the urine unchanged and there is in vitro evidence of extensive hepatic contribution to bexarotene elimination , hepatic impairment would be expected to lead to greatly decreased clearance ( see PRECAUTIONS : Hepatic Insufficiency ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions No formal studies to evaluate drug interactions with bexarotene or Targretin ® gel have been conducted .
Bexarotene oxidative metabolites appear to be formed through cytochrome P450 3A4 .
Drugs that affect levels or activity of cytochrome P450 3A4 may potentially affect the disposition of bexarotene .
Concomitant gemfibrozil was associated with increased bexarotene concentrations following oral administration of bexarotene .
Clinical Studies Targretin ® gel was evaluated for the treatment of patients with early stage ( Stage IA - IIA ) CTCL in one multicenter , open - label , clinical trial as well as in a Phase I - II program ( dose - seeking trials with different response criteria than the multicenter trial ) .
These clinical studies enrolled a total of 117 patients .
In the multicenter , open - label clinical trial , Targretin ® gel was evaluated for the treatment of patients with early stage CTCL who were refractory to , intolerant to , or reached a response plateau for at least six months on at least two prior therapies .
The study was conducted in the U . S . , Canada , Europe , and Australia and enrolled a total of 50 patients ; 46 % of these patients were male , 80 % were Caucasian , and the median age was 64 years ( range 13 to 85 ) .
Targretin ® gel was also evaluated for the treatment of patients with CTCL in a U . S . Phase I - II program involving patients with early stage CTCL .
This program enrolled a total of 67 patients ; 55 % of these patients were male , 85 % were Caucasian , and the median age was 61 years ( range 30 to 87 ) .
In the multicenter , open - label clinical trial , considering prior systemic , irradiation , and topical treatments , patients had been exposed to a median of 3 prior therapies ( range 2 - 7 ) .
All patients failed at least two treatments ; the majority ( 68 % ) of patients were either refractory to two or more therapies , or were refractory to one therapy and intolerant to at least one therapy .
Patients were treated with Targretin ® gel 1 % for a planned 16 - week period with an option to continue provided that no unacceptable toxicity was occurring .
Tumor response was assessed in the multicenter study by observation of up to five baseline - defined index lesions using a Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity ( CA ) .
This endpoint was based on a summation of the grades , for all index lesions , of erythema , scaling , plaque elevation , hypopigmentation or hyperpigmentation , and area of involvement .
New cutaneous lesions or tumors and extracutaneous disease manifestations were not considered in response or disease progression assessments .
All tumor responses required confirmation over at least two assessments separated by at least four weeks .
A partial response was defined as an improvement of at least 50 % in the index lesions .
A complete clinical response required complete disappearance of the index lesions , but did not require confirmation by biopsy .
Targretin ® gel produced an overall response rate of 26 % ( 13 / 50 ) with a corresponding exact 95 % confidence interval from 14 . 6 % to 40 . 3 % by the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity .
For the Stage IA and IB patients , the response rate was 28 % ( 13 / 47 ) with a corresponding exact 95 % confidence interval from 15 . 6 % to 42 . 6 % .
For the Stage II patients the response rate was 0 % ( 0 / 3 ) .
Two percent of patients ( 1 / 50 ) had a clinical complete response .
The median time to best response on the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity ( n = 13 ) was 85 days ( range : 36 - 154 ) .
The rate of relapse in responding patients by the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity was 23 % ( 3 / 13 ) over a median observation period of 149 days ( range 56 - 342 ) .
Fourteen patients developed new lesions in untreated areas ( 14 / 50 ; 28 % ) .
Four patients developed clinically abnormal lymph nodes ( ≥ 1 cm diam ) ( 4 / 50 ; 8 % ) .
One patient developed a cutaneous tumor ( 1 / 50 ; 2 % ) .
The Phase I - II program ( dose - seeking trials with different response criteria than the multicenter trial ) was supportive of the multicenter study results .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Targretin ® ( bexarotene ) gel 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of cutaneous lesions in patients with CTCL ( Stage IA and IB ) who have refractory or persistent disease after other therapies or who have not tolerated other therapies .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Targretin ® gel 1 % is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to bexarotene or other components of the product .
Pregnancy : Category X Targretin ® gel 1 % may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Targretin ® gel must not be given to a pregnant woman or a woman who intends to become pregnant .
If a woman becomes pregnant while taking Targretin ® gel , Targretin ® gel must be stopped immediately and the woman given appropriate counseling .
Bexarotene caused malformations when administered orally to pregnant rats during days 7 - 17 of gestation .
Developmental abnormalities included incomplete ossification at 4 mg / kg / day and cleft palate , depressed eye bulge / microphthalmia , and small ears at 16 mg / kg / day .
At doses greater than 10 mg / kg / day , bexarotene caused developmental mortality .
The no - effect oral dose in rats was 1 mg / kg / day .
Plasma bexarotene concentrations in patients with CTCL applying Targretin ® gel 1 % were generally less than one hundredth the Cmax associated with dysmorphogenesis in rats , although some patients had Cmax levels that were approximately one eighth the concentration associated with dysmorphogenesis in rats .
Women of child - bearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant when Targretin ® gel is used .
The possibility that a woman of child - bearing potential is pregnant at the time therapy is instituted should be considered .
A negative pregnancy test ( e . g . , serum beta - human chorionic gonadotropin , beta - HCG ) with a sensitivity of at least 50 mIU / L should be obtained within one week prior to Targretin ® gel therapy , and the pregnancy test must be repeated at monthly intervals while the patient remains on Targretin ® gel .
Effective contraception must be used for one month prior to the initiation of therapy , during therapy and for at least one month following discontinuation of therapy ; it is recommended that two reliable forms of contraception be used simultaneously unless abstinence is the chosen method .
Male patients with sexual partners who are pregnant , possibly pregnant , or who could become pregnant must use condoms during sexual intercourse while applying Targretin ® gel and for at least one month after the last dose of drug .
Targretin ® gel therapy should be initiated on the second or third day of a normal menstrual period .
No more than a one month supply of Targretin ® gel should be given to the patient so that the results of pregnancy testing can be assessed and counseling regarding avoidance of pregnancy and birth defects can be reinforced .
PRECAUTIONS Pregnancy : Category X . See CONTRAINDICATIONS General : Targretin ® gel should be used with caution in patients with a known hypersensitivity to other retinoids .
No clinical instances of cross - reactivity have been noted .
Vitamin A Supplementation : In clinical studies , patients were advised to limit vitamin A intake to ≤ 15 , 000 IU / day .
Because of the relationship of bexarotene to vitamin A , patients should be advised to limit vitamin A supplements to avoid potential additive toxic effects .
Photosensitivity : Retinoids as a class have been associated with photosensitivity .
In vitro assays indicate that bexarotene is a potential photosensitizing agent .
There were no reports of photosensitivity in patients in the clinical studies .
Patients should be advised to minimize exposure to sunlight and artificial ultraviolet light during the use of Targretin ® gel .
Drug - Drug Interactions Patients who are applying Targretin ® gel should not concurrently use products that contain DEET ( N , N - diethyl - m - toluamide ) , a common component of insect repellent products .
An animal toxicology study showed increased DEET toxicity when DEET was included as part of the formulation .
No formal studies to evaluate drug interactions with bexarotene have been conducted .
Bexarotene oxidative metabolites appear to be formed through cytochrome P450 3A4 .
On the basis of the metabolism of bexarotene by cytochrome P450 3A4 , concomitant ketoconazole , itraconazole , erythromycin and grapefruit juice could increase bexarotene plasma concentrations .
Similarly , based on data that gemfibrozil increases bexarotene concentrations following oral bexarotene administration , concomitant gemfibrozil could increase bexarotene plasma concentrations .
However , due to the low systemic exposure to bexarotene after low to moderately intense gel regimens ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) , increases that occur are unlikely to be of sufficient magnitude to result in adverse effects .
No drug interaction data are available on concomitant administration of Targretin ® gel and other CTCL therapies .
Renal Insufficiency No formal studies have been conducted with Targretin ® gel in patients with renal insufficiency .
Urinary elimination of bexarotene and its known metabolites is a minor excretory pathway for bexarotene ( < 1 % of an orally administered dose ) , but because renal insufficiency can result in significant protein binding changes , and bexarotene is > 99 % protein bound , pharmacokinetics may be altered in patients with renal insufficiency .
Hepatic Insufficiency No specific studies have been conducted with Targretin ® gel in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Because less than 1 % of the dose of oral bexarotene is excreted in the urine unchanged and there isin vitro evidence of extensive hepatic contribution to bexarotene elimination , hepatic impairment would be expected to lead to greatly decreased clearance .
Protein Binding Bexarotene is highly bound ( > 99 % ) to plasma proteins .
The plasma proteins to which bexarotene binds have not been elucidated , and the ability of bexarotene to displace drugs bound to plasma proteins and the ability of drugs to displace bexarotene binding have not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to assess the carcinogenic potential of bexarotene have not been conducted .
Bexarotene was not mutagenic to bacteria ( Ames assay ) or mammalian cells ( mouse lymphoma assay ) .
Bexarotene was not clastogenic in vivo ( micronucleus test in mice ) .
No formal fertility studies were conducted with bexarotene .
Bexarotene caused testicular degeneration when oral doses of 1 . 5 mg / kg / day were given to dogs for 91 days .
Use in Nursing Mothers It is not known whether bexarotene is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from bexarotene , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the total patients with CTCL in clinical studies of Targretin ® gel , 62 % were under 65 years and 38 % were 65 years or older .
No overall differences in safety were observed between patients 65 years of age or older and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals to Targretin ® gel cannot be ruled out .
Responses to Targretin ® gel were observed across all age group decades , without preference for any individual age group decade .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Targretin ® gel has been assessed in clinical studies of 117 patients with CTCL who received Targretin ® gel for up to 172 weeks .
In the multicenter open label study , 50 patients with CTCL received Targretin ® gel for up to 98 weeks .
The mean duration of therapy for these 50 patients was 199 days .
The most common adverse events reported with an incidence at the application site of at least 10 % in patients with CTCL were rash , pruritus , skin disorder , and pain .
Adverse events leading to dose reduction or study drug discontinuation in at least two patients were rash , contact dermatitis , and pruritus .
Of the 49 patients ( 98 % ) who experienced any adverse event , most experienced events categorized as mild ( 9 patients , 18 % ) or moderate ( 27 patients , 54 % ) .
There were 12 patients ( 24 % ) who experienced at least one moderately severe adverse event .
The most common moderately severe events were rash ( 7 patients , 14 % ) and pruritus ( 3 patients , 6 % ) .
Only one patient ( 2 % ) experienced a severe adverse event ( rash ) .
In the patients with CTCL receiving Targretin ® gel , adverse events reported regardless of relationship to study drug at an incidence of ≥ 5 % are presented in Table 1 .
A similar safety profile for Targretin ® gel was demonstrated in the Phase I - II program .
For the 67 patients enrolled in the Phase I - II program , the mean duration of treatment was 436 days ( range 12 - 1203 days ) .
As in the multicenter study , the most common adverse events regardless of relationship to study drug in the Phase I - II program were rash ( 78 % ) , pain ( 40 % ) , and pruritus ( 40 % ) .
Table 1 .
Incidence of All Adverse Events * and Application Site Adverse Events with Incidence ≥ 5 % for All Application Frequencies of Targretin ® Gel in the Multicenter CTCL Study All Adverse Events Application Site Adverse Events COSTART 5 Body System / Preferred Term N = 50 n ( % ) N = 50 n ( % ) * Regardless of association with treatment Includes Investigator terms such as : 1 Contact dermatitis , irritant contact dermatitis , irritant dermatitis 2 Pruritus , itching , itching of lesion 3 Erythema , scaling , irritation , redness , rash , dermatitis 4 Skin inflammation , excoriation , sticky or tacky sensation of skin ; NOS = Not Otherwise Specified Skin and Appendages Contact Dermatitis1 7 ( 14 ) 4 ( 8 ) Exfoliative Dermatitis 3 ( 6 ) 0 Pruritus2 18 ( 36 ) 9 ( 18 ) Rash3 36 ( 72 ) 28 ( 56 ) Maculopapular Rash 3 ( 6 ) 0 Skin Disorder ( NOS ) 4 13 ( 26 ) 9 ( 18 ) Sweating 3 ( 6 ) 0 Body as a Whole Asthenia 3 ( 6 ) 0 Headache 7 ( 14 ) 0 Infection 9 ( 18 ) 0 Pain 15 ( 30 ) 9 ( 18 ) Cardiovascular Edema 5 ( 10 ) 0 Peripheral Edema 3 ( 6 ) 0 Hemic and Lymphatic Leukopenia 3 ( 6 ) 0 Lymphadenopathy 3 ( 6 ) 0 WBC Abnormal 3 ( 6 ) 0 Metabolic and Nutritional Hyperlipemia 5 ( 10 ) 0 Nervous Paresthesia 3 ( 6 ) 3 ( 6 ) Respiratory Cough Increased 3 ( 6 ) 0 Pharyngitis 3 ( 6 ) 0 OVERDOSAGE Systemic toxicity following acute overdosage with topical application of Targretin ® gel is unlikely because of low systemic plasma levels observed with normal therapeutic doses .
There is no specific antidote for overdosage .
There has been no experience with acute overdose of Targretin ® gel in humans .
Any overdose with Targretin ® gel should be treated with supportive care for the signs and symptoms exhibited by the patient .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Targretin ® gel should be initially applied once every other day for the first week .
The application frequency should be increased at weekly intervals to once daily , then twice daily , then three times daily and finally four times daily according to individual lesion tolerance .
Generally , patients were able to maintain a dosing frequency of two to four times per day .
Most responses were seen at dosing frequencies of two times per day and higher .
If application site toxicity occurs , the application frequency can be reduced .
Should severe irritation occur , application of drug can be temporarily discontinued for a few days until the symptoms subside .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS : Pregnancy : Category X . Sufficient gel should be applied to cover the lesion with a generous coating .
The gel should be allowed to dry before covering with clothing .
Because unaffected skin may become irritated , application of the gel to normal skin surrounding the lesions should be avoided .
In addition , do not apply the gel near mucosal surfaces of the body .
A response may be seen as soon as 4 weeks after initiation of therapy but most patients require longer application .
With continued application , further benefit may be attained .
The longest onset time for the first response among the responders was 392 days based on the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity in the multicenter study .
In clinical trials , Targretin ® gel was applied for up to 172 weeks .
Targretin ® gel should be continued as long as the patient is deriving benefit .
Occlusive dressings should not be used with Targretin ® gel .
Targretin ® gel is a topical therapy and is not intended for systemic use .
Targretin ® gel has not been studied in combination with other CTCL therapies .
HOW SUPPLIED Targretin ® gel is supplied in tubes containing 60 g ( 600 mg active bexarotene ) .
60 g tube ............................................................................................. NDC 64365 - 504 - 01 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; with excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Avoid exposing to high temperatures and humidity after the tube is opened .
Protect from light .
Manufactured for : Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated San Diego , CA 92121 by : Bristol - Myers Squibb Company Princeton , NJ 08543 USA Ligand Part # 3000204 ( Rev . 0101 )
