WARNING WARNING : Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure , at times resulting in liver transplant and death .
Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4 , 000 milligrams per day , and often involve more than one acetaminophen - containing product .
DESCRIPTION Each Butalbital and Acetaminophen 50 mg / 325 mg tablet for oral administration contains : Butalbital , USP … … … ... … ..
50 mg Acetaminophen , USP … … .
325 mg Each Butalbital and Acetaminophen 25 mg / 325 mg tablet for oral administration contains : Butalbital , USP … … … ... … ..
25 mg Acetaminophen , USP … … .
325 mg Each ALLZITAL ( butalbital and acetaminophen 25 mg / 325 mg ) tablet for oral administration contains : Butalbital , USP … … … ... … ..
25 mg Acetaminophen , USP … … .
325 mg In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , and stearic acid .
Butalbital ( 5 - allyl - 5 - isobutylbarbituric acid ) , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a short to intermediate - acting barbiturate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 11 H 16 N 2 O 3 M . W . = 224 . 26 Acetaminophen ( 4 ' - hydroxyacetanilide ) , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 8 H 9 NO 2 M . W . = 151 . 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This combination drug product is intended as a treatment for tension headache .
It consists of a fixed combination of butalbital and acetaminophen .
The role each component plays in the relief of the complex of symptoms known as tension headache is incompletely understood .
Pharmacokinetics : The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Butalbital : Butalbital is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is expected to distribute to most tissues in the body .
Barbiturates in general may appear in breast milk and readily cross the placental barrier .
They are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree and binding increases directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Elimination of butalbital is primarily via the kidney ( 59 % to 88 % of the dose ) as unchanged drug or metabolites .
The plasma half - life is about 35 hours .
Urinary excretion products include parent drug ( about 3 . 6 % of the dose ) , 5 - isobutyl - 5 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxy - propyl ) barbituric acid ( about 24 % of the dose ) , 5 - allyl - 5 ( 3 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 - propyl ) barbituric acid ( about 4 . 8 % of the dose ) , products with the barbituric acid ring hydrolyzed with excretion of urea ( about 14 % of the dose ) , as well as unidentified materials .
Of the material excreted in the urine , 32 % is conjugated .
The in vitro plasma protein binding of butalbital is 45 % over the concentration range of 0 . 5 to 20 mcg / mL .
This falls within the range of plasma protein binding ( 20 % to 45 % ) reported with other barbiturates such as phenobarbital , pentobarbital , and secobarbital sodium .
The plasma - to - blood concentration ratio was almost unity indicating that there is no preferential distribution of butalbital into either plasma or blood cells See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Acetaminophen : Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital and Acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension ( or muscle contraction ) headache .
Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of this combination product in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable .
Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions : • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product .
• Patients with porphyria .
WARNINGS Butalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
Consequently , the extended use of this product is not recommended .
Hepatotoxicity : Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure , at times resulting in liver transplant and death .
Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day , and often involve more than one acetaminophen - containing product .
The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self - harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen - containing products .
The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen .
Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day , even if they feel well .
Serious Skin Reactions : Rarely , acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions , and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
Hypersensitivity / anaphylaxis : There have been post - marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen .
Clinical signs included swelling of the face , mouth , and throat , respiratory distress , urticaria , rash , pruritus , and vomiting .
There were infrequent reports of life - threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention .
Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital and Acetaminophen tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms .
Do not prescribe Butalbital and Acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy .
PRECAUTIONS General : Butalbital and Acetaminophen tablets should be prescribed with caution in certain special - risk patients , such as the elderly or debilitated , and those with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function , or acute abdominal conditions .
Information for Patients / Caregivers : • Do not take Butalbital and Acetaminophen tablets if you are allergic to any of the ingredients .
• If you develop signs of allergy such as a rash or difficulty breathing stop taking butalbital and acetaminophen and contact your healthcare provider immediately .
• Do not take more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day .
Call your doctor if you took more than the recommended dose .
This product may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Such tasks should be avoided while taking this product .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression , when taken with this combination product , and should be avoided .
Butalbital may be habit - forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Laboratory Tests : In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug Interactions : The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
Butalbital and acetaminophen may enhance the effects of : other narcotic analgesics , alcohol , general anesthetics , tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide , sedative - hypnotics , or other CNS depressants , causing increased CNS depression .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Acetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen or butalbital have a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Teratogenic Effects : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this combination product .
It is also not known whether butalbital and acetaminophen can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
These products should be given to a pregnant woman only when clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Withdrawal seizures were reported in a two - day - old male infant whose mother had taken a butalbital containing drug during the last two months of pregnancy .
Butalbital was found in the infant ' s serum .
The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg / kg , which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms .
Nursing Mothers : Barbiturates and acetaminophen are excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from butalbital and acetaminophen , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of butalbital and acetaminophen tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Butalbital is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed : The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness , lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and intoxicated feeling .
Infrequently Observed : All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent .
Central Nervous System : headache , shaky feeling , tingling , agitation , fainting , fatigue , heavy eyelids , high energy , hot spells , numbness , sluggishness , seizure .
Mental confusion , excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance , particularly in elderly or debilitated patients , or due to overdosage of butalbital .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , hyperhidrosis .
Gastrointestinal : difficulty swallowing , heartburn , flatulence , constipation .
Cardiovascular : tachycardia .
Musculoskeletal : leg pain , muscle fatigue .
Genitourinary : diuresis .
Miscellaneous : pruritus , fever , earache , nasal congestion , tinnitus , euphoria , allergic reactions .
Several cases of dermatological reactions , including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme , have been reported .
The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of this product .
Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section .
Acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Larken Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 601 - 855 - 7678 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Abuse and Dependence : Butalbital : Barbiturates may be habit - forming : Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1500 mg .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than two - fold .
As this occurs , the margin between an intoxication dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of these drugs .
Intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
One method involves initiating treatment at the patient ' s regular dosage level and gradually decreasing the daily dosage as tolerated by the patient .
OVERDOSAGE Following an acute overdosage , toxicity may result from the barbiturate or the acetaminophen .
Signs and Symptoms : Toxicity from barbiturate poisoning includes drowsiness , confusion , and coma ; respiratory depression ; hypotension ; and hypovolemic shock .
In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma and coagulation defects may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
Treatment : A single or multiple drug overdose with butalbital and acetaminophen is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Assisted or controlled ventilation should also be considered .
Gastric decontamination with activated charcoal should be administered just prior to N - acetylcysteine ( NAC ) to decrease systemic absorption if acetaminophen ingestion is known or suspected to have occurred within a few hours of presentation .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained immediately if the patient presents 4 hours or more after ingestion to assess potential risk of hepatotoxicity ; acetaminophen levels drawn less than 4 hours post - ingestion may be misleading .
To obtain the best possible outcome , NAC should be administered as soon as possible where impending or evolving liver injury is suspected .
Intravenous NAC may be administered when circumstances preclude oral administration .
Vigorous supportive therapy is required in severe intoxication .
Procedures to limit the continuing absorption of the drug must be readily performed since the hepatic injury is dose dependent and occurs early in the course of intoxication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Butalbital and Acetaminophen , 50 mg / 325 mg tablets : One or two tablets every four hours as needed .
Do not exceed not exceed 6 tablets per day .
Butalbital and Acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg tablets : Two tablets every four hours .
Total daily dosage should not exceed 12 tablets .
ALLZITAL ( butalbital and acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg ) : Two tablets every four hours .
Total daily dosage should not exceed 12 tablets .
Extended and repeated use of these products is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence .
HOW SUPPLIED Butalbital and Acetaminophen , 50 mg / 325 mg : White , capsule shaped tablet debossed “ LL 721 ” on one side and plain on the other , in bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 68047 - 721 - 30 ) , and 100 tablets ( NDC 68047 - 721 - 01 ) .
Butalbital and Acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg : White , capsule shaped tablet debossed “ LL 722 ” on one side and plain on the other , in bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 68047 - 753 - 30 ) and 100 tablets ( NDC 68047 - 753 - 01 ) .
ALLZITAL ( butalbital and acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg ) : White , capsule shaped tablet debossed “ LL 722 ” on one side and plain on the other , in bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 68047 - 752 - 30 ) and 100 tablets ( NDC 68047 - 752 - 01 ) .
Storage : Protect from light and moisture .
Store Butalbital and Acetaminophen tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
Distributed by : Larken Laboratories , Inc .
Canton , MS 39046 www . larkenlabs . com Rev . 06 / 2022 500411 - 07 CONTAINER LABELS [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68047 - 721 - 01 Butalbital and Acetaminophen 50 mg / 325 mg tablets Each white capsule shaped tablet debossed “ LL 721 ” on one side and plain on the other side contains : Butalbital , USP 50 mg Acetaminophen , USP 325 mg Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68047 - 753 - 01 Butalbital and Acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 mg tablets Each white capsule shaped tablet debossed “ LL 722 ” on one side and plain on the other side contains : Butalbital , USP 25 mg Acetaminophen , USP 325 mg Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68047 - 752 - 01 ALLZITAL ( butalbital and acetaminophen , 25 mg / 325 ) mg tablets Each white capsule shaped tablet debossed “ LL 722 ” on one side and plain on the other side contains : Butalbital , USP 25 mg Acetaminophen , USP 325 mg Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ]
