Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each caplet ) Calcium polycarbophil 625 mg ( equivalent to polycarbophil 500 mg ) Purpose Bulk - forming laxative Uses  relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity )  generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours Choking : Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting , or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention .
Ask a doctor before use if you have  abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting  a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product two or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
When using this product  do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor  do not take more than 8 caplets in a 24 - hour period unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if  you fail to have a bowel movement after use or have rectal bleeding .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions  take this product ( child or adult dose ) with a full glass of water ( 8 oz . )
or other fluid .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
See choking warning .
 dosage will vary according to diet , exercise , previous laxative use or severity of constipation  continued use for 1 to 3 days is normally required to provide full benefit adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets , 1 to 4 times per day children under 12 years ask a doctor Other information  each caplet contains : calcium 140 mg  do not use if printed seal under cap is torn or missing  store in a dry place at 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F )  protect contents from moisture Caramel , crospovidone , hypromellose , magnesium silicate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , mineral oil , polyethylene glycol , silica , sodium lauryl sulfate and stearic acid Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 231 - 4670 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by GlaxoSmithKline , owner of the registered trademark Fibercon ® .
© 2020 Cardinal Health .
All Rights Reserved .
CARDINAL HEALTH , the Cardinal Health LOGO , LEADER , and the Leader LOGO are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cardinal Health .
All other marks are the property of their respective owners .
DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 WARNING : This product can expose you to chemicals including lead , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm .
For more information go to www . P65Warnings . ca . gov .
LEADER NDC 70000 - 0067 - 1 Fiber Laxative + Calcium Calcium Polycarbophil , 625 mg Bulk - Forming Laxative Fiber Therapy for Regularity COMPARE TO FIBERCON ® active ingredient * 250 Caplets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
