RX ONLY FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY : NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - benzendiol , with a chemical formula of C6H6O2 and a molecular weight of 110 . 11 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of MELAMIN - C ™ ( Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ) Skin Bleaching & Correcting Crème with 20 % Vitamin C contains Hydroquinone USP 40 mg / gm in a base of ascorbic acid , ascorbyl palmitate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , caprylyl methicone , cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 dimethicone , cyclotetrasiloxane , dimethicone , dimethicone crosspolymer , tocopheryl acetate , ethoxydiglycol , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , oleyl alcohol , pluenetia volubilis seed oil , retinyl palmitate , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf extract , squalene , tocopherol , zanthoxylum bungeanum fruit extract .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause re - pigmentation of bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of the sunscreen agents .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as cholasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to hydroquinone or to any other ingredient in this product .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 21 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent which may produce undesired effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this product .
Avoid unnecessary sun exposure , use an effective broad - spectrum sunscreen agent or protective clothing should be worn to cover bleached skin to prevent re - pigmentation from occurring .
Hydroquinone may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin .
If his condition occurs , discontinue treatment and consult your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , call a physician or a poison control center immediately .
PRECAUTIONS Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin ; check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Drug Interactions Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of hydroquinone in animals have demonstrated some evidence of carcinogenicity .
The carcinogenic potential of hydroquinone in humans is unknown .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether topical hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Topical hydroquinone should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when topical hydroquinone is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness for pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Adverse Reactions The following reactions have been reported : dryness and fissuring of paranasal and infraorbital areas , erythema , and stinging .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may develop .
If this occurs , the medication should be discontinued , and the physician notified immediately .
Overdosage There have been no system reactions reported from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time , since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
DRUG DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin layer of MELAMIN - C ™ ( Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ) Skin Bleaching & Correcting Crème with 20 % vitamin C should be applied to the affected area twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after 8 - 12 weeks of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
There is no recommended dosage for pediatric patients under 12 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED MELAMIN - C ™ ( Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ) Skin Bleaching & Correcting Crème with 20 % Vitamin C is available as follows : 2 . 99 Oz .
( 85 g ) Bottle / NDC 42851 - 034 - 85 1 . 19 Oz .
( 34 g ) Bottle / NDC 42851 - 034 - 34 STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 85 g Bottle Carton ZO ® MEDICAL BY ZEIN OBAGI MD NDC 42851 - 034 - 85 MELAMIN - C ™ Skin Bleaching & Correcting Crème with 20 % Vitamin C Hydroquinone USP , 4 % RX ONLY Net Wt .
85 g / 2 . 99 Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
