Active Ingredients Homosalate 9 . 0 % , Octisalate 3 . 0 % , Octocrylene 6 . 0 % , Zinc Oxide 7 . 3 % .
Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
May stain some fabrics .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing it • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Shake well .
Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply .
Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face • Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Inactive ingredients Water , Isododecane , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Caprylic / Capric , Triglyceride , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Sodium Citrate .
Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SafeSun , Mon - Fri Principal Display Panel BANANA BOAT ( R ) NEW !
baby mineral enriched SUNSCREEN LOTION SPRAY UVA / UVB PROTECTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + 50 + PEDIATRICIAN TESTED Wo n't Run Into Eyes Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) FREE FROM Oxybenzone Octinoxate Parabens Phthalates SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE NET WT 5 FL OZ ( 147 ML ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
