Warnings and Precautions , Major Adverse Cardiac Events ( 5 . 6 ) 11 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions , Thrombosis ( 5 . 7 ) 11 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions , Secondary Malignancies ( 5 . 8 ) 11 / 2021 WARNING : ENCEPHALOPATHY INCLUDING WERNICKE ' S Serious and fatal encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s , has occurred in patients treated with INREBIC .
Wernicke ' s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency .
Assess thiamine levels in all patients prior to starting INREBIC , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
Do not start INREBIC in patients with thiamine deficiency ; replete thiamine prior to treatment initiation .
If encephalopathy is suspected , immediately discontinue INREBIC and initiate parenteral thiamine .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : ENCEPHALOPATHY INCLUDING WERNICKE ' S See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Serious and fatal encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s , has occurred in patients treated with INREBIC .
Wernicke ' s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency .
Assess thiamine levels in all patients prior to starting INREBIC , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
Do not start INREBIC in patients with thiamine deficiency ; replete thiamine prior to treatment initiation .
If encephalopathy is suspected , immediately discontinue INREBIC and initiate parenteral thiamine .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize .
( 2 . 6 , 5 . 1 , 6 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INREBIC ® is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate - 2 or high - risk primary or secondary ( post - polycythemia vera or post - essential thrombocythemia ) myelofibrosis ( MF ) .
INREBIC is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate - 2 or high - risk primary or secondary ( post - polycythemia vera or post - essential thrombocythemia ) myelofibrosis ( MF ) ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended Dosage : 400 mg orally once daily with or without food for patients with a baseline platelet count of greater than or equal to 50 × 109 / L ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • Reduce dose for patients taking strong CYP3A inhibitors or with severe renal impairment ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Conduct baseline testing of thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) levels prior to initiation of INREBIC [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The recommended dosage of INREBIC is 400 mg taken orally once daily for patients with a baseline platelet count of greater than or equal to 50 × 109 / L .
INREBIC may be taken with or without food .
Administration with a high fat meal may reduce the incidence of nausea and vomiting .
Modify the dose for patients using concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors , and in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) 15 mL / min to 29 mL / min ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
If a dose of INREBIC is missed , the next scheduled dose should be taken the following day .
Patients that are on treatment with ruxolitinib before the initiation of INREBIC must taper and discontinue according to the ruxolitinib prescribing information .
2 . 2 Monitoring for Safety Obtain the following blood tests prior to starting treatment with INREBIC , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] : • • Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) level • • Complete blood count with platelets • • Creatinine and BUN • • Hepatic panel • • Amylase and lipase 2 . 3 Dose Modifications with Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Reduce INREBIC dose when administering with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors to 200 mg once daily .
In cases where coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued , INREBIC dosage should be increased to 300 mg once daily during the first two weeks after discontinuation of the CYP3A4 inhibitor , and then to 400 mg once daily thereafter as tolerated [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dose Modifications for Severe Renal Impairment Reduce INREBIC dose to 200 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) 15 mL / min to 29 mL / min as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ( C - G ) equation ) .
2 . 5 Dose Modifications for Adverse Reactions Modify dose for hematologic and nonhematologic adverse reactions per Table 1 and Table 2 .
Discontinue INREBIC in patients unable to tolerate a dose of 200 mg daily .
See Warnings and Precautions for other mitigating strategies .
Table 1 : Dose Modifications for Hematologic Adverse ReactionsHematologic Adverse Reactions Dose Reduction Grade 4 Thrombocytopenia or Grade 3 Thrombocytopenia with active bleeding Interrupt dose until resolved to Grade 2 or lower or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose .
Grade 4 Neutropenia Interrupt dose until resolved to Grade 2 or lower or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose .
Consider dose reductions for patients who become transfusion - dependent during treatment with INREBIC .
Table 2 : Dose Reductions for Nonhematologic Adverse ReactionsNonhematologic Adverse Reactions Dose Reduction Grade 3 or higher Nausea , Vomiting , or Diarrhea not responding to supportive measures within 48 hours Interrupt dose until resolved to Grade 1 or lower or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose .
Grade 3 or higher ALT , AST , or Bilirubin Interrupt dose until resolved to Grade 1 or lower or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose .
Monitor ALT , AST , and bilirubin ( total and direct ) more frequently following the dose reduction .
If reoccurrence of a Grade 3 or higher elevation , discontinue treatment with INREBIC .
Grade 3 or higher Other Nonhematologic Toxicities Interrupt dose until resolved to Grade 1 or lower or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose .
2 . 6 Management of Thiamine Levels and Wernicke ' s Encephalopathy ( WE ) Assess thiamine levels and nutritional status prior to starting INREBIC and periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated .
Do not start INREBIC in patients with thiamine deficiency ; replete thiamine prior to treatment initiation and during treatment if thiamine levels are low .
If Wernicke ' s encephalopathy is suspected , immediately discontinue treatment with INREBIC and initiate parenteral thiamine treatment .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 100 mg , reddish brown , opaque size 0 , printed with " FEDR 100 mg " in white ink .
Capsules : 100 mg ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Anemia and Thrombocytopenia : Manage by dose reduction , interruption , or transfusion ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Gastrointestinal Toxicity : Manage by dose reduction or interruption if patient develops severe diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting .
Prophylaxis with antiemetics and treatment with antidiarrhea medications are recommended ( 5 . 3 ) .
• • Hepatic Toxicity : Manage by dose reduction or interruption ( 5 . 4 ) .
• • Amylase and Lipase Elevation : Manage by dose reduction or interruption ( 5 . 5 ) .
• • Major Adverse Cardiac Events ( MACE ) : Monitor for development of MACE ( 5 . 6 ) .
• • Thrombosis : Evaluate and treat symptoms of thrombosis promptly ( 5 . 7 ) .
• • Secondary Malignancies : Monitor for development of secondary malignancies , particularly in patients who are current or past smokers ( 5 . 8 ) .
5 . 1 Encephalopathy , Including Wernicke ' s Serious and fatal encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s encephalopathy , has occurred in INREBIC - treated patients .
Serious cases were reported in 1 . 3 % ( 8 / 608 ) of patients treated with INREBIC in clinical trials and 0 . 16 % ( 1 / 608 ) of cases were fatal .
Wernicke ' s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency resulting from thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) deficiency .
Signs and symptoms of Wernicke ' s encephalopathy may include ataxia , mental status changes , and ophthalmoplegia ( e . g . , nystagmus , diplopia ) .
Any change in mental status , confusion , or memory impairment should raise concern for potential encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s , and prompt a full evaluation including a neurologic examination , assessment of thiamine levels , and imaging .
Assess thiamine levels in all patients prior to starting INREBIC , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
Do not start INREBIC in patients with thiamine deficiency ; replete thiamine prior to treatment initiation .
If encephalopathy is suspected , immediately discontinue INREBIC and initiate parenteral thiamine .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) and Clinical Trials Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Anemia and Thrombocytopenia Treatment with INREBIC can cause anemia and thrombocytopenia .
Anemia New or worsening Grade 3 anemia occurred in 34 % of INREBIC - treated patients .
The median time to onset of the first Grade 3 anemia was approximately 2 months , with 75 % of cases occurring within 3 months .
Mean hemoglobin levels reached nadir after 12 to 16 weeks with partial recovery and stabilization after 16 weeks .
Red blood cell transfusions were received by 51 % of INREBIC - treated patients and permanent discontinuation of INREBIC occurred due to anemia in 1 % of patients .
Consider dose reduction for patients who become red blood cell transfusion dependent [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Thrombocytopenia New or worsening Grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia during the randomized treatment period occurred in 12 % of INREBIC - treated patients .
The median time to onset of the first Grade 3 thrombocytopenia was approximately 1 month ; with 75 % of cases occurring within 4 months .
Platelet transfusions were received by 3 . 1 % of INREBIC - treated patients .
Permanent discontinuation of treatment due to thrombocytopenia and bleeding that required clinical intervention both occurred in 2 . 1 % of INREBIC - treated patients .
Obtain a complete blood count ( CBC ) at baseline , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
For Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with active bleeding or Grade 4 thrombocytopenia , interrupt INREBIC until resolved to less than or equal to Grade 2 or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose and monitor platelets as clinically indicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 3 Gastrointestinal Toxicity Gastrointestinal toxicities are the most frequent adverse reactions in INREBIC - treated patients .
During the randomized treatment period , diarrhea occurred in 66 % of patients , nausea in 62 % of patients , and vomiting in 39 % of patients .
Grade 3 diarrhea and vomiting occurred in 5 % and 3 . 1 % of patients , respectively .
The median time to onset of any grade nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea was 1 day , with 75 % of cases occurring within 2 weeks of treatment .
Consider providing appropriate prophylactic antiemetic therapy ( e . g . , 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists ) during INREBIC treatment .
Treat diarrhea with antidiarrheal medications promptly at the first onset of symptoms .
For Grade 3 or higher nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea not responsive to supportive measures within 48 hours , interrupt INREBIC until resolved to Grade 1 or less or baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor thiamine levels and replete as needed .
5 . 4 Hepatic Toxicity Elevations of ALT and AST ( all grades ) during the randomized treatment period occurred in 43 % and 40 % , respectively , with Grade 3 or 4 in 1 % and 0 % , respectively , of INREBIC - treated patients .
The median time to onset of any grade transaminase elevation was approximately 1 month , with 75 % of cases occurring within 3 months .
Monitor hepatic function at baseline , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
For Grade 3 or higher ALT and / or AST elevations ( greater than 5 × ULN ) , interrupt INREBIC dose until resolved to Grade 1 or less or to baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose .
If reoccurrence of a Grade 3 or higher elevation of ALT / AST , discontinue treatment with INREBIC [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 5 Amylase and Lipase Elevation Grade 3 or higher amylase and / or lipase elevations developed in 2 % and 10 % , respectively , of INREBIC - treated patients .
The median time to onset of any grade amylase or lipase elevation was 15 days , with 75 % of cases occurring within 1 month of starting treatment .
One patient developed pancreatitis in the fedratinib clinical development program ( n = 608 ) and pancreatitis resolved with treatment discontinuation .
Monitor amylase and lipase at baseline , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
For Grade 3 or higher amylase and / or lipase elevations , interrupt INREBIC until resolved to Grade 1 or less or to baseline .
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 6 Major Adverse Cardiac Events ( MACE ) Another Janus Kinase ( JAK ) - inhibitor has increased the risk of MACE , including cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction , and stroke ( compared to those treated with TNF blockers ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , a condition for which INREBIC is not indicated .
Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient prior to initiating or continuing therapy with INREBIC , particularly in patients who are current or past smokers and patients with other cardiovascular risk factors .
Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious cardiovascular events and the steps to take if they occur .
5 . 7 Thrombosis Another JAK - inhibitor has increased the risk of thrombosis , including deep venous thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , and arterial thrombosis ( compared to those treated with TNF blockers ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , a condition for which INREBIC is not indicated .
In patients with MF treated with INREBIC in clinical trials , the rates of thromboembolic events were similar in INREBIC and placebo treated patients .
Patients with symptoms of thrombosis should be promptly evaluated and treated appropriately .
5 . 8 Secondary Malignancies Another JAK - inhibitor has increased the risk of lymphoma and other malignancies excluding nonmelanoma skin cancer ( NMSC ) ( compared to those treated with TNF blockers ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , a condition for which INREBIC is not indicated .
Patients who are current or past smokers are at additional increased risk .
Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient prior to initiating or continuing therapy with INREBIC , particularly in patients with a known malignancy ( other than a successfully treated NMSC ) , patients who develop a malignancy , and patients who are current or past smokers .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Anemia and Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Gastrointestinal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hepatic Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Amylase and Lipase Elevation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Major Adverse Cardiac Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Secondary Malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) are diarrhea , nausea , anemia , and vomiting ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bristol - Myers Squibb at 1 - 800 - 721 - 5072 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data in the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Section 5 . 1 Encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s , reflect exposure to INREBIC as a single agent in 608 patients who received more than one dose ( ranging from 30 mg to 800 mg ) in Studies JAKARTA , ARD11936 , JAKARTA2 , ARD12042 , ARD12888 , TED12037 / TED12015 , INT12497 , and TES13519 , of whom 459 were patients with myelofibrosis , including 97 patients previously treated with ruxolitinib .
Among the 608 patients receiving INREBIC , the median drug exposure was 37 weeks and the median number of cycles initiated was 9 cycles .
Fifty - nine percent of 608 patients were exposed for 6 months or longer and 39 % were exposed for 12 months or longer .
Using the dataset described above , the most common adverse reactions in > 20 % of patients ( N = 608 ) were diarrhea , nausea , anemia , vomiting , fatigue , thrombocytopenia , and constipation .
JAKARTA Trial The safety of INREBIC was evaluated in the randomized treatment period of the JAKARTA trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Key eligibility criteria included adult patients with intermediate - 2 or high - risk primary MF or post - PV MF or post - ET MF with splenomegaly , platelet count ≥ 50 × 109 / L , and no splenectomy .
Patients received INREBIC at 400 mg daily ( n = 96 ) or placebo ( n = 95 ) .
Among patients receiving INREBIC , 82 % were exposed for more than 6 months and 65 % for more than one year .
Patients had a median duration of exposure to INREBIC 400 mg daily of 15 . 5 months compared with placebo where patients were treated for 6 months or until disease progression after which patients were allowed to crossover to active treatment .
The median age of patients who received INREBIC was 65 years ( range : 27 to 86 years ) , 59 % were male , 90 % were White , 8 % were Asian , 1 % were Black , 1 % were Other , and 92 % had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status of 0 to 1 .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 21 % of INREBIC - treated patients .
Serious adverse reactions in ≥ 2 % of patients receiving INREBIC 400 mg daily included cardiac failure ( 5 % ) and anemia ( 2 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions of cardiogenic shock occurred in 1 % of patients receiving INREBIC 400 mg daily .
Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 14 % of patients receiving INREBIC .
Most frequent reasons for permanent discontinuation in ≥ 2 % of patients receiving INREBIC included cardiac failure ( 3 % ) , thrombocytopenia , myocardial ischemia , diarrhea , and increased blood creatinine ( 2 % each ) .
Dosage interruptions due to an adverse reaction during the randomized treatment period occurred in 21 % of patients who received INREBIC .
Adverse reactions requiring dosage interruption in > 3 % of patients who received INREBIC included diarrhea and nausea .
Dosage reductions due to an adverse reaction during the randomized treatment period occurred in 19 % of patients who received INREBIC .
Adverse reactions requiring dosage reduction in > 2 % of patients who received INREBIC included anemia ( 6 % ) , diarrhea ( 3 % ) , vomiting ( 3 % ) , and thrombocytopenia ( 2 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( reported in ≥ 20 % ) were diarrhea , nausea , anemia , and vomiting .
Tables 3 and 4 summarize the common adverse reactions and laboratory abnormalities , respectively , in JAKARTA during randomized treatment .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % Patients Receiving INREBIC 400 mg with a Difference between Arms of > 5 % during Randomized Treatmenta CTCAE version 4 . 03 .
b Only 1 Grade 4 event ( anemia ) .
c Includes cystitis .
Adverse Reactiona INREBIC 400 mg ( n = 96 ) Placebo ( n = 95 ) All Grades % Grade ≥ 3 b % All Grades % Grade ≥ 3 % Diarrhea 66 5 16 0 Nausea 62 0 15 0 Anemia 40 30 14 7 Vomiting 39 3 . 1 5 0 Fatigue or asthenia 19 5 16 1 . 1 Muscle spasms 12 0 1 . 1 0 Blood creatinine increased 10 1 1 . 1 0 Pain in extremity 10 0 4 . 2 0 Alanine aminotransferase Increased 9 0 1 . 1 0 Headache 9 0 1 . 1 0 Weight increased 9 0 4 . 2 0 Dizziness 8 0 3 . 2 0 Bone pain 8 0 2 . 1 0 Urinary tract infectionc 6 0 1 . 1 0 Dysuria 6 0 0 0 Aspartate aminotransferase increased 5 0 1 . 1 0 Clinically significant adverse reactions reported in 5 % or less of patients : hypertension of all grades was reported in 4 . 2 % of patients and Grade 3 or higher in 3 % of INREBIC - treated patients .
Changes in selected postbaseline laboratory values that were observed are shown in Table 4 for the JAKARTA trial during randomized treatment .
Table 4 : Selected Laboratory Abnormalities That Have Worsened from Baseline ( ≥ 20 % ) in Patients Receiving INREBIC with a Difference between Arms of > 10 % When Compared to Placebo in JAKARTA during Randomized Treatment INREBIC 400 mg ( n = 96 ) Placebo ( n = 95 ) Laboratory Parameter All Grades % Grade ≥ 3 % All Grades % Grade ≥ 3 % Hematology Anemia 74 34 32 10 Thrombocytopenia 47 12 26 10 Neutropenia 23 5 13 3 . 3 Biochemistry Creatinine increased 59 3 . 1 19 1 . 1 ALT increased 43 1 14 0 AST increased 40 0 16 1 . 1 Lipase increased 35 10 7 2 . 2 Hyponatremia 26 5 11 4 . 3 Amylase increased 24 2 . 1 5 0 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Reduce INREBIC dose as recommended ( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) .
• • Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid use of INREBIC ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • Dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 Inhibitor : Avoid use of INREBIC ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • CYP3A4 , CYP2C19 , or CYP2D6 Substrates : Dose modifications of substrates drugs may be needed ( 7 . 2 ) .
• • OCT2 and MATE1 / 2 - K Substrates : Dose modifications of substrate drugs may be needed ( 7 . 2 ) .
7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on INREBIC Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of INREBIC with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases fedratinib exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Increased exposure may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Consider alternative therapies that do not strongly inhibit CYP3A4 activity .
Alternatively , reduce the dose of INREBIC when administering with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of INREBIC with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducer can decrease fedratinib exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Decreased exposure may reduce the effectiveness of INREBIC .
Avoid INREBIC with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers .
Dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 Inhibitors Avoid INREBIC with dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor .
The effect of concomitant administration of a dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor with INREBIC has not been studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effect of INREBIC on Other Drugs CYP3A4 , CYP2C19 , or CYP2D6 Substrate Drugs Coadministration of INREBIC with drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates , CYP2C19 substrates , or CYP2D6 substrates increases the concentrations of these drugs , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor for adverse reactions and adjust the dose of drugs that are CYP3A4 , CYP2C19 , or CYP2D6 substrates as necessary when coadministered with INREBIC .
OCT2 and MATE1 / 2 - K Substrate Drugs Coadministration of INREBIC with drugs that are renally excreted via organic cation transporter ( OCT2 ) and multidrug and toxin extrusion ( MATE ) 1 / 2 - K can decrease renal clearance of those drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor for adverse reactions and consider dose modifications for drugs that are renally excreted via OCT2 or MATE1 / 2 - K ( e . g . , metformin ) , as necessary when coadministered with INREBIC .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed ( 8 . 2 ) .
• • Severe Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use of INREBIC ( 8 . 7 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on INREBIC use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of fedratinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses considerably lower than the recommended human daily dose of 400 mg / day resulted in adverse developmental outcomes ( see Data ) .
Consider the benefits and risks of INREBIC for the mother and possible risks to the fetus when prescribing INREBIC to a pregnant woman .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Adverse outcomes in pregnancy occur regardless of the health of the mother or the use of medications .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats , fedratinib administration at a dose of 30 mg / kg / day during organogenesis ( gestation days 6 to 17 ) was associated with adverse developmental outcomes including skeletal variations ( such as additional ossification center of neuronal arches ) .
These effects occurred in rats at approximately 0 . 1 times the clinical exposure based on AUC at the recommended daily dose .
At lower doses of 10 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 01 times the clinical exposure at the recommended daily dose ) , fedratinib administered to pregnant rats resulted in maternal toxicity of decreased gestational weight gain .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits , fedratinib administration during organogenesis ( gestation Days 6 to 18 ) did not produce developmental or maternal toxicity at doses up to the highest dose level tested , 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 08 times the clinical exposure at the recommended daily dose ) .
In a separate study , administration of 80 mg / kg / day fedratinib to rabbits resulted in maternal mortality .
In a pre - and postnatal study in rats , fedratinib was administered to pregnant female rats at doses of 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day from Day 6 of gestation through Day 20 of lactation , with weaning on Day 21 .
A slight decrease in maternal body weight gain during gestation occurred at 30 mg / kg / day .
The offspring from the high dose ( 30 mg / kg ) had decreased body weight preweaning in both sexes and postweaning through the maturation phase in males .
These effects occurred at exposures approximately 0 . 1 times the clinical exposure at the recommended daily dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of fedratinib or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise patients not to breastfeed during treatment with INREBIC , and for at least 1 month after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of INREBIC in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients with myelofibrosis who received an INREBIC dose of 400 mg in the clinical studies , 47 . 3 % were greater than 65 years of age and 12 . 3 % were greater than 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness of INREBIC were observed between these patients and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Reduce INREBIC dose when administered to patients with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 mL / min to 29 mL / min by Cockcroft - Gault ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No modification of the starting dose is recommended for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 mL / min to 89 mL / min by Cockcroft - Gault ) .
Due to potential increase of exposure , patients with preexisting moderate renal impairment require more intensive safety monitoring , and if necessary , dose modifications based on adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment INREBIC pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 times ULN and any AST ) .
Avoid use of INREBIC in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION INREBIC ( fedratinib ) is a kinase inhibitor with the chemical name N - tert - butyl - 3 - [ ( 5 - methyl - 2 - { [ 4 - ( 2 - pyrrolidin - 1 - ylethoxy ) phenyl ] amino } pyrimidin - 4 - yl ) amino ] benzenesulfonamide dihydrochloride monohydrate .
Its empirical formula is C27H36N6O3S ∙ 2 HCl ∙ H2O and a molecular weight of 615 . 62 .
Fedratinib exhibits pH - dependent aqueous solubility ; it is freely soluble in the acidic condition ( > 100 mg / mL at pH 1 ) and practically insoluble in the neutral condition ( 4 mcg / mL at pH 7 . 4 ) .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] INREBIC ( fedratinib ) is available as 100 - mg ( equivalent to 117 . 3 mg of fedratinib dihydrochloride monohydrate ) hard gelatin capsules for oral administration .
Each capsule contains inactive ingredients of silicified microcrystalline cellulose and sodium stearyl fumarate .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , red iron oxide , titanium dioxide and white ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fedratinib is an oral kinase inhibitor with activity against wild type and mutationally activated Janus Associated Kinase 2 ( JAK2 ) and FMS - like tyrosine kinase 3 ( FLT3 ) .
Fedratinib is a JAK2 - selective inhibitor with higher inhibitory activity for JAK2 over family members JAK1 , JAK3 and TYK2 .
Abnormal activation of JAK2 is associated with myeloproliferative neoplasms ( MPNs ) , including myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera .
In cell models expressing mutationally active JAK2V617F or FLT3ITD , fedratinib reduced phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription ( STAT3 / 5 ) proteins , inhibited cell proliferation , and induced apoptotic cell death .
In mouse models of JAK2V617F - driven myeloproliferative disease , fedratinib blocked phosphorylation of STAT3 / 5 , and improved survival , white blood cell counts , hematocrit , splenomegaly , and fibrosis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Fedratinib inhibited cytokine - induced STAT3 phosphorylation in whole blood from patients with myelofibrosis .
The inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation was maximal approximately 2 hours after the first dose , with values returning to near baseline at 24 hours .
After daily administration of fedratinib , levels of inhibition at steady state PK were similar to the maximal inhibition reached after the first dose of 300 ( 0 . 75 times the recommended dose ) , 400 or 500 mg ( 1 . 25 times the recommended dose ) of fedratinib .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The potential for QTc prolongation with fedratinib was evaluated in 31 patients with solid tumors .
No large mean increase in the QTc interval ( > 20 ms ) was detected with daily dosing of fedratinib 500 mg ( 1 . 25 times the recommended dose ) for 14 days .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics INREBIC at 300 mg to 500 mg once daily ( 0 . 75 to 1 . 25 times the recommended dose ) results in a dose proportional increase in geometric mean fedratinib peak concentrations ( Cmax ) and the area under the plasma concentration time curve over the dosing interval ( AUCtau ) .
The mean steady state levels are achieved within 15 days of daily dosing .
The mean accumulation ratio ranged between 3 - to 4 - fold .
At the dose of 400 mg once daily , the geometric mean ( coefficient of variation , % CV ) fedratinib Cmax is 1804 ng / mL ( 49 % ) and AUCtau is 26870 ng . hr / mL ( 43 % ) in patients with myelofibrosis .
Absorption Following 400 mg once daily , fedratinib median time to peak concentrations ( Tmax ) at steady - state is 3 hours ( range : 2 to 4 hours ) .
Effect of Food A low - fat , low - calorie ( total 162 calories : 6 % from fat , 78 % from carbohydrate and 16 % from protein ) or a high - fat , high - calorie ( total 815 calories : 52 % from fat , 33 % from carbohydrate and 15 % from protein ) meal increased area under the curve over time to infinity ( AUCinf ) up to 24 % and Cmax up to 14 % of a single 500 mg dose ( 1 . 25 times the recommended dose ) of fedratinib .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of fedratinib at steady - state is 1770 L in patients with myelofibrosis at 400 mg once daily dose .
Fedratinib is 92 % or greater bound to human plasma proteins .
Elimination Fedratinib pharmacokinetics is characterized by a biphasic disposition with an effective half - life of 41 hours , a terminal half - life of approximately 114 hours , and apparent clearance ( CL / F ) ( % CV ) of 13 L / hr ( 51 % ) in patients with myelofibrosis .
Metabolism Fedratinib is metabolized by CYP3A4 , CYP2C19 , and flavin - containing monooxygenase 3 ( FMO3 ) .
Fedratinib accounts for approximately 80 % of total circulating drug in plasma after oral administration .
Excretion Following a single oral dose of radiolabeled fedratinib , 77 % ( 23 % unchanged ) of the administered dose was excreted in feces and 5 % ( 3 % unchanged ) was eliminated in urine .
Specific Populations Age ( 20 years to 95 years ) , race ( White , Asians ) , sex , body weight ( 40 kg to 135 kg ) , mild [ total bilirubin ≤ upper limit of normal ( ULN ) and AST > ULN or total bilirubin 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST ] or moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment , and mild ( CLcr 60 mL / min to 89 mL / min by C - G ) renal impairment did not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of fedratinib .
The effect of severe ( total bilirubin > 3 times ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment on fedratinib pharmacokinetics is unknown .
Patients with Renal Impairment Following a single 300 mg dose ( 0 . 75 times the recommended dose ) of INREBIC , the AUCinf of fedratinib increased by 1 . 5 - fold in subjects with moderate ( CLcr 30 mL / min to 59 mL / min by C - G ) renal impairment and 1 . 9 - fold in subjects with severe ( CLcr 15 mL / min to 29 mL / min by C - G ) renal impairment , compared to that in subjects with normal renal function ( CLcr ≥ 90 mL / min by C - G ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Renal Impairment ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies and Model - Informed Approaches Effect of Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor : 200 mg twice daily ) with a single dose of INREBIC ( 300 mg ; 0 . 75 times the recommended dose ) increased fedratinib AUCinf by 3 - fold [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Based on modeling and simulation , coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor such as ketoconazole ( 400 mg once daily ) with INREBIC 400 mg once daily is predicted to increase fedratinib AUC at steady state by 2 - fold [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Based on modeling and simulation , coadministration of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors , erythromycin ( 500 mg three times daily ) or diltiazem ( 120 mg twice daily ) , with INREBIC 400 mg once daily is predicted to increase fedratinib AUC at steady state by 1 . 2 - , and 1 . 1 - fold , respectively .
Effect of Dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 Inhibitor The effect of concomitant administration with a dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor on fedratinib pharmacokinetics is not known [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Effect of Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of rifampin ( strong CYP3A4 inducer : 600 mg once daily ) or efavirenz ( moderate CYP3A4 inducer : 600 mg once daily ) with a single dose of fedratinib ( 500 mg ; 1 . 25 times the recommended dose ) decreased AUCinf of fedratinib by approximately 81 % or 47 % , respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Effect of Gastric Acid Reducing Agents Coadministration of pantoprazole ( proton pump inhibitor : 40 mg once daily ) with a single dose of INREBIC ( 500 mg ; 1 . 25 times the recommended dose ) increased fedratinib AUCinf by 1 . 2 - fold .
Effect of Fedratinib on Drugs that are CYP3A , CYP2C19 , or CYP2D6 Substrates Coadministration of a single dose of midazolam ( CYP3A substrate : 2 mg ) , omeprazole ( CYP2C19 substrate : 20 mg ) , and metoprolol ( CYP2D6 substrate : 100 mg ) with fedratinib increased midazolam , omeprazole , or metoprolol AUCinf by 4 - , 3 - , and 2 - fold , respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
In Vitro and Clinical Transporter Studies Fedratinib as a Substrate for Transporters : Fedratinib is a substrate of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) but not breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , BSEP , multidrug resistance protein ( MRP2 ) , and organic anion transporting polypeptide ( OATP ) 1B1 and OATP1B3 in vitro .
Effect of Fedratinib on Transporter Substrates Fedratinib inhibits P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OCT1 , OCT2 , MATE1 , and MATE2 - K , but not BSEP , MRP2 , and organic anion transporter ( OAT ) 1 and OAT3 in vitro .
Coadministration of a single dose of fedratinib ( 600 mg ; 1 . 5 times the recommended dose ) with a single dose of digoxin ( P - gp substrate : 0 . 25 mg ) , rosuvastatin ( OATP1B1 / 1B3 and BCRP substrate : 10 mg ) , and metformin ( OCT2 and MATE1 / 2 - K substrate : 1000 mg ) had no clinically meaningful effect on the AUCinf of digoxin , rosuvastatin , and metformin .
Renal clearance of metformin was decreased by 36 % in the presence of fedratinib [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Contrary to unchanged PK , the glucose lowering PD effect of metformin in the presence of fedratinib appears reduced , with baseline adjusted glucose AUC being approximately 50 % higher in response to an oral glucose challenge .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Fedratinib was not carcinogenic in the 6 - month Tg . rasH2 transgenic mouse model .
Fedratinib was not mutagenic in a bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Ames test ) or clastogenic in in vitro chromosomal aberration assay ( Chinese hamster ovary cells ) or in vivo in a micronucleus test in rats .
In a fertility study in rats , fedratinib was administered for at least 70 days ( males ) and 14 days ( females ) prior to cohabitation and up to the implantation day ( gestation day 7 ) .
Fedratinib had no effect on the estrous cycle parameters , mating performance , fertility , pregnancy rate or reproductive parameters in male or female rats at doses up to 30 mg / kg .
The exposure ( AUC ) at the dose of 30 mg / kg / day is approximately 0 . 10 to 0 . 13 times the clinical exposure at the recommended daily dose .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology The JAK / STAT pathway has been implicated in bone formation and metabolism , and its inhibition may cause bone abnormalities , e . g . in developing bone .
There is currently no evidence of bone abnormalities in patients who received INREBIC .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES JAKARTA JAKARTA ( NCT01437787 ) was a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled trial in patients with intermediate - 2 or high - risk myelofibrosis , post - polycythemia vera myelofibrosis or post - essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis with splenomegaly .
A total of 289 patients were randomized to receive either INREBIC 500 mg ( N = 97 ) , 400 mg ( n = 96 ) or placebo ( n = 96 ) once daily for at least 6 cycles .
The median age was 65 years ( range 27 to 86 years ) , 47 % of patients were older than 65 years and 59 % were male .
Sixty - four percent ( 64 % ) of patients had primary MF , 26 % had post - polycythemia vera MF , and 10 % had post - essential thrombocythemia MF .
Fifty - two percent ( 52 % ) of patients had intermediate - 2 risk , and 48 % had high - risk disease .
The median baseline hemoglobin level was 10 . 2 g / dL .
The median baseline platelet count was 214 × 109 / L ; 16 % of patients had a platelet count < 100 × 109 / L and 84 % of patients had a platelet count ≥ 100 × 109 / L .
Patients had a baseline median palpable spleen length of 15 cm .
Patients had a baseline median spleen volume as measured by magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) or computed tomography ( CT ) of 2568 mL ( range of 316 to 8244 mL ) ( the upper limit of normal is approximately 300 mL ) .
Patients underwent MRI or CT spleen volume assessment ( after the third and sixth cycle ) with a follow - up scan 4 weeks after Cycle 6 .
The efficacy of INREBIC in the treatment of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis was established based upon the proportion of patients achieving greater than or equal to a 35 % reduction from baseline in spleen volume at the End of Cycle 6 as measured by MRI or CT with a follow - up scan 4 weeks later .
Efficacy analyses are presented in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Percent of Patients Achieving 35 % or Greater Reduction from Baseline in Spleen Volume at the End of Cycle 6 in the Phase 3 Study , JAKARTA ( ITT Population ) Spleen Response by MRI / CT at the End of Cycle 6 with a Follow - up Scan 4 Weeks Later INREBIC 400 mg N = 96 n ( % ) Placebo N = 96 n ( % ) Number ( % ) of Patients with Spleen Volume Reduction by 35 % or More 35 ( 37 ) 1 ( 1 ) p - value p < 0 . 0001 Figure 1 shows the percent change in spleen volume from baseline for patients who have an evaluable MRI / CT at the End of Cycle 6 .
Figure 1 : Percent Change in Spleen Volume from Baseline at the End of Cycle 6 for Each Patient in the Phase 3 Study , JAKARTA [ MULTIMEDIA ] N * : Subjects with available percent change in spleen volume at EOC6 .
Based on Kaplan - Meier estimates , the median duration of spleen response was 18 . 2 months for the INREBIC 400 mg group .
Additional outcomes included the proportion of patients with a 50 % or greater reduction in Total Symptom Score from baseline to the End of Cycle 6 as measured by the modified Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form ( MFSAF ) v2 . 0 diary .
The modified MFSAF v2 . 0 is a patient diary capturing the 6 core symptoms of MF : night sweats , itching , abdominal discomfort , early satiety , pain under ribs on left side , and bone or muscle pain .
The modified MFSAF diary was completed daily during the week prior to Day 1 of each treatment cycle , and at the End of Cycle 6 .
Symptom scores ranged from 0 ( " absent " ) to 10 ( " worst imaginable " ) .
These scores were added to create the Total Symptom Score , which has a maximum score of 60 .
At baseline , the mean Total Symptom Score was 17 . 95 in the 400 mg group and 15 . 45 in the placebo group .
The proportion of patients with a 50 % or greater reduction in Total Symptom Score was 40 % in the INREBIC 400 mg group and 9 % in the placebo group ( Table 6 ) .
Results are excluded for 22 patients : 6 patients with a baseline Total Symptom Score of zero ( 2 in the INREBIC 400 mg group and 4 in the placebo group ) and 16 patients with missing baseline ( 5 in the INREBIC 400 mg group and 11 in the placebo group ) .
Table 6 : Improvement in Total Symptom Score in Patients with Myelofibrosis in the Phase 3 Study , JAKARTA INREBIC 400 mg ( N = 89 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 81 ) n ( % ) Number ( % ) of Patients with 50 % or Greater Reduction in Total Symptom Score at the End of Cycle 6 36 ( 40 ) 7 ( 9 ) p - value p < 0 . 0001 Figure 2 shows the percent change in Total Symptom Score from baseline at the End of Cycle 6 for each patient .
Figure 2 : Percent Change from Baseline in Total Symptom Score at the End of Cycle 6 for Each Patient in the Phase 3 Study , JAKARTA [ MULTIMEDIA ] N * : Subjects with available percent change in Total Symptom Score at EOC6 .
Figure 3 displays the proportion of patients with at least a 50 % improvement in each of the individual symptoms that comprised the Total Symptom Score indicating that all 6 of the symptoms contributed to the higher Total Symptom Score response rate in the group treated with INREBIC .
Figure 3 : Proportion of Patients Achieving 50 % or Greater Reduction in Individual Symptom Scores at the End of Cycle 6 with Nonzero Baseline Scores [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied INREBIC ( fedratinib ) 100 mg capsules : Reddish brown , opaque , size 0 capsule , printed with " FEDR 100 mg " in white ink .
• • Bottles of 120 capsules ( NDC 59572 - 720 - 12 ) 16 . 2 Storage Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Discuss the following with patients prior to and during treatment with INREBIC .
Encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s Advise patients that serious and fatal encephalopathy , including Wernicke ' s , has occurred in patients taking INREBIC .
Wernicke ' s encephalopathy is a neurological emergency resulting from acute thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) deficiency .
Advise patients of the need to monitor thiamine levels [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 6 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to seek emergency medical attention for any change in mental status such as confusion , drowsiness or memory impairment , cerebellar abnormalities such as ataxia , and ophthalmic abnormalities such as diplopia and nystagmus .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider right away if they experience nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and weight loss unresponsive to treatment resulting in malnutrition and lower thiamine levels , which may lead to Wernicke ' s encephalopathy [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Anemia and Thrombocytopenia Advise patients that INREBIC is associated with anemia and thrombocytopenia , and of the need to monitor complete blood counts before and during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Toxicity Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience intractable diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting .
Prescribers should advise patients of the potential complications of severe diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic Toxicity Advise patients that INREBIC may increase liver enzymes and of the need to monitor liver enzyme levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Amylase and Lipase Elevation Advise patients that INREBIC may increase amylase and lipase and of the need to monitor amylase and lipase [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Major Adverse Cardiac Events ( MACE ) Advise patients that events of major adverse cardiac events ( MACE ) including myocardial infarction , stroke , and cardiovascular death , have been reported in clinical studies with another JAK - inhibitor used to treat rheumatoid arthritis , a condition for which INREBIC is not indicated .
Advise patients , especially current or past smokers or patients with other cardiovascular risk factors , to be alert for the development of signs and symptoms of cardiovascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Thrombosis Advise patients that events of DVT and PE have been reported in clinical studies with another JAK - inhibitor used to treat rheumatoid arthritis , a condition for which INREBIC is not indicated .
Advise patients to tell their healthcare provider if they develop any signs or symptoms of a DVT or PE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Secondary Malignancies Advise patients , especially current or past smokers and patients with a known secondary malignancy ( other than a successfully treated NMSC ) , that lymphoma and other malignancies ( excluding NMSC ) have been reported in clinical studies with another JAK - inhibitor used to treat rheumatoid arthritis , a condition for which INREBIC is not indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Lactation Advise patients not to breastfeed during treatment with INREBIC and for at least 1 month after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Dosing Instructions • • Instruct patients that if they miss a dose of INREBIC , skip the dose and take it the next day and return to normal schedule [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Warn patients not to take 2 doses to make up for the missed dose .
Marketed by : Bristol - Myers Squibb Company Princeton , NJ 08543 USA INREBIC ® is a trademark of Impact Biomedicines , Inc . , a Bristol - Myers Squibb company .
INRPI . 006 / MG . 006 10 / 22 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : Oct 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE INREBIC ® ( inn - REH - bik ) ( fedratinib ) capsules , for oral use What is the most important information I should know about INREBIC ?
INREBIC may cause serious side effects , including : • • Encephalopathy ( including Wernicke ' s encephalopathy ) .
A serious and sometimes fatal neurological problem called encephalopathy ( including Wernicke ' s encephalopathy ) has happened in some people who take INREBIC .
Wernicke ' s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency that can happen if you do not have enough vitamin B1 ( thiamine ) in your body .
Your healthcare provider will do a blood test to check your vitamin B1 level before starting and during treatment with INREBIC .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to stop taking INREBIC and take a vitamin B1 supplement if you develop side effects during treatment with INREBIC .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting that does not respond to treatment .
Get emergency medical help right away if you develop the following : • oconfusion , memory problems or drowsiness • oproblems with balance and movement , such as difficulty walking • oeye problems , such as double or blurred vision or abnormal eye movements • Call your healthcare provider if you experience rapid weight loss or weight loss that does not get better with treatment .
What is INREBIC ?
INREBIC is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with certain types of myelofibrosis ( MF ) .
It is not known if INREBIC is safe and effective in children .
Before taking INREBIC , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • • have low red blood cell or platelet counts • • have or have had liver problems • • have or have had kidney problems • • have had cancer in the past • • are a current or past smoker • • have had a blood clot , heart attack , other heart problems , or stroke • • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if INREBIC passes into your breast milk .
You should not breastfeed during treatment with INREBIC and for at least 1 month after your last dose .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with INREBIC .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
INREBIC and other medicines may affect each other causing unwanted side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take INREBIC ?
• • Take INREBIC exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Do not change your dose or stop taking INREBIC unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Take INREBIC 1 time each day .
• • Take INREBIC with or without food .
Taking INREBIC with a high fat meal may help to reduce nausea and vomiting symptoms .
• • If you miss a dose of INREBIC , skip the missed dose and take your next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses to make up for the missed dose .
What are the possible side effects of INREBIC ?
INREBIC can cause serious side effects , including : • • See " What is the most important information I should know about INREBIC ? "
• • Low blood cell counts .
INREBIC may cause low red blood cell counts ( anemia ) and low platelet counts ( thrombocytopenia ) in some people .
You may need a blood transfusion if your blood counts drop too low .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your blood counts before you start and during treatment with INREBIC .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop any bleeding or bruising during treatment with INREBIC .
• • Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Your healthcare provider may give you certain medicines to help treat your nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away if you have nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea that does not get better with treatment .
• • Liver problems .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your liver function before starting and during treatment with INREBIC .
• • Amylase and lipase increases .
You may have changes in your blood amylase or lipase levels that may indicate a problem with your pancreas .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your amylase or lipase levels before starting and during treatment with INREBIC .
• • Increased risk of major cardiac events such as heart attack , stroke , or death in people who have cardiovascular risk factors and who are current or past smokers while using another JAK inhibitor to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
Get emergency help right away if you have any symptoms of a heart attack or stroke while taking INREBIC , including : • odiscomfort in the center of your chest that lasts for more than a few minutes , or that goes away and comes back • osevere tightness , pain , pressure , or heaviness in your chest , throat , neck , or jaw • opain or discomfort in your arms , back , neck , jaw , or stomach • oshortness of breath with or without chest discomfort • obreaking out in a cold sweat • onausea or vomiting • ofeeling lightheaded • oweakness in one part or on one side of your body • oslurred speech • • Increased risk of blood clots .
Blood clots in the veins of your legs ( deep vein thrombosis , DVT ) or lungs ( pulmonary embolism , PE ) have happened in people taking another JAK inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis and may be life - threatening .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any signs and symptoms of blood clots during treatment with INREBIC , including : • oswelling , pain , or tenderness in one or both legs • osudden unexplained chest or upper back pain • oshortness of breath or difficulty breathing • • Possible increased risk of new ( secondary ) cancers .
People who take another JAK inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis have an increased risk of new ( secondary ) cancers , including lymphoma and other cancers .
People who smoke or who smoked in the past have an added risk of new cancers .
The most common side effects of INREBIC include : • • diarrhea • • nausea • • low red blood cell counts ( anemia ) • • vomiting These are not all of the possible side effects of INREBIC .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store INREBIC ?
• • Store INREBIC below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
Keep INREBIC and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of INREBIC .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use INREBIC for conditions for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give INREBIC to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about INREBIC that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in INREBIC ?
Active ingredient : fedratinib Inactive ingredients : silicified microcrystalline cellulose and sodium stearyl fumarate .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , red iron oxide , titanium dioxide and white ink .
Marketed by : Bristol - Myers Squibb Company , Princeton , NJ 08543 USA INREBIC ® is a trademark of Impact Biomedicines , Inc . , a Bristol - Myers Squibb company .
INRMG . 006 10 / 2022 For more information go to www . INREBIC . com or call 1 - 800 - 721 - 5072 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 59572 - 720 - 12 INREBIC ® ( fedratinib ) capsules 100 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 120 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
