Drug Facts Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • a cold • hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • promotes nasal and sinus drainage • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • helps clear nasal passages ; shrinks swollen membranes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product • do not exceed recommended dosage • do not use this product for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen • this product may cause temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing , or an increase in nasal discharge • the use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril , not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor .
Shake well before use .
To open , hold by the white grips then squeeze and turn cap .
Before using for the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip and prime metered pump by depressing firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at the base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress pump all the way down with a firm even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
To close , turn cap until it " clicks " .
DO NOT DISCARD CAP .
Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , glycerin , monobasic sodium phosphate , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitol solution Questions ?
1 - 866 - MUCINEX ( 1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 ) You may also report side effects to this number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 22 mL Bottle Carton NDC 63824 - 120 - 11 Mucinex ® SINUS - MAX ® SEVERE NASAL CONGESTION RELIEF SINUS & ALLERGY NASAL SPRAY Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % Nasal Decongestant • ✓ Fast acting • ✓ Lasts 12 Hours 3 / 4 FL OZ ( 22 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
