To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of methenamine hippurate and other antibacterial drugs , methenamine hippurate tablets USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Each white to off - white capsule - shaped tablet contains 1 g Methenamine Hippurate USP which is the Hippuric Acid Salt of Methenamine ( hexamethylene tetramine ) .
The tablet also contains inactive ingredients Colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate and povidone K90 .
ACTIONS Microbiology : Methenamine hippurate has antibacterial activity because the methenamine component is hydrolyzed to formaldehyde in acid urine .
Hippuric acid , the other component , has some antibacterial activity and also acts to keep the urine acid .
The drug is generally active against E . coli , enterococci and staphylococci .
Enterobacter aerogenes is generally resistant .
The urine must be kept sufficiently acid for urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus and Pseudomonas to be inhibited .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
Human Pharmacology : Within 1 / 2 hour after ingestion of a single 1 - gram dose of methenamine hippurate , antibacterial activity is demonstrable in the urine .
Urine has continuous antibacterial activity when methenamine hippurate is administered at the recommended dosage schedule of 1 gram twice daily .
Over 90 % of methenamine moiety is excreted in the urine within 24 hours after administration of a single 1 - gram dose .
Similarly , the hippurate moiety is rapidly absorbed and excreted , and it reaches the urine by both tubular secretion and glomerular filtration .
This action may be important in older patients or in those with some degree of renal impairment .
INDICATIONS Methenamine hippurate tablets USP are indicated for prophylactic or suppressive treatment of frequently recurring urinary tract infections when long - term therapy is considered necessary .
This drug should only be used after eradication of the infection by other appropriate antimicrobial agents .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of methenamine hippurate and other antibacterial drugs , methenamine hippurate should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Methenamine hippurate tablets USP are contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe hepatic insufficiency , or severe dehydration .
Methenamine preparations should not be given to patients taking sulfonamides because some sulfonamides may form an insoluble precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine .
WARNINGS Large doses of methenamine ( 8 grams daily for 3 to 4 weeks ) have caused bladder irritation , painful and frequent micturition , albuminuria , and gross hematuria .
PRECAUTIONS Prescribing methenamine hippurate in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
• Care should be taken to maintain an acid pH of the urine , especially when treating infections due to urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus and strains of Pseudomonas .
• In a few instances in one study , the serum transaminase levels were slightly elevated during treatment but returned to normal while the patients were still taking methenamine hippurate .
Because of this report , it is recommended that liver function studies be performed periodically on patients taking the drug , especially those with liver dysfunction .
• Use in Pregnancy : In early pregnancy the safe use of methenamine hippurate is not established .
In the last trimester , safety is suggested , but not definitely proved .
No adverse effects on the fetus were seen in studies in pregnant rats and rabbits .
Methenamine hippurate taken during pregnancy can interfere with laboratory tests of urine estriol ( resulting in unmeasurably low values ) when acid hydrolysis is used in the laboratory procedure .
This interference is due to the presence in the urine of methenamine and / or formaldehyde .
Enzymatic hydrolysis , in place of acid hydrolysis , will circumvent this problem .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of methenamine hippurate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Methenamine hippurate is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency and severe hepatic insufficiency ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including methenamine hippurate should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When methenamine hippurate is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by methenamine hippurate or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Minor adverse reactions have been reported in less than 3 . 5 % of patients treated .
These reactions have included nausea , upset stomach , dysuria , and rash .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Micro Labs USA Inc . at 1 - 855 - 839 - 8195 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 tablet ( 1 g ) twice daily ( morning and night ) for adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age .
1 / 2 to 1 tablet ( 0 . 5 to 1 g ) twice daily ( morning and night ) for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age .
Since the antibacterial activity of methenamine hippurate is greater in acid urine , restriction of alkalinizing foods and medications is desirable .
If necessary , as indicated by urinary pH and clinical response , supplemental acidification of the urine should be instituted .
The efficacy of therapy should be monitored by repeated urine cultures .
HOW SUPPLIED White to off white colored , capsule shaped , biconvex tablets , debossed with " H " and " 1 " on either side of breakline on one side and other side plain with approximate length 20 . 00 mm , width 8 . 00 mm and thickness 7 . 40 mm .
Unit dose packages of 30 ( 3 x 10 ) NDC 60687 - 694 - 21 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister torn or broken .
PACKAGING INFORMATION American Health Packaging unit dose blisters ( see How Supplied section ) contain drug product from Micro Labs USA , Inc . as follows : ( 1 g / 30 UD ) NDC 60687 - 694 - 21 packaged from NDC 42571 - 332 Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 8469421 / 0622 F Package / Label Display Panel – Carton – 1 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 60687 - 694 - 21 Methenamine Hippurate Tablets , USP 1 g 30 Tablets ( 3 x 10 ) Rx Only Each Tablet Contains : Methenamine Hippurate , USP ...................................................... 1 g Usual Dosage : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
The drug product contained in this package is from NDC # 42571 - 332 , Micro Labs USA , Inc .
Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , Ohio 43217 769421 0469421 / 0622 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel – Blister – 1 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methenamine Hippurate Tablet , USP 1 g [ MULTIMEDIA ]
