Drug Facts Active ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • helps relieve the itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporary relief of irritation and burning • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • adult : unfold wipe .
When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor • flush or dispose of wipe in trash • * for best results , flush no more than one wipe at a time .
Other information store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Alcohol , Aloe , Citric Acid , Decyl Glucoside , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Sorbate , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Benzoate , Water .
Questions ?
Call 1 ( 844 ) 243 - 1241 or email hi @ curistrelief . com ** This product is not affiliated with the owner of the registered trademark Preparation H © Other Uses : For vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting , or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
For use as moist compress - if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold wipe to desired size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
Distributed by : Little Pharma , Inc .
New York , NY 10023 Made in USA of globally sourced materials curist Medicated Wipes Maximum Strength Compare to Preparation H © Medicated Wipes active ingredient ** Medicated Hemorrhoidal Wipes with Witch Hazel 50 % Everyday Use That Reduces Irritation Cools , Soothes , Cleanses , and Comforts No Fragrance Added , Flushable * , With Aloe 48 Wipes 6 in x 5 in ( 15 . 2 cm x 12 . 7 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
