Rev . 04 / 07 Rx Only WARNINGLithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels .
Facilities for prompt and accurate serum lithium determinations should be available before initiating therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
DESCRIPTION Lithium Carbonate is a white , light alkaline powder with molecular formula Li2CO3 and molecular weight 73 . 89 .
Lithium is an element of the alkali - metal group with atomic number 3 , atomic weight 6 . 94 and an emission line at 671 nm on the flame photometer .
Each extended - release tablet for oral administration contains 450 mg of lithium carbonate .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Alginic Acid , Corn Starch , Magnesium Stearate , Povidone , and Yellow Iron Oxide .
Lithium Carbonate Extended - Release Tablets 450 mg are designed to release a portion of the dose initially and the remainder gradually ; the release pattern of the extended release tablets reduces the variability in lithium blood levels seen with the immediate release dosage forms .
This product meets USP Drug Release Test 2 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Preclinical studies have shown that lithium alters sodium transport in nerve and muscle cells and effects a shift toward intraneuronal metabolism of catecholamines , but the specific biochemical mechanism of lithium action in mania is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lithium carbonate is indicated in the treatment of manic episodes of manic - depressive illness .
Maintenance therapy prevents or diminishes the intensity of subsequent episodes in those manic - depressive patients with a history of mania .
Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech , motor hyperactivity , reduced need for sleep , flight of ideas , grandiosity , elation , poor judgment , aggressiveness and possibly hostility .
When given to a patient experiencing a manic episode , lithium carbonate may produce a normalization of symptomatology within 1 to 3 weeks .
WARNINGS Lithium should generally not be given to patients with significant renal or cardiovascular disease , severe debilitation or dehydration , or sodium depletion , since the risk of lithium toxicity is very high in such patients .
If the psychiatric indication is life - threatening , and if such a patient fails to respond to other measures , lithium treatment may be undertaken with extreme caution , including daily serum lithium determinations and adjustment to the usually low doses ordinarily tolerated by these individuals .
In such instances , hospitalization is a necessity .
Chronic lithium therapy may be associated with diminution of renal concentrating ability , occasionally presenting as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , with polyuria and polydipsia .
Such patients should be carefully managed to avoid dehydration with resulting lithium retention and toxicity .
This condition is usually reversible when lithium is discontinued .
Morphologic changes with glomerular and interstitial fibrosis and nephron atrophy have been reported in patients on chronic lithium therapy .
Morphologic changes have also been seen in manic - depressive patients never exposed to lithium .
The relationship between renal functional and morphologic changes and their association with lithium therapy have not been established .
When kidney function is assessed , for baseline data prior to starting lithium therapy or thereafter , routine urinalysis and other tests may be used to evaluate tubular function ( e . g . , urine specific gravity or osmolality following a period of water deprivation , or 24 - hour urine volume ) and glomerular function ( e . g . , serum creatinine or creatinine clearance ) .
During lithium therapy , progressive or sudden changes in renal function , even within the normal range , indicate the need for reevaluation of treatment .
An encephalopathic syndrome ( characterized by weakness , lethargy , fever , tremulousness and confusion , extrapyramidal symptoms , leukocytosis , elevated serum enzymes , BUN and FBS ) has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus a neuroleptic .
In some instances , the syndrome was followed by irreversible brain damage .
Because of a possible causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and neuroleptics , patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurologic toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear .
This encephalopathic syndrome may be similar to or the same as neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) .
Lithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Outpatients and their families should be warned that the patient must discontinue lithium carbonate therapy and contact his physician if such clinical signs of lithium toxicity as diarrhea , vomiting , tremor , mild ataxia , drowsiness or muscular weakness occur .
Lithium carbonate may impair mental and / or physical abilities .
Caution patients about activities requiring alertness ( e . g . , operating vehicles or machinery ) .
Lithium may prolong the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , neuromuscular blocking agents should be given with caution to patients receiving lithium .
Pregnancy : Adverse effects on implantation in rats , embryo viability in mice and metabolism in vitro of rat testes and human spermatozoa have been attributed to lithium , as have teratogenicity in subman - nalian species and cleft palates in mice .
In humans , lithium carbonate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Data from lithium birth registries suggest an increase in cardiac and other anomalies , especially Ebstein ' s anomaly .
If this drug is used in women of childbearing potential , or during pregnancy , or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Lithium is excreted in human milk .
Nursing should not be undertaken during lithium therapy except in rare and unusual circumstances where , in the view of the physician , the potential benefits to the mother outweigh possible hazards to the child .
Pediatric Use : Since information regarding the safety and effectiveness of lithium carbonate in children under 12 years of age is not available , its use in such patients is not recommended .
There has been a report of a transient syndrome of acute dystonia and hyperreflexia occurring in a 15 kg child who ingested 300 mg of lithium carbonate .
Geriatric Use : Elderly patients often require lower lithium dosages to achieve therapeutic serum levels .
They may also exhibit adverse reactions at serum levels ordinarily tolerated by younger patients .
PRECAUTIONS General : The ability to tolerate lithium is greater during the acute manic phase and decreases when manic symptoms subside ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The distribution space of lithium approximates that of total body water .
Lithium is primarily excreted in urine with insignificant excretion in feces .
Renal excretion of lithium is proportional to its plasma concentration .
The half - life of elimination of lithium is approximately 24 hours .
Lithium decreases sodium reabsorption by the renal tubules which could lead to sodium depletion .
Therefore , it is essential for the patient to maintain a normal diet , including salt , and an adequate fluid intake ( 2500 to 3000 mL ) at least during the initial stabilization period .
Decreased tolerance to lithium has been reported to ensue from protracted sweating or diarrhea and , if such occur , supplemental fluid and salt should be administered under careful medical supervision and lithium intake reduced or suspended until the condition is resolved .
In addition to sweating and diarrhea , concomitant infection with elevated temperatures may also necessitate a temporary reduction or cessation of medication .
Previously existing underlying thyroid disorders do not necessarily constitute a contraindication to lithium treatment ; where hypothyroidism exists , careful monitoring of thyroid function during lithium stabilization and maintenance allows for correction of changing thyroid parameters , if any ; where hypothyroidism occurs during lithium stabilization and maintenance , supplemental thyroid treatment may be used .
Drug Interactions : Caution should be used when lithium and diuretics are used concomitantly because diuretic - induced sodium loss may reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase serum lithium levels with risk of lithium toxicity .
Patients receiving such combined therapy should have serum lithium levels monitored closely and the lithium dosage adjusted if necessary .
Lithium levels should be closely monitored when patients initiate or discontinue NSAID use .
In some cases , lithium toxicity has resulted from interactions between an NSAID and lithium .
Indomethacin and piroxicam have been reported to increase significantly , steady - state plasma lithium concentrations .
There is also evidence that other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents , including the selective cyclooxgenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors , have the same effect .
In a study conducted in healthy subjects , mean steady - state lithium plasma levels increased approximately 17 % in subjects receiving lithium 450 mg b . i . d . with celecoxib 200 mg b . i . d . as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone .
Concurrent use of metronidazole with lithium may provoke lithium toxicity due to reduced renal clearance .
Patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely .
There is evidence that angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , such as enalapril and captopril , and angotension II receptor antagonists , such as losartan , may substantially increase steady - state plasma lithium levels , sometimes resulting in lithium toxicity .
When such combinations are used , lithium dosage may need to be decreased , and plasma lithium levels should be measured more often .
Concurrent use of calcium channel blocking agents with lithium may increase the risk of neurotoxicity in the form of ataxia , tremors , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and / or tinnitus .
Caution is recommended .
The concomitant administration of lithium with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors should be undertaken with caution as this combination has been reported to result in symptoms such as diarrhea , confusion , tremor , dizziness and agitation .
The following drugs can lower serum lithium concentrations by increasing urinary lithium excretion : acetazolamide , urea , xanthine preparations and alkalinizing agents such as sodium bicarbonate .
The following have also been shown to interact with lithium : methyldopa , phenytoin and carbamazepine .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The occurrence and severity of adverse reactions are generally directly related to serum lithium concentrations as well as to individual patient sensitivity to lithium , and generally occur more frequently and with greater severity at higher concentrations .
Adverse reactions may be encountered at serum lithium levels below 1 . 5 mEq / L .
Mild to moderate adverse reactions may occur at levels from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 mEq / L , and moderate to severe reactions may be seen at levels of 2 . 0 mEq / L and above .
Fine hand tremor , polyuna and mild thirst may occur during initial therapy for the acute manic phase , and may persist throughout treatment .
Transient and mild nausea and general discomfort may also appear during the first few days of lithium administration .
These side effects usually subside with continued treatment or a temporary reduction or cessation of dosage .
If persistent , cessation of lithium therapy may be required .
Diarrhea , vomiting , drowsiness , muscular weakness and lack of coordination may be early signs of lithium intoxication , and can occur at lithium levels below 2 . 0 mEq / L .
At higher levels , ataxia , giddiness , tinnitus , blurred vision and a large output of dilute urine may be seen .
Serum lithium levels above 3 . 0 mEq / L may produce a complex clinical picture , involving multiple organs and organ systems .
Serum lithium levels should not be permitted to exceed 2 . 0 mEq / L during the acute treatment phase .
The following reactions have been reported and appear to be related to serum lithium levels , including levels within the therapeutic range : Neuromuscular / Central Nervous System - tremor , muscle hyperirritability ( fasciculations , twitching , clonic movements of whole limbs ) , hypertonicity , ataxia , choreoathetotic movements , hyperactive deep tendon reflex , extrapyramidal symptoms including acute dystonia , cogwheel rigidity , blackout spells , epileptiform seizures , slurred speech , dizziness , vertigo , downbeat nystagmus , incontinence of urine or feces , somnolence , psychomotor retardation , restlessness , confusion , stupor , coma , tongue movements , tics , tinnitus ; hallucinations , poor memory , slowed intellectual functioning , startled response , worsening of organic brain syndromes , myasthenia gravis ( rarely ) ; Cardiovascular – cardiac arrhythmia , hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse , bradycardia , sinus node dysfunction with severe bradycardia ( which may result in syncope ) ; Gastrointestinal - anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , gastritis , salivary gland swelling , abdominal pain , excessive salivation , flatulence , indigestion ; Genitourinary - glycosuria , decreased creatinine clearance , albuminuria , oliguria , and symptoms of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus including polyuria , thirst and polydipsia ; Dermatologic - drying and thinning of hair , alopecia , anesthesia of skin , acne , chronic folliculitis , xerosis cutis , psoriasis or its exacerbation , generalized pruritus with or without , rash , cutaneous ulcers , angioedema ; Autonomic - blurred vision , dry mouth , impotence / sexual dysfunction ; Thyroid Abnormalities - euthyroid goiter and / or hypothyroidism ( including myxedema ) accompanied by lower T3 and T4 .
I131 uptake may be elevated .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Paradoxically , rare cases of hyperthyroidism have been reported ; EEG Changes - diffuse slowing , widening of the frequency spectrum , potentiation and disorganization of background rhythm ; EKG Changes - reversible flattening , isoelectricity or inversion of T - waves ; Miscellaneous - fatigue , lethargy , transient scotomata , exophthalmos , dehydration , weight loss , leukocytosis , headache , transient hyperglycemia , hypercalcemia , hyperparathyroidism , excessive weight gain , edematous swelling of ankles or wrists , metallic taste , dysgeusia / taste distortion , salty taste , thirst , swollen lips , tightness in chest , swollen and / or painful joints , fever , polyarthralgia , dental caries .
Some reports of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , hyperparathyroidism and hypothyroidism which persist after lithium discontinuation have been received .
A few reports have been received of the development of painful discoloration of fingers and toes and coldness of the extremities within one day of the starting of treatment with lithium .
The mechanism through which these symptoms ( resembling Raynaud ' s syndrome ) developed is not known .
Recovery followed discontinuance .
Cases of pseudotumor cerebri ( increased intracranial pressure and papilledema ) have been reported with lithium use .
If undetected , this condition may result in enlargement of the blind spot , constriction of visual fields and eventual blindness due to optic atrophy .
Lithium should be discontinued , if clinically possible , if this syndrome occurs .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic levels for lithium are close to the therapeutic levels .
It is therefore important that patients and their families be cautioned to watch for early toxic symptoms and to discontinue the drug and inform the physician should they occur .
Toxic symptoms are listed in detail under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
TreatmentNo specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known .
Early symptoms of lithium toxicity can usually be treated by reduction or cessation of dosage of the drug and resumption of the treatment at a lower dose after 24 to 48 hours .
In severe cases of lithium poisoning , the first and foremost goal of treatment consists of elimination of this ion from the patient .
Treatment is essentially the same as that used in barbiturate poisoning : 1 ) gastric lavage , 2 ) correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , and 3 ) regulation of kidney function .
Urea , mannitol and aminophylline all produce significant increases in lithium excretion .
Hemodialysis is an effective and rapid means of removing the ion from the severely toxic patient .
Infection prophylaxis , regular chest X - rays and preservation of adequate respiration are essential .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Doses of extended - release tablets are usually given b . i . d . ( approximately 12 - hour intervals ) .
When initiating therapy with extended - release lithium , dosage must be individualized according to serum levels and clinical response .
When switching a patient from immediate - release capsules to the lithium carbonate extended - release tablets , give the same total daily dose when possible .
Most patients on maintenance therapy are stabilized on 900 mg daily , e . g . , 450 mg lithium carbonate extended - release b . i . d .
When the previous dosage of immediate - release lithium is not a multiple of 450 mg , for example , 1500 mg , initiate lithium extended - release tablet at the multiple of 450 mg nearest to , but below , the original daily dosage , i . e . , 1350 mg .
When the two doses are unequal , give the larger dose in the evening .
In the above example , with a total daily dosage of 1350 mg , generally 450 mg lithium carbonate extended - release should be given in the morning and 900 mg lithium carbonate extended - release in the evening .
If desired , the total daily dosage of 1350 mg can be given in three equal 450 mg lithium carbonate extended - release doses .
These patients should be monitored at 1 to 2 week intervals , and dosage adjusted if necessary , until stable and satisfactory serum levels and clinical state are achieved .
When patients require closer titration than that available with doses of lithium carbonate extended - release in increments of 450 mg , immediate - release capsules should be used .
Acute Mania - Optimal patient response to lithium carbonate can usually be established and maintained with 1800 mg per day in divided doses .
Such doses will normally produce the desired serum lithium level ranging between 1 and 1 . 5 mEq / L .
Dosage must be individualized according to serum levels and clinical response .
Regular monitoring of the patient ' s clinical state and serum lithium levels is necessary .
Serum levels should be determined twice per week during the acute phase , and until the serum level and clinical condition of the patient have been stabilized .
Long - Term Control - The desirable serum lithium levels are 0 . 6 to 1 . 2 mEq / L .
Dosage will vary from one individual to another , but usually 900 mg to 1200 mg per day in divided doses will maintain this level .
Serum lithium levels in uncomplicated cases receiving maintenance therapy during remission should be monitored at least every two months .
Patients unusually sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum levels below 1 mEq / L .
N . B . - Blood samples for serum lithium determinations should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable ( i . e . , 8 to 12 hours after the previous dose ) .
Total reliance must not be placed on serum levels alone .
Accurate patient evaluation requires both clinical and laboratory analysis .
Elderly patients often respond to reduced dosage , and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum levels ordinarily tolerated by younger patients .
HOW SUPPLIED Lithium Carbonate Extended - Release Tablets USP , 450 mg are supplied as Yellow , Round Tablets , Scored on one side and Imprinted “ WW 277 ” on the other side and are available in : Bottles of 20 NDC 54868 - 5340 - 1 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 5340 - 0 Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised April 2007 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Lithium Carbonate Extended - Release Tablets USP 450 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
