Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 12 % w / v Purpose Antibacterial Uses • hand wipes to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use • for use when soap and water are not available Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire / flame For external use only Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product • do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water • do not ingest Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • remove the plastic cover and pull the tip of the first wipe in the center of the roll • insert the tip of the scarf into the center opening of the cover from the bottom up • replace the cap , pull the first wipe and the rest will come off automatically • wipe hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • dispose of the wipe in the trash • supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing Other information • store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients fragrance , propylene glycol Questions ?
+ 1 - 844 - 805 - 8838 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM DERMATOLOGICALLY TESTED SOFT TOUCH PRACTICAL AND EFFECTIVE USE READ THE LABEL CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE PRODUCT Do not mix with other products .
Do not use for food disinfection .
Do not reuse containers .
Antiseptic Wet Wipes are practical and ready to use .
They have been specially developed to reduce bacteria on hands Distributed by : Wipes Solutions Inc .
1728 NE Miami Gardens DR . Ste . 209 , Miami , FL 33179 Made in Brazil info @ wipessolutions . com Directions for use : Open the package and use the wet wipe After use , dispose of the wipe in the trash DO NOT FLUSH Shelf life 24 months / supplyclean @ supplyclean Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
