Active ingredient Purpose Oxymetazoline HCL 0 . 05 % .............................................................................. Nasal decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • sinusitis • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland .
When using this product do not use more than directed • do not use more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worse • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask ahealth professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor .
• shake well before use .
To open , rotate cap to align the marks .
Squeeze cap on both sides in a counterclockwise turn and pull off to remove .
To spray , remove clamp and hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting the head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after each use and snap cap back onto the bottle .
Other information • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) • retain carton for future reference on full labeling Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , dibasic sodium phosphate hydrate , disodium EDTA , distilled water , DL - camphor , eucalyptol , l - menthol , monobasic sodium phosphate dihydrate , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol DISTRIBUTED BY : WINCO FOODS , LLC BOISE , ID 83704 MADE IN KOREA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
