Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Psoriasis Use for relief of the symptoms of psoriasis .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • on open wounds , infected or cracked skin .
• if you are sensitive or allergic to any of the ingredients used in this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition that covers a large area of the body .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes and if contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• avoid contact with the mouth , genitals and mucous membranes .
• avoid direct sunlight after use .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • gently apply a layer to affected areas one to three times daily or as directed by a doctor .
• please allow the cream to stay in contact with your skin for as much time as possible to have full absorption before reapplying .
Other information Store in a cool dark place at room temperature at 68 ° F - 77 ° F . Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Safflower ( Carthamus tinctorius ) Seed , Banyan Tree ( Ficus benghalensis ) Bark , Golden Shower Tree ( Cassia fistula ) Whole plant , Coconut ( Cocos nucifera ) Oil , Glycerin , Glyceryl Monostearate , Polysorbate 80 , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Palmitate , Stearic Acid , Cetyl Alcohol , Triethanolamine , Phenoxyethanol , Dimethicone , Butylated Hydroxyanisole , Butylated Hydroxytoluene .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 743 - 1718 Mon - Fri 9 : 00 A . M . - 5 : 00 P . M . FOR PSORIASIS with 2 % Salicylic Acid • Controls Recurrence • Relieves Itching • Reduces Scaling • Dermo - Cosmetic • 100 % Steroid - Free • No Added Fragrance Distributed by : SUMMER HERBAL INC . , 604 Mallard Lane , Oak Brook , IL 60523 You may report serious side effects to the above U . S . address .
PRODUCT OF INDIA Soraresal Cream relieves itching , calms irritation and reduces scaling for easy relief from psoriasis .
The active ingredient of 2 % salicylic acid effectively makes your skin clear .
Sustainably harvested plants , beautify and moisturize the skin with powerful oils .
Control psoriasis easily with Soraresal .
Manufactured for : Atrimed Pharmaceuticals Pvt . Ltd .
Manufactured By : BioMylz Pvt . Ltd . at Building No . 1 , # 21 - D , 2 nd Phase Peenya Industrial Area Bangalore , Karnataka 560058 , India Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
