1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE IMPEKLO lotion is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses , in patients 18 years of age or older ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use : Do not in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis .
1 . 1 Indication IMPEKLO lotion is a super - high potent topical corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 18 years of age or older .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use IMPEKLO lotion should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis .
Use in patients under 18 years of age is not recommended due to numerically high rates of HPA axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION IMPEKLO lotion is for topical use only , and not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Avoid use of IMPEKLO lotion on the face , axillae , or groin and avoid use if there is atrophy at the treatment site .
IMPEKLO lotion should be applied to the affected skin areas twice daily and rubbed in gently and completely .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Wash hands after each application .
The total dosage should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Do not use more than 10 pump actuations per application twice daily or 20 pump actuations per day for more than 7 days .
IMPEKLO lotion contains a topical corticosteroid ; therefore treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses and up to 2 additional weeks in localized lesions ( less than 10 % body surface area ) of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis that have not sufficiently improved after the initial 2 weeks of treatment .
Discontinue use when control is achieved .
Unless directed by physician , IMPEKLO lotion should not be used with occlusive dressings .
• • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • • IMPEKLO lotion should be applied directly onto the affected skin areas twice daily ( not to exceed 10 actuations / application or 20 actuations / day ) and rubbed in gently .
( 2 ) • • Limit treatment to 2 weeks .
For moderate to severe plaque psoriasis , treatment may be extended for additional 2 weeks for localized lesions that have not sufficiently improved .
( 2 ) • • Total dosage should not exceed 50 g per week ( i . e . , 20 actuations / day for 7 days ) .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use on the face , axillae or groin .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue when control is achieved .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS IMPEKLO lotion is a white to off white , opaque to translucent , homogenous and lump free lotion without any phase separation packed in a white bottle with a metered - dose pump having an integral pump locking feature .
Each pump actuation delivers on average 0 . 15 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP in 0 . 30 g of lotion .
Lotion , 0 . 05 % w / w ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis at the lowest doses tested .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • IMPEKLO may increase the risk of cataract and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate .
These reactions include folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Effects on the Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has caused reversible adrenal suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
The effect of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % on HPA axis function was assessed in adults in two trials , one for psoriasis and one for atopic dermatitis .
In total , 8 of 10 evaluable subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis experienced adrenal suppression following 4 weeks of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % therapy .
In follow - up testing , 1 of 2 subjects remained suppressed after 8 days .
Furthermore , 5 of 9 evaluable subjects with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis experienced adrenal suppression following 2 weeks of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % therapy .
Of the 3 subjects that had follow - up testing , one subjects failed to recover adrenal function 7 days post - treatment .
The proportion of subjects suppressed may be underestimated because the adrenal glands were stimulated weekly with cosyntropin in these trials .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , young age , concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products and use in patients with liver failure .
Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , glycosuria , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
An adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
Use in patients under 18 years of age is not recommended due to numerically high rates of HPA axis suppression [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Use of topical corticosteroids , including IMPEKLO , may increase the risks of glaucoma and posterior subcapsular cataract .
Glaucoma and cataracts have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical corticosteroid products , including topical clobetasol products .
Avoid contact of IMPEKLO with eyes .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 3 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae , miliaria , skin atrophy and telangiectasia .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
Clobetasol propionate is not recommended in patients with acne vulgaris , rosacea or perioral dermatitis .
5 . 4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 5 Concomitant Skin Infections In the presence of dermatologic infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of IMPEKLO lotion should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Effects on the Endocrine System [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 1 % ) are skin atrophy , telangiectasia , discomfort skin and skin dry ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In controlled , clinical trials with clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % , the following adverse reactions have been reported : burning / stinging , skin dryness , irritation , erythema , folliculitis , pruritus , skin atrophy , and telangiectasia .
The pooled incidence of local adverse reactions in trials for psoriasis and atopic dermatitis with clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % at 1 % or greater was : Table 1 : Adverse Reactions with Incidence ≥ 1 % in Clinical TrialsAdverse Reaction Incidence Skin Atrophy 4 . 2 % Telangiectasia 3 . 2 % Discomfort Skin 1 . 3 % Skin Dry 1 . 0 % Most local adverse events were rated as mild to moderate and they are not affected by age , race or gender .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % .
• • Endocrine Disorders : Cushing ’ s syndrome , adrenal suppression • • Eye Disorders : cataracts , glaucoma and increased intraocular pressure .
• • Skin : rash , pain of skin , skin exfoliation , skin chapped , scaling , induration / papulation , lichenification .
• • Other : psoriasis ( aggravation ) , plaque elevation , excoriation .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data for the use of IMPEKLO during pregnancy to inform any drug - associated risks of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Published data report an increased risk of low birthweight with the use of greater than 300 grams of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid during a pregnancy .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use IMPEKLO on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , increased malformations , such as cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities , were observed after subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate to pregnant mice and rabbits during the period of organogenesis .
The available data do not support relevant comparisons of systemic clobetasol propionate exposures achieved in the animal studies to exposures observed in humans after topical use of IMPEKLO .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Multiple observational studies found no significant associations between maternal use of topical corticosteroids of any potency and congenital malformations , preterm delivery , or fetal mortality .
However , when the dispensed amount of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid exceeded 300 g during the entire pregnancy , use was associated with an increase in low birth weight infants .
In addition , a small cohort study , in which 28 sub - Saharan women using potent topical corticosteroids ( 27 / 28 used clobetasol propionate 0 . 05 % ) for skin lightening during pregnancy , noted a higher incidence of low birth weight infants in the exposed group .
The majority of exposed subjects treated large areas of the body ( a mean quantity of 60 g / month ( range , 12 - 170 g ) over long periods of time .
Animal Data In embryofetal development studies in mice , subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate during the period of organogenesis resulted in malformations at all dose levels , ranging from 0 . 03 to 1 mg / kg .
Malformations included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities ; fetotoxicity was observed at the high dose ( 1 mg / kg ) .
In an embryofetal development study in rabbits , subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate during the period of organogenesis resulted in malformations at doses of 0 . 003 and 0 . 01 mg / kg .
Malformations included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study in rats , clobetasol propionate was administered subcutaneously to female rats twice daily ( 0 , 12 . 5 , 25 , and 50 µg / kg / day ) from gestation day 7 through lactation day 25 .
In dams , body weight gain and food consumption were reduced during gestation at all doses and prolonged delivery occurred at the high dose .
A maternal no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) could not be determined and the reproductive NOEL for dams was 25 µg / kg / day .
In offspring , doses ≥ 25 µg / kg / day increased incidence of stillbirths , reduced pup body weights on lactation days 1 and 7 , increased pup mortality , increased the incidence of umbilical hernia , increased the incidence of cysts on the kidney , and significantly reduced epididymides and testes weights .
However , no effects were observed on the mating and fertility of the offspring .
The no - observed - adverse - effect - level ( NOAEL ) for viability and growth in the offspring was 12 . 5 µg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of clobetasol propionate in breast milk or its effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and can suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of clobetasol propionate could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for IMPEKLO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from clobetasol propionate or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breast milk , use IMPEKLO on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply IMPEKLO directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % in pediatric patients is not recommended due to the potential for HPA axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The HPA axis suppression potential of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % has been studied in adolescents ( 12 to 17 years of age ) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis covering a minimum of 20 % of the total body surface area .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % .
After 2 weeks of treatment , 9 out of 14 of the subjects experienced adrenal suppression .
One out of 4 subjects who were retested remained suppressed two weeks post - treatment .
Because of higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to adequately determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be made with caution , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied IMPEKLO lotion can be absorbed in sufficient amount to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION IMPEKLO ( clobetasol propionate ) lotion contains clobetasol propionate , a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid , for topical use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Clobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - propionate , with the empirical formula C25H32CIFO5 , and a molecular weight of 466 . 97 ( CAS Registry Number 25122 - 46 - 7 ) .
The following is the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate , USP is a white to almost white crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water .
IMPEKLO ( clobetasol propionate ) lotion is a white to off white , opaque to translucent , homogenous and lump free lotion composed of carbomer 1342 , hypromellose , mineral oil , PEG - 6 isostearate , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
Each pump actuation delivers 0 . 15 mg of clobetasol propionate in 0 . 30 g of lotion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay IMPEKLO lotion is in the super - high range of potency as demonstrated in vasoconstrictor studies in healthy subjects when compared with other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression In adults treated with clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % , hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , rate was 80 % in subjects with psoriasis and 56 % in subjects with atopic dermatitis .
In adolescent subjects the rate of HPA axis suppression was 64 % in subjects with atopic dermatitis .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and occlusion .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
There are no human data regarding the distribution of corticosteroids to body organs following topical application .
Nevertheless , once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through metabolic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
They are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
In addition , some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study , clobetasol propionate was topically applied to rats at concentrations up to 0 . 005 % .
No drug - related increase in tumor incidence was observed .
Clobetasol propionate was negative in the in vitro mammalian chromosomal aberration test and in the in vivo mammalian erythrocyte micronucleus test .
In a fertility and reproductive toxicity study , clobetasol propionate was administered subcutaneously to rats at doses of 0 , 12 . 5 , 25 , and 50 μg / kg / day .
Males were treated beginning 70 days before mating and females beginning 15 days before mating through day 7 of gestation .
A NOEL could not be determined for paternal and maternal toxicity or male reproductive toxicity because of decreased weight gain in both sexes and increased seminal vesicle weights in males .
The female reproductive NOEL was 12 . 5 μg / kg / day because higher doses reduced the number of estrous cycles during the pre - cohabitation period and increased in the number of nonviable embryos .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % in psoriasis and atopic dermatitis has been demonstrated in two adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
The first trial was conducted in subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 4 weeks with either clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % or vehicle lotion .
Trial results demonstrated that the efficacy of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % in treating moderate to severe plaque psoriasis was superior to that of vehicle .
At the end of treatment ( 4 weeks ) , 30 of 82 subjects ( 36 . 6 % ) treated with clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % compared with 0 of 29 ( 0 % ) treated with vehicle achieved success .
Success was defined as a score of none or very mild ( no or very slight clinical signs or symptoms of erythema , plaque elevation , or scaling ) on the Global Severity scale of psoriasis .
The second trial was conducted in subjects with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with either clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % or vehicle lotion .
Trial results demonstrated that the efficacy of clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % in treating moderate to severe atopic dermatitis was superior to that of vehicle .
At the end of treatment ( 2 weeks ) , 41 of 96 subjects ( 42 . 7 % ) treated with clobetasol propionate lotion , 0 . 05 % compared with 4 of 33 ( 12 . 1 % ) treated with vehicle achieved success .
Success was defined as a score of none or very mild ( no or very slight clinical signs or symptoms of erythema , induration / papulation , oozing / crusting , or pruritus ) on the Global Severity scale of atopic dermatitis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING IMPEKLO ™ lotion , 0 . 05 % is a white to off white , opaque to translucent , homogenous and lump free lotion without any phase separation provided in a white bottle with a metered - dose pump having an integral pump locking feature .
Each pump actuation delivers 0 . 15 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP in 0 . 30 g of lotion .
The metered - dose pump is capable of dispensing not less than 138 actuations to deliver not less than 41 . 4 g of lotion .
It is available as follows : NDC 49502 - 537 - 35 one metered dose pump contains 68 g lotion Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all administration instructions or all possible adverse or unintended effects .
Advise patients using IMPEKLO lotion of the following information and instructions : Important Administration Instructions • • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid use on the face or in skin - fold areas , such as the underarms or groin .
Avoid contact with the eyes or other mucous membranes .
Wash hands after use .
• • Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
Avoid use of IMPEKLO longer than the prescribed time period .
• • Avoid use for more than 50 g per week ( i . e . , 20 actuations / day for 7 days ) of IMPEKLO lotion .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Effects on the Endocrine System IMPEKLO may cause HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients that use of topical corticosteroids , including IMPEKLO , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Topical corticosteroids may have other endocrine effects .
Concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids .
Patients should inform their physician ( s ) that they are using IMPEKLO if surgery is contemplated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Advise patients to report any visual symptoms to their healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions Advise patients that local reactions and skin atrophy are more likely to occur with occlusive use or prolonged use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use IMPEKLO on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise a woman to use IMPEKLO on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply IMPEKLO directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Patient Information IMPEKLO ™ ( im pek ' loe ) ( clobetasol propionate ) lotion Important : IMPEKLO lotion is for use on the skin only .
Do not get IMPEKLO lotion near or in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
What is IMPEKLO lotion ?
IMPEKLO lotion is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used on the skin ( topical ) for the relief of swelling ( inflammation ) and itching caused by certain skin conditions in people 18 years of age and older .
IMPEKLO lotion should not be used for the treatment of acne vulgaris , rosacea or red , dry itchy skin ( dermatitis ) around the mouth .
IMPEKLO lotion is not recommended in children under 18 years of age .
Before you use IMPEKLO lotion , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have had irritation or other skin reactions to a steroid medicine in the past .
• • have a skin infection .
You may need medicine to treat the skin infection before using IMPEKLO lotion .
• • have diabetes .
• • have adrenal gland problems .
• • have liver problems .
• • plan to have surgery .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if IMPEKLO lotion can harm your unborn baby .
If you use IMPEKLO lotion during pregnancy , use IMPEKLO lotion on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if IMPEKLO lotion passes into your breast milk .
If you use IMPEKLO lotion while breastfeeding , use IMPEKLO lotion on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
Do not apply IMPEKLO lotion directly to the nipple and areola to avoid getting IMPEKLO lotion into your baby ’ s mouth .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Do not use other products containing corticosteroid medicine during treatment with IMPEKLO lotion without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should I use IMPEKLO lotion ?
See the “ Instructions for Use ” for detailed information about the right way to apply IMPEKLO lotion .
• • Use IMPEKLO lotion exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Apply IMPEKLO lotion 2 times each day to the affected skin areas and rub in gently and completely .
• • You should not use IMPEKLO lotion on your face , underarms ( armpits ) , groin , or in areas with thinning skin ( atrophy ) .
• • Do not bandage , cover or wrap your treated area unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Do not use more than 50 grams of IMPEKLO lotion in 7 days .
Do not use more than 10 pumps of IMPEKLO lotion at one time twice daily or 20 pumps per day for more than 7 days .
• • Talk to your healthcare provider if your skin does not improve after 2 weeks of treatment with IMPEKLO lotion .
• • Wash your hands after using IMPEKLO lotion .
What are the possible side effects of IMPEKLO lotion ?
IMPEKLO lotion may cause serious side effects , including : • • IMPEKLO lotion can pass through your skin .
Too much IMPEKLO lotion passing through your skin can cause your adrenal glands to stop working .
• • Cushing ’ s syndrome , a condition that happens when the body is exposed to too much of the hormone cortisol .
• • High blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) .
• • Vision problems .
IMPEKLO lotion may increase your chance of developing vision problems such as cataract ( s ) and glaucoma .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop blurred vision or other vision problems during treatment with IMPEKLO lotion .
• • Skin reactions at the treated skin site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any skin reactions or skin infections .
• • Effects on growth and weight in children .
The most common side effects of IMPEKLO lotion include thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) , widening of small veins in the skin , skin discomfort and skin dryness .
These are not all of the possible side effects of IMPEKLO lotion .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store IMPEKLO lotion ?
• • Store IMPEKLO lotion at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Do not freeze IMPEKLO lotion .
Keep IMPEKLO lotion and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of IMPEKLO lotion .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use IMPEKLO lotion for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give IMPEKLO lotion to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about IMPEKLO lotion that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in IMPEKLO lotion ?
Active ingredient : clobetasol propionate Inactive ingredients : carbomer 1342 , hypromellose , mineral oil , PEG - 6 isostearate , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 , India IMPEKLO is a trademark of Mylan Specialty L . P . For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or go to www . impeklo . com .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 5 / 2020 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IMPEKLO ™ ( im pek ' loe ) ( clobetasol propionate ) lotion This Instructions for Use contains information on how to apply IMPEKLO lotion .
Important : IMPEKLO lotion is for use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not get IMPEKLO lotion near or in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
IMPEKLO lotion comes in a pump bottle that delivers a measured amount of IMPEKLO lotion each time you press the pump .
Before you use a new bottle of IMPEKLO lotion for the first time , you will need to prime the pump .
Step 1 : Priming the IMPEKLO lotion pump ( do this step only 1 time for each bottle ) .
• • Remove and keep the large cap from the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Remove and keep the small cap around the tip of the pump .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Turn the pump counter clockwise ( left ) from the “ lock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position to the “ unlock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • To prime the pump , slowly push the pump top down all the way 10 times .
Dispense this portion of the medicine onto a paper towel and throw it away in the trash .
Your IMPEKLO lotion pump is ready to use .
Note : If you are not ready to apply IMPEKLO lotion , turn the pump clockwise ( right ) from the “ unlock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position to the “ lock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position .
Unlock the pump when you are ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Applying IMPEKLO lotion to your skin .
• • Push the pump top down firmly and fully to dispense IMPEKLO lotion into the palm of your hand or directly onto the affected skin areas .
You should keep a count of how many times you push the pump down to dispense the IMPEKLO lotion .
• • Apply only enough IMPEKLO lotion to cover the affected skin areas and rub in gently and completely .
Do not push down on the pump more than 10 times each time you apply IMPEKLO lotion or more than 20 times each day .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : After using IMPEKLO lotion • Turn the pump clockwise ( right ) from the “ unlock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position to the “ lock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position .
• Place the small cap back around the tip of the pump .
Place the large cap over the top of the bottle .
Wash your hands after applying IMPEKLO lotion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 , India IMPEKLO is a trademark of Mylan Specialty L . P .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 5 / 2020 Revised : 5 / 2020 CLOBLON : R1p / PL : CLOBLON : PIL : R1p / PL : CLOBLON : IFU : R1p 265498 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 0 . 05 % NDC 49502 - 537 - 35 Rx only Impeklo ™ Clobetasol Propionate Lotion 0 . 05 % Metered - Dose Pump 0 . 15 mg of clobetasol propionate per pump actuation * * Each actuation delivers 0 . 30 g of lotion Metered - dose pump capable of dispensing not less than 138 actuations to deliver not less than 41 . 4 g of lotion .
Topical Lotion For external use only .
Not for eye use .
68 g Contains : Clobetasol propionate USP , carbomer 1342 , hypromellose , mineral oil , PEG - 6 isostearate , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
Recommended Dosage : Apply twice daily , once in the morning and once at night ( not to exceed 10 actuations / application or 20 actuations / day for more than 7 days ) .
Use only enough to cover the affected areas .
Do not apply ImpekloTM to the face , underarms , or groin , and avoid contact with eyes and lips .
See accompanying prescribing information .
Warnings : Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Not a child resistant closure .
Storage : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Impeklo is a trademark of Mylan Specialty L . P . © 2020 Mylan Specialty L . P . Code No . : 25 / 01 / 2016 MS : LUP : 537 : 1 C : R4 Instructions for Pump Use : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the large cap [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the small cap around the tip of the pump [ MULTIMEDIA ] Turn the pump counter clockwise from the “ lock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position to the “ unlock ” ( [ MULTIMEDIA ] ) position Manufactured for : Mylan Specialty L . P . Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) - 454 775 , INDIA Mylan . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
