Drug Facts Active Ingredient 75 % Ethyl Alcohol ( 12 % v / v ) Benzalkonium Chloride ( 0 . 10 % v / v ) Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Apply on skin and surface to decrease bacteria and germs that may cause disease • recommended for repeated use .
Directions • Remove top cover • pull up wipe corner from center of the roll and thread through hole in the cover • open center cap on cover to remove wipe • unfold wipe to disinfect skin and surface • let air dry your skin and surface • dispose wipe after using • when done using , close center cap carefully to prevent loss moisture • when apply on dirty surface , you must clean with another wipe before disinfecting .
Warnings For external use only : hand , arm , leg and surface .
Flammable , keep away from fire , flame or heat .
When using this product • keep out of eye , In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water • avoid contact with broken or sensitive skin • do not use on face • do not put on your mouth .
Stop use ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • If the condition persists more than 72 hours consults with doctor .
Keep out of reach of children • if put on mouth or swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other information • Not recommended for infants use • for children under 6 , must use under adult supervision • do not use as diaper wipe • rinse toys or food with clean water after disinfecting • do not use on unpainted wood • do not apply on dishes , glassware or utensils to disinfect Storage and disposal • store wipe in original container in a cool , or dry place • keep container tightly closed • do not reuse or refill this container • do not flush • dispose wipes after using and put container in the trash .
Inactive ingredients Purified Water , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Didecyldimonium Chloride , Propylene Glycol , Glycerin , Fragrance .
KILLS 99 . 9 % OF GERMS CONTAINING ETHYL ALCOHOL BLEACH FREE Sanitize your hand and surface with wet alcohol wipes to decrease germs and bacteria .
Our wipes formulated to be gentle on skin without dyes , parabens or harsh chemicals .
so that it can be used safely on your hand and washable non - porous surfaces .
You can clean and disinfect by wiping surface area until visible wet , allow to remain wet until air dry .
GENTLE ON HAND BEDROOM KITCHEN BATHROOM APPLIANCES HOME OR OFFICE MADE IN CHINA Distributed By ISSEEY TM P . O . Box 2015 Alief , TX - 77411 Questions ?
info . isseey @ gmail . com www . isseey . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
