Active ingredients Camphor 3 . 5 % Capsicum providing capsaicin 0 . 25 % Menthol 3 . 05 % Purpose External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Do not use • on wounds • on large parts of the body for extended periods of time • on irritated or damaged skin • if properties of this product changes When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly • supervise use by children • use caution if prone to allergies • check carefully for hypersensitivity ( skin reactions ) • avoid placing on extremely hairy areas of skin to avoid irritation upon removing the patch Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using other medications • if pregnant or nursing Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive irritation of the skin develops • nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs • when using for pain of arthritis : • • pain persists for more than 10 days • redness is present • in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Clean the affected area .
Remove the paper film from the patch , and place the patch on the affected area , so that the direction of stretch is consistent with joint action .
• adults and children 8 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Do not use this product for longer than 8 hours in one day .
• children under 8 years of age : do not use , consult your physician .
Other information • keep tightly sealed • store at 8º to 30º C ( 46º to 86º F ) , away from sunlight Inactive ingredients dong - quai root , erycibe ( Erycibe obtusifolia Benth . )
stem , fragrant angelica root , frankincense oleo - gum - resin , ginger rhizome , futokadsura [ Kadsura heteroclita ( Roxb . )
Craib ] stem , lanolin , paraffin , petrolatum , rosin , san - qi ginseng root , stephania ( Stephania sinica Diels . )
root , and zinc oxide , on a rubberized fabric backing covered with protective paper .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm • you may also report serious side effects to this phone number TIANHE GUTONG TIEGAO PAIN RELIEVING PATCH NDC 68007 - 201 - 01 10 PATCHES EACH PATCH 2 . 75 IN X 4 IN ( 7 CM X 10 CM ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
