Injection Ampul Fliptop Vial Protect from light .
Rx only BOXED WARNING WARNING : LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION AND RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection , particularly when used concomitantly with other opioids or central nervous system depressants .
Monitor for respiratory depression , especially during initiation of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection or following a dose increase [ see WARNINGS ] .
Risks from Concomitant Use With Benzodiazepines Or Other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants , including alcohol , may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death [ see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS ; DRUG INTERACTIONS ] .
• Reserve concomitant prescribing of nalbuphine hydrochloride and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
• Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
• Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
DESCRIPTION Nalbuphine hydrochloride is a synthetic opioid agonist - antagonist analgesic of the phenanthrene series .
It is chemically related to both the widely used opioid antagonist , naloxone , and the potent opioid analgesic , oxymorphone .
Chemically nalbuphine hydrochloride is 17 - ( cyclobutylmethyl ) - 4 , 5 a - epoxymorphinan - 3 , 6 a , 14 - triol hydrochloride .
Nalbuphine hydrochloride molecular weight is 393 . 91 and is soluble in H2O ( 35 . 5 mg / mL at 25ºC ) and ethanol ( 0 . 8 % ) ; insoluble in CHCl3 and ether .
Nalbuphine hydrochloride has pKa values of 8 . 71 and 9 . 96 .
The molecular formula is C21H27NO4 • HCl .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of nalbuphine hydrochloride in water for injection .
This product may be administered by subcutaneous , intramuscular or intravenous injection .
Each milliliter ( mL ) contains nalbuphine hydrochloride 10 mg or 20 mg ; sodium citrate , dihydrate 0 . 47 mg and citric acid , anhydrous 0 . 63 mg added as buffers and may contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment ; pH 3 . 7 ( 3 . 0 to 4 . 5 ) .
Contains sodium chloride for tonicity adjustment .
Multiple - dose vials contain 1 . 8 mg / mL methylparaben and 0 . 2 mg / mL propylparaben added as preservatives .
Single - dose products contain no bacteriostat or antimicrobial agent and unused portions must be discarded .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Nalbuphine is an agonist at kappa opioid receptors and an antagonist at mµ opioid receptors .
Pharmacodynamics Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is a potent analgesic .
Its analgesic potency is essentially equivalent to that of morphine on a milligram basis up to a dosage of approximately 30 mg .
The opioid antagonist activity of nalbuphine hydrochloride is one - fourth as potent as nalorphine and 10 times that of pentazocine .
Nalbuphine hydrochloride may produce the same degree of respiratory depression as equianalgesic doses of morphine .
However , Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection exhibits a ceiling effect such that increases in dose greater than 30 mg do not produce further respiratory depression in the absence of other CNS active medications affecting respiration .
Nalbuphine hydrochloride by itself has potent opioid antagonist activity at doses equal to or lower than its analgesic dose .
When administered following or concurrent with mµ agonist opioid analgesics ( e . g . , morphine , oxymorphone , fentanyl ) , nalbuphine hydrochloride may partially reverse or block opioid - induced respiratory depression from the mµ agonist analgesic .
Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may precipitate withdrawal in patients dependent on opioid drugs .
Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection should be used with caution in patients who have been receiving mµ opioid analgesics on a regular basis .
Effects on the Central Nervous System Nalbuphine produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers .
The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and electrical stimulation .
However , there may be a ceiling effect for the respiratory depression caused by nalbuphine .
Although a mixed agonist / antagonist , the respiratory depressant effects of nalbuphine can be reversed by naloxone .
Nalbuphine causes miosis , even in total darkness .
Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic ( e . g . , pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origins may produce similar findings ) .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations .
Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Nalbuphine causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum .
Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased .
Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased , while tone may be increased to the point of spasm , resulting in constipation .
Other opioid - induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions , spasm of sphincter of Oddi , and transient elevations in serum amylase .
Effects on the Cardiovascular System During use of nalbuphine during anesthesia , a higher incidence of bradycardia has been reported in patients who did not receive atropine pre - operatively .
Opioids produce peripheral vasodilation , which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope .
Manifestations of histamine release and / or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus , flushing , red eyes , sweating , and / or orthostatic hypotension .
Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) , cortisol , and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) in humans [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] .
They also stimulate prolactin , growth hormone ( GH ) secretion , and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon .
Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis , leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido , impotence , erectile dysfunction , amenorrhea , or infertility .
The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical , physical , lifestyle , and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] .
Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Overall , the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive .
Concentration – Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients , especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent agonist opioids .
The minimum effective analgesic concentration of nalbuphine for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain , the development of a new pain syndrome , and / or the development of analgesic tolerance [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] .
Pharmacokinetics The onset of action of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection occurs within 2 to 3 minutes after intravenous administration , and in less than 15 minutes following subcutaneous or intramuscular injection .
The plasma half - life of nalbuphine is 5 hours , and in clinical studies the duration of analgesic activity has been reported to range from 3 to 6 hours .
The metabolic pathway for nalbuphine has not been defined , but is likely hepatic .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nalbuphine hydrochloride injection is indicated for the management of moderate to pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate .
Nalbuphine hydrochloride can also be used as a supplement to balanced anesthesia , for preoperative and postoperative analgesia , and for obstetrical analgesia during labor and delivery .
Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse , with opioids , even at recommended doses ( see WARNINGS ) , reserve nalbuphine hydrochloride for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options ( e . g . , non - opioid analgesics or opioid combination products ) .
• Have not been tolerated , or are not expected to be tolerated • Have not provided adequate analgesia , or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia CONTRAINDICATIONS Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in contraindicated in patients with : • Significant respiratory depression [ see WARNINGS ] ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [ see WARNINGS ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction , including paralytic ileus [ see WARNINGS ] • Hypersensitivity to nalbuphine or to any of the other ingredients in Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection WARNINGS Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids , even when used as recommended .
Respiratory depression , if not immediately recognized and treated , may lead to respiratory arrest and death .
Management of respiratory depression may include close observation , supportive measures , and use of opioid antagonists , depending on the patient ' s clinical status [ see OVERDOSAGE ] .
Carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) retention from opioid - induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids .
While serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection , the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase .
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression , especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
To reduce the risk of respiratory depression , proper dosing and titration of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is essential [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] .
Overestimating the Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose .
Opioids can cause sleep - related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea ( CSA ) and sleep - related hypoxemia .
Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose - dependent fashion .
In patients who present with CSA , consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] .
Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death may result from the concomitant use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants ( e . g . , non - benzodiazepine sedatives / hypnotics , anxiolytics , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , antipsychotics , other opioids , alcohol ) .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone .
Because of similar pharmacological properties , it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [ see PRECAUTIONS ; DRUG INTERACTIONS ] .
If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use .
In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic , prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid , and titrate based on clinical response .
If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant , prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic , and titrate based on clinical response .
Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol and illicit drugs ) .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined .
Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders , including opioid abuse and misuse , and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [ see PRECAUTIONS ; DRUG INTERACTIONS and INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ] .
Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly , Cachectic , or Debilitated Patients The use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated .
Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection - treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or pre - existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea , even at recommended dosages of use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection [ see WARNINGS ] .
Elderly , Cachectic , or Debilitated Patients Life - threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly , cachectic , or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger , healthier patients [ see WARNINGS ] .
Monitor such patients closely , particularly when initiating and titrating Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection and when Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [ see WARNINGS ] .
Alternatively , consider the use of non - opioid analgesics in these patients .
Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use , more often following greater than 1 month of use .
Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non - specific symptoms and signs including nausea , vomiting , anorexia , fatigue , weakness , dizziness , and low blood pressure .
If adrenal insufficiency is suspected , confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible .
If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed , treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids .
Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers .
Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency .
The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency .
Severe Hypotension Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients .
There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines or general anesthetics ) [ see PRECAUTIONS ; DRUG INTERACTIONS ] .
Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
In patients with circulatory shock , Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure .
Avoid the use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in patients with circulatory shock .
Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure , Brain Tumors , Head Injury , or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention ( e . g . , those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors ) , Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may reduce respiratory drive , and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure .
Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression , particularly when initiating therapy with Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury .
Avoid the use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in patients with impaired consciousness or coma .
Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction , including paralytic ileus .
The nalbuphine in Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi .
Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase .
Monitor patients with biliary tract disease , including acute pancreatitis , for worsening symptoms .
Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The nalbuphine in Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders , and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures .
Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection therapy .
Withdrawal The use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection , a mixed agonist / antagonist opioid analgesic , in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic may reduce the analgesic effect and / or precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
Avoid concomitant use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection with a full opioid agonist analgesic .
When discontinuing Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection , in a physically - dependent patient , gradually taper the dosage [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] .
Do not abruptly discontinue Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in these patients [ see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] .
Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection and know how they will react to the medication [ see PRECAUTIONS ; INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ] .
Maintain patient under observation until recovered from Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection effects that would affect driving or other potentially dangerous tasks .
Use in Pregnancy ( Other Than Labor ) Severe fetal bradycardia has been reported when Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is administered during labor .
Naloxone may reverse these effects .
Although there are no reports of fetal bradycardia earlier in pregnancy , it is possible that this may occur .
Avoid the use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in pregnant women unless the potential benefit outweighs the risk to the fetus , and if appropriate measures such as fetal monitoring are taken to detect and manage any potential adverse effect on the fetus .
Use During Labor and Delivery The placental transfer of nalbuphine is high , rapid , and variable with a maternal to fetal ratio ranging from 1 : 0 . 37 to 1 : 6 .
Fetal and neonatal adverse effects that have been reported following the administration of nalbuphine to the mother during labor include fetal bradycardia , respiratory depression at birth , apnea , cyanosis , and hypotonia .
Some of these events have been life - threatening .
Maternal administration of naloxone during labor has normalized these effects in some cases .
Severe and prolonged fetal bradycardia has been reported .
Permanent neurological damage attributed to fetal bradycardia has occurred .
A sinusoidal fetal heart rate pattern associated with the use of nalbuphine has also been reported .
Nalbuphine should be used during labor and delivery only if clearly indicated and only if the potential benefit outweighs the risk to the infant .
Newborns should be monitored for respiratory depression , apnea , bradycardia and arrhythmias if nalbuphine has been used .
Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse Nalbuphine hydrochloride is a synthetic opioid agonist - antagonist analgesic .
As an opioid , Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection exposes users to the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] .
Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown , it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused .
Assess each patient ' s risk for opioid addiction , abuse , or misuse .
Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse ( including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction ) or mental illness ( e . g . , major depression ) .
The potential for these risks should not , however , prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient .
Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity .
Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired Renal or Hepatic Function Because nalbuphine is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidneys , Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection should be used with caution in patients with renal or liver dysfunction and administered in reduced amounts .
Myocardial Infarction As with all potent analgesics , Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection should be used with caution in patients with myocardial infarction who have nausea or vomiting .
Cardiovascular System During evaluation of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in anesthesia , a higher incidence of bradycardia has been reported in patients who did not receive atropine pre - operatively .
Laboratory Tests Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may interfere with enzymatic methods for the detection of opioids depending on the specificity / sensitivity of the test .
Consult the test manufacturer for specific details .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised of the following information : Serotonin Syndrome Inform patients that opioids could cause a rare but potentially life - threatening condition resulting from concomitant administration of serotonergic drugs .
Warn patients of the symptoms of serotonin syndrome and to seek medical attention right away if symptoms develop .
Instruct patients to inform their physicians if they are taking , or plan to take serotonergic medications [ see PRECAUTIONS ; DRUG INTERACTIONS ] .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) Interaction Inform patients to avoid taking Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection while using any drugs that inhibit monoamine oxidase .
Patients should not start MAOIs while taking Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] .
Constipation Advise patients of the potential for severe constipation , including management instructions and when to seek medical attention [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] .
Drug Interactions Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants Although Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection possesses opioid antagonist activity , there is evidence that in nondependent patients it will not antagonize an opioid analgesic administered just before , concurrently , or just after an injection of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
Therefore , due to additive pharmacologic effects , the concomitant use of other opioid analgesics , benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants such as alcohol , other sedatives / hypnotics , anxiolytics , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , antipsychotics , and other opioids , can increase the risk of respiratory depression , profound sedation , coma , and death .
Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [ see WARNINGS ] .
Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system , such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , triptans , 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system ( e . g . , mirtazapine , trazodone , tramadol ) , certain muscle relaxants ( i . e . , cyclobenzaprine , metaxalone ) , and monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ( those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others , such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue ) , has resulted in serotonin syndrome [ see PRECAUTIONS ; INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ] .
If concomitant use is warranted , carefully observe the patient , particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment .
Discontinue Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
Muscle Relaxants Nalbuphine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection and / or the muscle relaxant as necessary .
Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone .
Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and / or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed .
Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and / or severe constipation , which may lead to paralytic ileus .
Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) MAOI ( e . g . , phenelzine , tranylcypromine , linezolid ) interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ] or opioid toxicity ( e . g . , respiratory depression , coma [ see WARNINGS ] ) .
The use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment .
If urgent use of an opioid is necessary , use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in long term animal studies were performed in rats ( 24 months ) and mice ( 19 months ) by oral administration at doses up to 200 mg / kg [ 12 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHD ) ] and 200 mg / per day ( 6 times the MRDH ) , respectively .
Mutagenesis Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection induced an increased frequency of mutation in the mouse lymphoma assay .
Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection did not have mutagenic activity in the Ames test with four bacterial strains , in the Chinese Hamster Ovary HGPRT assays or in the Sister Chromatid Exchange Assay .
Clastogenic activity was not observed in the mouse micronucleus test or the cytogenicity bone marrow assay in rats .
Impairment of Fertility Female rats were treated with nalbuphine hydrochloride beginning 15 days prior to mating through Lactation Day 20 via subcutaneous doses of 14 , 28 , or 56 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 85 , 1 . 7 , or 3 . 4 times the MRHD of 160 mg / day based on body surface area , respectively ) .
Male rats were treated via oral gavage with the same nalbuphine hydrochloride doses beginning 60 days prior to and throughout mating .
There were no adverse effects on either male or female fertility .
Pregnancy Risk Summary Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy may cause neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome .
Available data with Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , nalbuphine decreased pup survival and pup body weights when pregnant female rats were treated late in gestation and throughout lactation at 1 . 7 times the MRHD and when female and male rats treated either prior to mating and throughout gestation and lactation .
No malformations were observed in either rats or rabbits at doses 6 . 1 and 3 . 9 times the MRHD , respectively [ see DATA ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Severe fetal bradycardia has been reported when nalbuphine hydrochloride is administered during labor .
Naloxone may reverse these effects .
Although there are no reports of fetal bradycardia earlier in pregnancy , it is possible that this may occur .
This drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed , if the potential benefit outweighs the risk to the fetus , and if appropriate measures such as fetal monitoring are taken to detect and manage any potential adverse effect on the fetus .
Labor and Delivery The placental transfer of nalbuphine is high , rapid , and variable with a maternal to fetal ratio ranging from 1 : 0 . 37 to 1 : 6 .
Fetal and neonatal adverse effects that have been reported following the administration of nalbuphine to the mother during labor include fetal bradycardia , respiratory depression at birth , apnea , cyanosis , and hypotonia .
Some of these events have been life - threatening .
Maternal administration of naloxone during labor has normalized these effects in some cases .
Severe and prolonged fetal bradycardia has been reported .
Permanent neurological damage attributed to fetal bradycardia has occurred .
A sinusoidal fetal heart rate pattern associated with the use of nalbuphine has also been reported .
Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection should be used during labor and delivery only if clearly indicated and only if the potential benefit outweighs the risk to the infant .
Newborns should be monitored for respiratory depression , apnea , bradycardia and arrhythmias if Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection has been used .
Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho - physiologic effects in neonates .
An opioid antagonist , such as naloxone , must be available for reversal of opioid - induced respiratory depression in the neonate .
Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is not recommended for use in pregnant women during or immediately prior to labor , when other analgesic techniques are more appropriate .
Opioid analgesics , including Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection , can prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength , duration , and frequency of uterine contractions .
However , this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilation , which tends to shorten labor .
Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression .
Data Animal Data Pregnant rats were treated with nalbuphine hydrochloride from Gestation Day 6 to 15 via subcutaneous doses of 7 , 14 , or 100 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 4 , 0 . 85 , or 6 . 1 times the MRHD of 160 mg / day based on body surface area , respectively ) .
There was no evidence of malformations or embryotoxicity despite reductions in maternal weight gain in the mid - and high - dose groups .
Pregnant rabbits were treated with nalbuphine hydrochloride from Gestation Day 7 to 19 via intravenous doses of 4 , 8 , or 32 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 , 1 , or 3 . 9 times the MRHD based on body surface area , respectively ) .
There was no evidence of malformations or embryotoxicity despite reductions in maternal weight gain in the high - dose group .
Pregnant rats were treated with nalbuphine hydrochloride from Gestation Day 15 to Lactation Day 20 via subcutaneous doses of 14 , 28 , or 56 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 85 , 1 . 7 , or 3 . 4 times the MRHD based on body surface area , respectively ) .
Pup survival was decreased in the mid - and high - dose groups and neonatal body weights were dose dependently reduced .
Maternal toxicity was noted in all treatment groups ( reduced body weights ) .
Female rats were treated with nalbuphine hydrochloride beginning 15 days prior to mating through Lactation Day 20 via subcutaneous doses of 14 , 28 , or 56 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 85 , 1 . 7 , or 3 . 4 times the MRHD of 160 mg / day based on body surface area , respectively ) .
Male rats were treated via oral gavage with the same oxymorphone hydrochloride doses beginning 60 days prior to and throughout mating .
There was reduced pup survival in the high dose group animals and reduced pup body weights in the mid - and high - dose groups .
Lactation Limited data suggest that Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection is excreted in maternal milk but only in a small amount ( less than 1 % of the administered dose ) and with a clinically insignificant effect .
Infants exposed to Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection through breast milk should be monitored for excess sedation and respiratory depression .
Withdrawal symptoms can occur in breastfed infants when maternal administration of an opioid analgesic is stopped , or when breast - feeding is stopped .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 18 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use Elderly patients ( aged 65 years or older ) may have increased sensitivity to Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection .
In general , use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids , and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioid - tolerant or when opioids were co - administered with other agents that depress respiration .
Titrate the dosage of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection slowly in geriatric patients [ see WARNINGS ] .
Nalbuphine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reaction in 1066 patients treated in clinical studies with Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection was sedation 381 ( 36 % ) .
Less frequent reactions were : sweaty / clammy 99 ( 9 % ) , nausea / vomiting 68 ( 6 % ) , dizziness / vertigo 58 ( 5 % ) , dry mouth 44 ( 4 % ) , and headache 27 ( 3 % ) .
Other adverse reactions which occurred ( reported incidence of 1 % or less ) were : CNS Effects : Nervousness , depression , restlessness , crying , euphoria , floating , hostility , unusual dreams , confusion , faintness , hallucinations , dysphoria , feeling of heaviness , numbness , tingling , unreality .
The incidence of psychotomimetic effects , such as unreality , depersonalization , delusions , dysphoria and hallucinations has been shown to be less than that which occurs with pentazocine .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension , hypotension , bradycardia , tachycardia .
Gastrointestinal : Cramps , dyspepsia , bitter taste .
Respiratory : Depression , dyspnea , asthma .
Dermatologic : Itching , burning , urticaria .
Miscellaneous : Speech difficulty , urinary urgency , blurred vision , flushing and warmth .
Allergic Reactions : Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid and other serious hypersensitivity reactions have been reported following the use of nalbuphine and may require immediate , supportive medical treatment .
These reactions may include shock , respiratory distress , respiratory arrest , bradycardia , cardiac arrest , hypotension , or laryngeal edema .
Some of these allergic reactions may be life - threatening .
Other allergic - type reactions reported include stridor , bronchospasm , wheezing , edema , rash , pruritus , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , weakness , and shakiness .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of nalbuphine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Abdominal pain , pyrexia , depressed level or loss of consciousness , somnolence , tremor , anxiety , pulmonary edema , agitation , seizures , and injection site reactions such as pain , swelling , redness , burning , and hot sensations .
Death has been reported from severe allergic reactions to Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection treatment .
Fetal death has been reported where mothers received Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection during labor and delivery .
Serotonin syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition , have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs .
Adrenal insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use , more often following greater than one month of use .
OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdose with nalbuphine hydrochloride can be manifested by respiratory depression , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , and , in some cases , pulmonary edema , bradycardia , hypotension , partial or complete airway obstruction , atypical snoring , and death .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations .
Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose , priorities are the reestablishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation , if needed .
Employ other supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life - support techniques .
The opioid antagonists , naloxone or nalmefene , are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose .
For clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to nalbuphine hydrochloride overdose , administer an opioid antagonist .
Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to nalbuphine hydrochloride overdose .
Because the duration of opioid reversal is expected to be less than the duration of action of nalbuphine hydrochloride in nalbuphine hydrochloride , carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably re - established .
If the response to an opioid antagonist is suboptimal or only brief in nature , administer additional antagonist as directed by the product ’ s prescribing information .
In an individual physically dependent on opioids , administration of the recommended usual dosage of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered .
If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , administration of the antagonist should be begun with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection should be administered as a supplement to general anesthesia only by persons specifically trained in the use of intravenous anesthetics and management of the respiratory effects of potent opioids .
Naloxone , resuscitative and intubation equipment and oxygen should be readily available .
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient ' s severity of pain , patient response , prior analgesic treatment experience , and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse [ see WARNINGS ] .
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression , especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection and adjust the dosage accordingly [ see WARNINGS ] .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Initial Dosage The usual recommended adult dose is 10 mg for a 70 kg individual administered subcutaneously , intramuscularly , or intravenously ; this dose may be repeated every 3 to 6 hours as necessary .
Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain , physical status of the patient , and other medications which the patient may be receiving [ see WARNINGS ; RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS ] .
In nontolerant individuals , the recommended single maximum dose is 20 mg with a maximum total daily dose of 160 mg .
The use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection as a supplement to balanced anesthesia requires larger doses than those recommended for analgesia .
Induction doses of nalbuphine hydrochloride range from 0 . 3 mg / kg to 3 mg / kg intravenously to be administered over a 10 to 15 minute period with maintenance doses of 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg / kg in single intravenous administrations as required .
The use of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection may be followed by respiratory depression which can be reversed with the opioid antagonist naloxone hydrochloride .
Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions .
Continually reevaluate patients receiving nalbuphine hydrochloride to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse [ see WARNINGS ] .
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration .
If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization , attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the nalbuphine hydrochloride dosage .
If unacceptable opioid - related adverse reactions are observed , consider reducing the dosage .
Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid - related adverse events .
Discontinuation of Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection When a patient who has been taking Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection regularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection , taper the dose gradually , by 25 % to 50 % every 2 to 4 days , while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal .
If the patient develops these signs or symptoms , raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly , either by increasing the interval between decreases , decreasing the amount of change in dose , or both .
Do not abruptly discontinue Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection in a physically - dependent patient [ see WARNINGS , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] .
HOW SUPPLIED Nalbuphine Hydrochloride Injection for intramuscular , subcutaneous , or intravenous use is a sterile solution available in : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from excessive light .
Store in carton until contents have been used .
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 1463 - 01 Tray of 10 1 mL Single - dose Ampul NDC 0404 - 9918 - 01 1 1 mL Single - dose Ampul in a bag ( Ampul bears NDC 0409 - 1463 - 71 ) 10 mg / mL Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 0839 - 6 . 0 Revised : 02 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
