Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - Itch Uses For temporarily rellief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • external feminine , genital and anal itching Other use of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Warnings • for external use only Stop using this product and ask a doctor • Conditions worsen • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • for external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Do not use Do not Use • for the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor .
• for external genital ithcing if you hvae a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
Directions Adults and Children 2 years and older • Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • do not use , consult a doctor For external and anal itching • Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
Children under 12 years of age with external and anal itching : Consult a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , Cetyl alcohol , Dimethicone , EDTA , Ethylparaben , Ginger Oil , glycerin , Glycerol Stearate , Maltodextrin , Methyl gluceth - 20 , Methylparaben , Methylpentadecane , petrolatum , 2 - Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , purified water , Stearic Acid , Trisodium citrate dihydrate , Vitamin E .
Other Information • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Other Information Distributed By : Trifecta Pharmaceuticals USA ™ 101 NE Third Avenue , Suite 1500 Ft . Lauderdale , FL .
33301 USA Made in China www . trifecta - pharma . com 1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . distributor of Cortizone - 10 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
