To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride capsules and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
WARNING Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin hydrochloride and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon , leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
Because clindamycin hydrochloride therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
DESCRIPTION Clindamycin hydrochloride is the hydrated hydrochloride salt of clindamycin .
Clindamycin is a semisynthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent compound lincomycin .
Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP contain clindamycin hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 150 mg or 300 mg of clindamycin .
Inactive ingredients : 150 mg - black iron oxide , corn starch , D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue no . 1 , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac , talc , and titanium dioxide ; 300 mg - black iron oxide , corn starch , FD & C Blue no . 1 , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac , talc , and titanium dioxide .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • C 18 H 33 ClN 2 O 5 S • HCl M . W . 461 . 45 The chemical name for clindamycin hydrochloride is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside monohydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Human Pharmacology Absorption Pharmacokinetic studies with a 150 mg oral dose of clindamycin hydrochloride in 24 normal adult volunteers showed that clindamycin was rapidly absorbed after oral administration .
An average peak serum concentration of 2 . 50 mcg / mL was reached in 45 minutes ; serum concentrations averaged 1 . 51 mcg / mL at 3 hours and 0 . 70 mcg / mL at 6 hours .
Absorption of an oral dose is virtually complete ( 90 % ) , and the concomitant administration of food does not appreciably modify the serum concentrations ; serum concentrations have been uniform and predictable from person to person and dose to dose .
Pharmacokinetic studies following multiple doses of clindamycin hydrochloride for up to 14 days show no evidence of accumulation or altered metabolism of drug .
Doses of up to 2 grams of clindamycin per day for 14 days have been well tolerated by healthy volunteers , except that the incidence of gastrointestinal side effects is greater with the higher doses .
Distribution Concentrations of clindamycin in the serum increased linearly with increased dose .
Serum concentrations exceed the MIC ( minimum inhibitory concentration ) for most indicated organisms for at least six hours following administration of the usually recommended doses .
Clindamycin is widely distributed in body fluids and tissues ( including bones ) .
No significant concentrations of clindamycin are attained in the cerebrospinal fluid , even in the presence of inflamed meninges .
Metabolism In vitro studies in human liver and intestinal microsomes indicated that clindamycin is predominantly metabolized by Cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , with minor contribution from CYP3A5 , to form clindamycin sulfoxide and a minor metabolite , N - desmethylclindamycin .
Excretion The average biological half - life is 2 . 4 hours .
Approximately 10 % of the bioactivity is excreted in the urine and 3 . 6 % in the feces ; the remainder is excreted as bioinactive metabolites .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal / Hepatic Impairment The elimination half - life of clindamycin is increased slightly in patients with markedly reduced renal or hepatic function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
Dosage schedules do not need to be modified in patients with renal disease .
Geriatric Patients Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly volunteers ( 61 to 79 years ) and younger adults ( 18 to 39 years ) indicate that age alone does not alter clindamycin pharmacokinetics ( clearance , elimination half - life , volume of distribution , and area under the serum concentration - time curve ) after IV administration of clindamycin phosphate .
After oral administration of clindamycin hydrochloride , the average elimination half - life is increased to approximately 4 hours ( range 3 . 4 to 5 . 1 h ) in the elderly compared to 3 . 2 hours ( range 2 . 1 to 4 . 2 h ) in younger adults .
The extent of absorption , however , is not different between age groups and no dosage alteration is necessary for the elderly with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function 1 .
Obese Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to Less than 18 Years and Obese Adults Aged 18 to 20 Years An analysis of pharmacokinetic data in obese pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years and obese adults aged 18 to 20 years demonstrated that clindamycin clearance and volume of distribution , normalized by total body weight , are comparable regardless of obesity .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
Clindamycin is bacteriostatic .
Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is most often caused by modification of specific bases of the 23 S ribosomal RNA .
Cross - resistance between clindamycin and lincomycin is complete .
Because the binding sites for these antibacterial drugs overlap , cross - resistance is sometimes observed among lincosamides , macrolides and streptogramin B . Macrolide - inducible resistance to clindamycin occurs in some isolates of macrolide - resistant bacteria .
Macrolide - resistant isolates of staphylococci and beta - hemolytic streptococci should be screened for induction of clindamycin resistance using the D - zone test .
Antimicrobial Activity Clindamycin has been shown to be active against most of the isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible strains ) • Streptococcus pneumoniae ( penicillin - susceptible strains ) • Streptococcus pyogenes • Anaerobic bacteria • Clostridium perfringens • Fusobacterium necrophorum • Fusobacterium nucleatum • Peptostreptococcus anaerobius • Prevotella melaninogenica The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for clindamycin against isolates of a similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of clindamycin in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus epidermidis ( methicillin - susceptible strains ) • Streptococcus agalactiae • Streptococcus anginosus • Streptococcus mitis • Streptococcus oralis • Anaerobic bacteria • Actinomyces israelii • Clostridium clostridioforme • Eggerthella lenta • Finegoldia ( Peptostreptococcus ) magna • Micromonas ( Peptostreptococcus ) micros • Prevotella bivia • Prevotella intermedia • Cutibacterium acnes Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci , and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of colitis , as described in the BOXED WARNING , before selecting clindamycin , the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives ( e . g . , erythromycin ) .
Anaerobes : Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema , anaerobic pneumonitis , and lung abscess ; serious skin and soft tissue infections ; septicemia ; intra - abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess ( typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastrointestinal tract ) ; infections of the female pelvis and genital tract such as endometritis , nongonococcal tubo - ovarian abscess , pelvic cellulitis , and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection .
Streptococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Staphylococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Pneumococci : Serious respiratory tract infections .
Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin .
WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin hydrochloride , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon , leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Anaphylactic and Severe Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic shock and anaphylactic reactions have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including severe skin reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , some with fatal outcome , have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In case of such an anaphylactic or severe hypersensitivity reaction , discontinue treatment permanently and institute appropriate therapy .
A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens .
Nephrotoxicity Clindamycin is potentially nephrotoxic and cases with acute kidney injury have been reported .
Consider monitoring of renal function particularly in patients with pre - existing renal dysfunction or those taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs .
In case of acute kidney injury , discontinue clindamycin hydrochloride when no other etiology is identified .
Usage in Meningitis - Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid , the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Review of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When clindamycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
Clindamycin hydrochloride should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Clindamycin hydrochloride should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
The use of clindamycin hydrochloride occasionally results in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms — particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
Clindamycin dosage modification is not necessary in patients with renal disease .
In patients with moderate to severe liver disease , prolongation of clindamycin half - life has been found .
However , it was postulated from studies that when given every eight hours , accumulation should rarely occur .
Therefore , dosage modification in patients with liver disease may not be necessary .
However , periodic liver enzyme determinations should be made when treating patients with severe liver disease .
Prescribing clindamycin hydrochloride capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by clindamycin hydrochloride capsules or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Clindamycin is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4 , and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5 , to the major metabolite clindamycin sulfoxide and minor metabolite N - desmethylclindamycin .
Therefore , inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 may increase plasma concentrations of clindamycin and inducers of these isoenzymes may reduce plasma concentrations of clindamycin .
In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors , monitor for adverse reactions .
In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampicin , monitor for loss of effectiveness .
In vitro studies indicate that clindamycin does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2E1 or CYP2D6 and only moderately inhibits CYP3A4 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters , has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
Clindamycin should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 and 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 3 and 0 . 7 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
Nursing Mothers Limited published data based on breast milk sampling reports that clindamycin appears in human breast milk in the range of less than 0 . 5 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breast - fed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
If oral or intravenous clindamycin is required by a nursing mother , it is not a reason to discontinue breastfeeding , but an alternate drug may be preferred .
Monitor the breast - fed infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use When clindamycin hydrochloride is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) , appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clindamycin did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridioides difficile ) seen in association with most antibiotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more severe .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young and elderly subjects with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Infections and Infestations : Clostridioides difficile colitis Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , pseudomembranous colitis , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea ( see BOXED WARNING ) .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Esophageal ulcer has been reported .
An unpleasant or metallic taste has been reported after oral administration .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like ( maculopapular ) skin rashes are the most frequently reported adverse reactions .
Vesiculobullous rashes , as well as urticaria , have been observed during drug therapy .
Severe skin reactions such as Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis , some with fatal outcome , have been reported ( See WARNINGS ) .
Cases of Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) , erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , anaphylactic shock , anaphylactic reaction and hypersensitivity have also been reported .
Skin and Mucous Membranes : Pruritus , vaginitis , angioedema and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported .
( See Hypersensitivity Reactions . )
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal : Acute kidney injury ( See WARNINGS ) .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Immune System : Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) cases have been reported .
Musculoskeletal : Cases of polyarthritis have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Significant mortality was observed in mice at an intravenous dose of 855 mg / kg and in rats at an oral or subcutaneous dose of approximately 2618 mg / kg .
In the mice , convulsions and depression were observed .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued ( see BOXED WARNING ) .
Adults : Serious infections — 150 to 300 mg every 6 hours .
More severe infections - 300 to 450 mg every 6 hours .
Pediatric Patients ( for children who are able to swallow capsules ) : Serious infections - 8 to 16 mg / kg / day ( 4 to 8 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
More severe infections - 16 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 to 10 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
Clindamycin should be dosed based on total body weight regardless of obesity .
To avoid the possibility of esophageal irritation , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules should be taken with a full glass of water .
Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are not suitable for children who are unable to swallow them whole .
The capsules do not provide exact mg / kg doses therefore it may be necessary to use the clindamycin palmitate oral solution in some cases .
Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usually treated with clindamycin injection .
However , in clinically appropriate circumstances , the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin hydrochloride capsules .
In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treatment should continue for at least 10 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are available in the following strengths , colors and sizes : Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP , 300 mg are size ‘ 0 ’ capsules with turquoise blue opaque cap and turquoise blue opaque body imprinted with “ RX693 ” on cap and body in black ink containing white to off white powder .
They are supplied as follows : • NDC 72789 - 207 - 09 Bottles of 9 • NDC 72789 - 207 - 20 Bottles of 20 • NDC 72789 - 207 - 21 Bottles of 21 • NDC 72789 - 207 - 30 Bottles of 30 • NDC 72789 - 207 - 40 Bottles of 40 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
REFERENCES • Smith RB , Phillips JP : Evaluation of CLEOCIN HCl and CLEOCIN Phosphate in an Aged Population .
Upjohn TR 8147 - 82 - 9122 - 021 , December 1982 .
• Manufactured by : • Ohm Laboratories Inc .
• New Brunswick , NJ 08901 • Distributed by : • Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
• Cranbury , NJ 08512 • June 2022 FDA - 14 Package / Label Display Panel For 300 mg Strength CLINDAMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE CAPSULES , USP 300 mg * Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
