Active ingredient Salicylic Acid , 3 % Purpose Psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis treatment Uses Relieves and helps prevent recurrence of scalp • • itching • • irritation • • redness • • flaking • • scaling Due to psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire , flame or heat When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use as directed Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply to affected areas one to four times daily or as directed by a doctor • • If using after shampooing , towel dry hair • • Apply from bottle directly to scalp and massage in .
To avoid running or dripping , do not squeeze the bottle too hard .
Other Information Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from humidity .
Inactive Ingredients water , alcohol denat . , propylene glycol , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , menthol , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , disodium EDTA Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2014 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in Israel V - XXXXX 0H818 17 C1 CVS ® Quality Money Back Guarantee Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label CVS pharmacy ™ scalp relief Controls dandruff Relieves and helps prevent scalp itching , irritation , redness and flaking Infused with aloe and vitamin E 3 % Salicylic acid Psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis treatment Compare to the active ingredient in Scalpicin ® 2 in 1 Anti - Dandruff Liquid * 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 74 mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benc LLC , owner of the registered trademark Scalpicin ® .
CVS / pharmacy ™ Scalp Relief stops the intense scalp itch associated with psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis .
Its fragrance free and non - greasy formula can be used every day to protect the scalp from irritation caused by dandruff .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
