Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 12 / 2007 Warnings and Precautions Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions ( 5 . 2 ) 03 / 2007 Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes ( 5 . 3 ) 03 / 2007 Special populations ( 5 . 6 ) 04 / 2007 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and / or sleep maintenance ( as measured by wake time after sleep onset ) .
The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 3 weeks ( using polysomnography measurement up to 2 weeks in both adult and elderly patients ) and 24 weeks ( using patient - reported assessment in adult patients only ) in duration [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and / or sleep maintenance .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should be individualized .
• Adult dose : 12 . 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime ( 2 . 1 ) • Elderly / debilitated / hepatically impaired patients : 6 . 25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime ( 2 . 2 ) Tablets to be swallowed whole , not to be crushed , divided or chewed .
Should not be taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Dosage in adults The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets for adults is 12 . 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime .
The total zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets dose should not exceed 12 . 5 mg per day .
2 . 2 Special populations Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate .
Patients with hepatic insufficiency do not clear the drug as rapidly as normals .
The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in both of these patient populations is 6 . 25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 3 Use with CNS depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are combined with other CNS depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 4 Administration Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole , and not be divided , crushed , or chewed .
The effect of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are available as extended - release tablets containing 6 . 25 mg of zolpidem tartrate for oral administration .
Tablets are not scored .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , 6 . 25 mg , are coated , white , round , bi - convex and debossed with A2 on one side .
6 . 25 mg extended - release tablets .
Tablets not scored ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem tartrate or to any of the inactive ingredients in the formulation .
Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem tartrate or to any of the inactive ingredients in the formulation ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Need to evaluate for co - morbid diagnoses : Revaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use ( 5 . 1 ) • Severe anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions : Angioedema and anaphylaxis have been reported .
Do not rechallenge if such reactions occur ( 5 . 2 ) • Abnormal thinking , behavioral changes , complex behaviors : May include “ sleep - driving ” and hallucinations .
Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes ( 5 . 3 ) • Depression : Worsening of depression or , suicidal thinking may occur .
Prescribe the least amount feasible to avoid intentional overdose ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) • Withdrawal effects : Symptoms may occur with rapid dose reduction or discontinuation ( 5 . 4 , 9 . 2 ) • CNS depressant effects : Use can impair alertness and motor coordination .
If used in combination with other CNS depressants , dose reductions may be needed due to additive effects .
Do not use with alcohol ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 5 ) • Elderly / debilitated patients : Use lower dose due to impaired motor , cognitive performance and increased sensitivity ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 6 ) • Patients with hepatic impairment , mild to moderate COPD , impaired drug metabolism or hemodynamic responses , mild to moderate sleep apnea : Use with caution and monitor closely ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Need to evaluate for co - morbid diagnoses Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder .
Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative / hypnotic drugs , including zolpidem .
5 . 2 Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue , glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative - hypnotics , including zolpidem .
Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea , throat closing or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis .
Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department .
If angioedema involves the throat , glottis or larynx , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with zolpidem should not be rechallenged with the drug .
5 . 3 Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes A variety of abnormal thinking and behavior changes have been reported to occur in association with the use of sedative / hypnotics .
Some of these changes may be characterized by decreased inhibition ( e . g . aggressiveness and extroversion that seemed out of character ) , similar to effects produced by alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Visual and auditory hallucinations have been reported as well as behavioral changes such as bizarre behavior , agitation and depersonalization .
In controlled trials , < 1 % of adults with insomnia who received zolpidem reported hallucinations .
In a clinical trial , 7 . 4 % of pediatric patients with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , who received zolpidem reported hallucinations [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Complex behaviors such as “ sleep - driving ” ( i . e . , driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a sedative - hypnotic , with amnesia for the event ) have been reported with sedative - hypnotics , including zolpidem .
These events can occur in sedative - hypnotic - naïve as well as sedative - hypnotic - experienced persons .
Although behaviors such as “ sleep - driving ” may occur with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets alone at therapeutic doses , the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets appears to increase the risk of such behaviors , as does the use of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose .
Due to the risk to the patient and the community , discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should be strongly considered for patients who report a “ sleep - driving ” episode .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with “ sleep - driving ” , patients usually do not remember these events .
Amnesia , anxiety and other neuro - psychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably .
In primarily depressed patients , worsening of depression , including suicidal thoughts and actions ( including completed suicides ) , have been reported in association with the use of sedative / hypnotics .
It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced , spontaneous in origin , or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder .
Nonetheless , the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation .
5 . 4 Withdrawal effects Following the rapid dose decrease or abrupt discontinuation of sedative / hypnotics , there have been reports of signs and symptoms similar to those associated with withdrawal from other CNS - depressant drugs [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
5 . 5 CNS depressant effects Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , like other sedative / hypnotic drugs , has CNS - depressant effects .
Due to the rapid onset of action , zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should only be taken immediately prior to going to bed .
Patients should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness or motor coordination such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle after ingesting the drug , including potential impairment of the performance of such activities that may occur the day following ingestion of Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets showed additive effects when combined with alcohol and should not be taken with alcohol .
Patients should also be cautioned about possible combined effects with other CNS - depressant drugs .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are administered with such agents because of the potentially additive effects .
5 . 6 Special populations Use in the elderly and / or debilitated patients : Impaired motor and / or cognitive performance after repeated exposure or unusual sensitivity to sedative / hypnotic drugs is a concern in the treatment of elderly and / or debilitated patients .
Therefore , the recommended zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets dosage is 6 . 25 mg in such patients to decrease the possibility of side effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
These patients should be closely monitored .
Use in patients with concomitant illness : Clinical experience with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in patients with concomitant systemic illness is limited .
Caution is advisable in using zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in patients with diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses .
Although studies did not reveal respiratory depressant effects at hypnotic doses of zolpidem in normals or in patients with mild to moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , a reduction in the Total Arousal Index together with a reduction in lowest oxygen saturation and increase in the times of oxygen desaturation below 80 % and 90 % was observed in patients with mild - to - moderate sleep apnea when treated with an immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate ( 10 mg ) when compared to placebo .
Since sedative / hypnotics have the capacity to depress respiratory drive , precautions should be taken if zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are prescribed to patients with compromised respiratory function .
Post - marketing reports of respiratory insufficiency , most of which involved patients with pre - existing respiratory impairment , have been received .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with sleep apnea syndrome or myasthenia gravis .
Data in end - stage renal failure patients repeatedly treated with an immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate ( 10 mg ) did not demonstrate drug accumulation or alterations in pharmacokinetic parameters .
No dosage adjustment in renally impaired patients is required ; however , these patients should be closely monitored [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
A study in subjects with hepatic impairment did reveal prolonged elimination in this group ; therefore , treatment should be initiated with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg in patients with hepatic compromise , and they should be closely monitored [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use in patients with depression : As with other sedative / hypnotic drugs , zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients exhibiting signs or symptoms of depression .
Suicidal tendencies may be present in such patients and protective measures may be required .
Intentional overdosage is more common in this group of patients ; therefore , the least amount of drug that is feasible should be prescribed for the patient at any one time .
Use in pediatric patients : Safety and effectiveness of zolpidem has not been established in pediatric patients .
In an 8 - week study in pediatric patients ( age 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with ADHD given an immediate - release oral solution of zolpidem tartrate , zolpidem did not decrease sleep latency compared to placebo .
Hallucinations were reported in 7 . 4 % of the pediatric patients who received zolpidem ; none of the pediatric patients who received placebo reported hallucinations [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Serious anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Abnormal thinking , behavior changes , and complex behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Withdrawal effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • CNS - depressant effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most commonly observed adverse reactions ( > 10 % in either elderly or adult patients ) are : headache , next - day somnolence and dizziness ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical trials experience Associated with discontinuation of treatment : In 3 - week clinical trials in adults and elderly patients ( > 65 years ) , 3 . 5 % ( 7 / 201 ) patients receiving zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 or 12 . 5 mg discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction as compared to 0 . 9 % ( 2 / 216 ) of patients on placebo .
The reaction most commonly associated with discontinuation in patients treated with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets was somnolence ( 1 % ) .
In a 6 - month study in adult patients ( 18 - 64 years of age ) , 8 . 5 % ( 57 / 669 ) of patients receiving zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg as compared to 4 . 6 % on placebo ( 16 / 349 ) discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction .
Reactions most commonly associated with discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets included anxiety ( anxiety , restlessness or agitation ) reported in 1 . 5 % ( 10 / 669 ) of patients as compared to 0 . 3 % ( 1 / 349 ) of patients on placebo , and depression ( depression , major depression or depressed mood ) reported in 1 . 5 % ( 10 / 669 ) of patients as compared to 0 . 3 % ( 1 / 349 ) of patients on placebo .
Data from a clinical study in which selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor - ( SSRI - ) treated patients were given zolpidem revealed that four of the seven discontinuations during double - blind treatment with zolpidem ( n = 95 ) were associated with impaired concentration , continuing or aggravated depression , and manic reaction ; one patient treated with placebo ( n = 97 ) was discontinued after an attempted suicide .
Most commonly observed adverse reactions in controlled trials : During treatment with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in adults and elderly at daily doses of 12 . 5 mg and 6 . 25 mg , respectively , each for three weeks , the most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets were headache , next - day somnolence , and dizziness .
In the 6 - month trial evaluating zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg , the adverse reaction profile was consistent with that reported in short - term trials , except for a higher incidence of anxiety ( 6 . 3 % for zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets versus 2 . 6 % for placebo ) .
Adverse reactions observed at an incidence of ≥ 1 % in controlled trials : The following tables enumerate treatment - emergent adverse reaction frequencies that were observed at an incidence equal to 1 % or greater among patients with insomnia who received zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in placebo - controlled trials .
Events reported by investigators were classified utilizing the MedDRA dictionary for the purpose of establishing event frequencies .
The prescriber should be aware that these figures cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice , in which patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in these clinical trials .
Similarly , the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigators involving related drug products and uses , since each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions .
However , the cited figures provide the physician with a basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the incidence of side effects in the population studied .
The following tables were derived from results of two placebo - controlled efficacy trials involving zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
These trials involved patients with primary insomnia who were treated for 3 weeks with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets at doses of 12 . 5 mg ( Table 1 ) or 6 . 25 mg ( Table 2 ) , respectively .
The tables include only adverse reactions occurring at an incidence of at least 1 % for zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets patients and with an incidence greater than that seen in the placebo patients .
Table 1 .
Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions in a 3 - week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trial in Adults ( percentage of patients reporting ) Zolpidem Tartrate Body System / Adverse Extended - Release Reaction * Tablets 12 . 5 mg Placebo ( N = 102 ) ( N = 110 ) * Reactions reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets and at greater frequency than in the placebo group .
** Hallucinations included hallucinations NOS as well as visual and hypnogogic hallucinations .
*** Memory disorders include : memory impairment , amnesia , anterograde amnesia .
Infections and infestations Influenza 3 0 Gastroenteritis 1 0 Labyrinthitis 1 0 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Appetite disorder 1 0 Psychiatric disorders Hallucinations ** 4 0 Disorientation 3 2 Anxiety 2 0 Depression 2 0 Psychomotor retardation 2 0 Binge eating 1 0 Depersonalization 1 0 Disinhibition 1 0 Euphoric mood 1 0 Mood swings 1 0 Stress symptoms 1 0 Nervous system disorders Headache 19 16 Somnolence 15 2 Dizziness 12 5 Memory disorders *** 3 0 Balance disorder 2 0 Disturbance in attention 2 0 Hypoesthesia 2 1 Ataxia 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Eye disorders Visual disturbance 3 0 Eye redness 2 0 Vision blurred 2 1 Altered visual depth perception 1 0 Asthenopia 1 0 Ear and labyrinth disorders Vertigo 2 0 Tinnitus 1 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Throat irritation 1 0 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 7 4 Constipation 2 0 Abdominal discomfort 1 0 Abdominal tenderness 1 0 Frequent bowel movements 1 0 Gastroesophageal reflux disease 1 0 Vomiting 1 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 1 0 Skin wrinkling 1 0 Urticaria 1 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 4 3 Myalgia 4 0 Neck pain 1 0 Reproductive system and breast disorders Menorrhagia 1 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 3 2 Asthenia 1 0 Chest discomfort 1 0 Investigations Blood pressure increased 1 0 Body temperature increased 1 0 Injury , poisoning and procedural complications Contusion 1 0 Social circumstances Exposure to poisonous plant 1 0 Table 2 .
Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions in a 3 - Week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trial in Elderly ( percentage of patients reporting ) Zolpidem Tartrate Body System / Adverse Extended - Release Reaction * Tablets 6 . 25 mg Placebo ( N = 99 ) ( N = 106 ) * Reactions reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets and at greater frequency than in the placebo group .
** Memory disorders include : memory impairment , amnesia , anterograde amnesia .
Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 6 4 Lower respiratory tract infection 1 0 Otitis externa 1 0 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 0 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 3 2 Psychomotor retardation 2 0 Apathy 1 0 Depressed mood 1 0 Nervous system disorders Headache 14 11 Dizziness 8 3 Somnolence 6 5 Burning sensation 1 0 Dizziness postural 1 0 Memory disorders ** 1 0 Muscle contractions involuntary 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Tremor 1 0 Cardiac disorders Palpitations 2 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Dry throat 1 0 Gastrointestinal disorders Flatulence 1 0 Vomiting 1 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 1 0 Urticaria 1 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia 2 0 Muscle cramp 2 1 Neck pain 2 0 Renal and urinary disorders Dysuria 1 0 Reproductive system and breast disorders Vulvovaginal dryness 1 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Influenza like illness 1 0 Pyrexia 1 0 Injury , poisoning and procedural complications Neck injury 1 0 Dose relationship for adverse reactions : There is evidence from dose comparison trials suggesting a dose relationship for many of the adverse reactions associated with zolpidem use , particularly for certain CNS and gastrointestinal adverse events .
Other adverse reactions observed during the premarketing evaluation of Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets : Other treatment - emergent adverse reactions associated with participation in zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets studies ( those reported at frequencies of < 1 % ) were not different in nature or frequency to those seen in studies with immediate - release zolpidem tartrate , which are listed below .
Adverse Events Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of Immediate - Release Zolpidem Tartrate : Immediate - release zolpidem tartrate was administered to 3 , 660 subjects in clinical trials throughout the U . S . , Canada , and Europe .
Treatment - emergent adverse events associated with clinical trial participation were recorded by clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing .
To provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing treatment - emergent adverse events , similar types of untoward events were grouped into a smaller number of standardized event categories and classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms .
The frequencies presented , therefore , represent the proportions of the 3 , 660 individuals exposed to zolpidem , at all doses , who experienced an event of the type cited on at least one occasion while receiving zolpidem .
All reported treatment - emergent adverse events are included , except those already listed in the table above of adverse events in placebo - controlled studies , those coding terms that are so general as to be uninformative , and those events where a drug cause was remote .
It is important to emphasize that , although the events reported did occur during treatment with zolpidem tartrate tablets , they were not necessarily caused by it .
Adverse events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in greater than 1 / 100 subjects ; infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients ; rare events are those occurring in less than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Autonomic nervous system : Frequent : dry mouth .
Infrequent : increased sweating , pallor , postural hypotension , syncope .
Rare : abnormal accommodation , altered saliva , flushing , glaucoma , hypotension , impotence , increased saliva , tenesmus .
Body as a whole : Frequent : asthenia .
Infrequent : chest pain , edema , falling , fever , malaise , trauma .
Rare : allergic reaction , allergy aggravated , anaphylactic shock , face edema , hot flashes , increased ESR , pain , restless legs , rigors , tolerance increased , weight decrease .
Cardiovascular system : Infrequent : cerebrovascular disorder , hypertension , tachycardia .
Rare : angina pectoris , arrhythmia , arteritis , circulatory failure , extrasystoles , hypertension aggravated , myocardial infarction , phlebitis , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary edema , varicose veins , ventricular tachycardia .
Central and peripheral nervous system : Frequent : ataxia , confusion , drowsiness , drugged feeling , euphoria , insomnia , lethargy , lightheadedness , vertigo .
Infrequent : agitation , decreased cognition , detached , difficulty concentrating , dysarthria , emotional lability , hallucination , hypoesthesia , illusion , leg cramps , migraine , nervousness , paresthesia , sleeping ( after daytime dosing ) , speech disorder , stupor , tremor .
Rare : abnormal gait , abnormal thinking , aggressive reaction , apathy , appetite increased , decreased libido , delusion , dementia , depersonalization , dysphasia , feeling strange , hypokinesia , hypotonia , hysteria , intoxicated feeling , manic reaction , neuralgia , neuritis , neuropathy , neurosis , panic attacks , paresis , personality disorder , somnambulism , suicide attempts , tetany , yawning .
Gastrointestinal system : Frequent : diarrhea , dyspepsia , hiccup .
Infrequent : anorexia , constipation , dysphagia , flatulence , gastroenteritis .
Rare : enteritis , eructation , esophagospasm , gastritis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , rectal hemorrhage , tooth caries .
Hematologic and lymphatic system : Rare : anemia , hyperhemoglobinemia , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , macrocytic anemia , purpura , thrombosis .
Immunologic system : Infrequent : infection .
Rare : abscess herpes simplex herpes zoster , otitis externa , otitis media .
Liver and biliary system : Infrequent : abnormal hepatic function , increased SGPT .
Rare : bilirubinemia , increased SGOT .
Metabolic and nutritional : Infrequent : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Rare : gout , hypercholesteremia , hyperlipidemia , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased BUN , periorbital edema .
Musculoskeletal system : Infrequent : arthritis .
Rare : arthrosis , muscle weakness , sciatica , tendinitis .
Reproductive system : Infrequent : menstrual disorder , vaginitis .
Rare : breast fibroadenosis , breast neoplasm , breast pain .
Respiratory system : Frequent : sinusitis .
Infrequent : bronchitis , coughing , dyspnea .
Rare : bronchospasm , epistaxis , hypoxia , laryngitis , pneumonia .
Skin and appendages : Infrequent : pruritus .
Rare : acne , bullous eruption , dermatitis , furunculosis , injection - site inflammation , photosensitivity reaction , urticaria .
Special senses : Frequent : diplopia , vision abnormal .
Infrequent : eye irritation , eye pain , scleritis , taste perversion , tinnitus .
Rare : conjunctivitis , corneal ulceration , lacrimation abnormal , parosmia , photopsia .
Urogenital system : Frequent : urinary tract infection .
Infrequent : cystitis , urinary incontinence .
Rare : acute renal failure , dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia , polyuria , pyelonephritis , renal pain , urinary retention .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CNS depressants : Enhanced CNS - depressant effects with combination use .
Use with alcohol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7 . 1 ) • Imipramine : Decreased alertness observed with combination use .
( 7 . 1 ) • Chlorpromazine : Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed with combination use ( 7 . 1 ) • Rifampin : Combination use decreases exposure to and effects of zolpidem ( 7 . 2 ) • Ketoconazole : Combination use increases exposure to and effect of zolpidem ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 CNS - active drugs Since the systematic evaluations of zolpidem in combination with other CNS - active drugs have been limited , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of any CNS - active drug to be used with zolpidem .
Any drug with CNS - depressant effects could potentially enhance the CNS - depressant effects of zolpidem .
An immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate was evaluated in healthy subjects in single - dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs .
Imipramine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20 % decrease in peak levels of imipramine , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness .
Similarly , chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance .
A study involving haloperidol and zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
The lack of a drug interaction following single - dose administration does not predict a lack following chronic administration .
An additive effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and zolpidem was demonstrated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem 10 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg at steady - state levels in male volunteers did not demonstrate any clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions .
When multiple doses of zolpidem and fluoxetine at steady - state concentrations were evaluated in healthy females , the only significant change was a 17 % increase in the zolpidem half - life .
There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance .
Following five consecutive nightly doses of zolpidem 10 mg in the presence of sertraline 50 mg ( 17 consecutive daily doses , at 7 : 00 am , in healthy female volunteers ) , zolpidem Cmax was significantly higher ( 43 % ) and Tmax was significantly decreased ( 53 % ) .
Pharmacokinetics of sertraline and N - desmethylsertraline were unaffected by zolpidem .
7 . 2 Drugs that affect drug metabolism via cytochrome P450 Some compounds known to inhibit CYP3A may increase exposure to zolpidem .
The effect of inhibitors of other P450 enzymes has not been carefully evaluated .
A randomized , double - blind , crossover interaction study in ten healthy volunteers between itraconazole ( 200 mg once daily for 4 days ) and a single dose of zolpidem ( 10 mg ) given 5 hours after the last dose of itraconazole resulted in a 34 % increase in AUC0 - ∞ of zolpidem .
There were no significant pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem on subjective drowsiness , postural sway , or psychomotor performance .
A randomized , placebo - controlled , crossover interaction study in eight healthy female subjects between five consecutive daily doses of rifampin ( 600 mg ) and a single dose of an immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate ( 20 mg ) given 17 hours after the last dose of rifampin showed significant reductions of the AUC ( – 73 % ) , Cmax ( – 58 % ) , and T1 / 2 ( – 36 % ) of zolpidem together with significant reductions in the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem .
A randomized double - blind crossover interaction study in twelve healthy subjects showed that co - administration of a single 5 mg dose of immediate - release zolpidem tartrate with ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , given as 200 mg twice daily for 2 days increased Cmax of zolpidem by a factor of 1 . 3 and increased the total AUC of zolpidem by a factor of 1 . 7 compared to zolpidem alone and prolonged the elimination half - life by approximately 30 % along with an increase in the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem .
Caution should be used when ketoconazole is given with zolpidem and consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when ketoconazole and zolpidem are given together .
Patients should be advised that use of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets with ketoconazole may enhance the sedative effects .
7 . 3 Other drugs with no interaction with zolpidem A study involving cimetidine / zolpidem and ranitidine / zolpidem combinations revealed no effect of either drug on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
Zolpidem had no effect on digoxin pharmacokinetics and did not affect prothrombin time when given with warfarin in normal subjects .
7 . 4 Drug - laboratory test interactions Zolpidem is not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
In addition , clinical data indicate that zolpidem does not cross - react with benzodiazepines , opiates , barbiturates , cocaine , cannabinoids , or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screens .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , zolpidem may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing mothers : Zolpidem is excreted in human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness not established .
Hallucinations ( incidence rate 7 . 4 % ) and other psychiatric and / or nervous system adverse reactions were observed frequently in a study of pediatric patients with Attention - Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder ( 5 . 6 , 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in pregnant women .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Administration of zolpidem to pregnant rats and rabbits resulted in adverse effects on offspring development at doses greater than the zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 12 . 5 mg / day ( approximately 10 mg / day zolpidem base ) ; however , teratogenicity was not observed .
When zolpidem was administered at oral doses of 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg ( approximately 4 , 20 and 100 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis , dose - related decreases in fetal skull ossification occurred at all but the lowest dose , which is approximately 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
In rabbits treated during organogenesis with zolpidem at oral doses of 1 , 4 , and 16 mg base / kg ( approximately 2 , 8 and 30 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) , increased embryo - fetal death and incomplete fetal skeletal ossification occurred at the highest dose .
The no - effect dose for embryo - fetal toxicity in rabbits is approximately 8 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Administration of zolpidem to rats at oral doses of 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg ( approximately 4 , 20 and 100 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) during the latter part of pregnancy and throughout lactation produced decreased offspring growth and survival at all but the lowest dose , which is approximately 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Neonatal complications Studies in children to assess the effects of prenatal exposure to zolpidem have not been conducted ; however , cases of severe neonatal respiratory depression have been reported when zolpidem was used at the end of pregnancy , especially when taken with other CNS depressants .
Children born to mothers taking sedative - hypnotic drugs may be at some risk for withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period .
Neonatal flaccidity has also been reported in infants born to mothers who received sedative - hypnotic drugs during pregnancy .
8 . 2 Labor and delivery Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets have no established use in labor and delivery .
[ see Pregnancy ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing mothers Zolpidem is excreted in human milk .
Studies in lactating mothers indicate that the half - life of zolpidem is similar to that in non - lactating women ( 2 . 6 ± 0 . 3 hr ) .
The effect of zolpidem on the nursing infant is not known .
Caution should be exercised when the zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness of zolpidem have not been established in pediatric patients .
In an 8 - week controlled study , 201 pediatric patients ( aged 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( 90 % of the patients were using psychoanaleptics ) , were treated with an oral solution of zolpidem ( n = 136 ) , or placebo ( n = 65 ) .
Zolpidem did not significantly decrease latency to persistent sleep , compared to placebo , as measured by polysomnography after 4 weeks of treatment .
Psychiatric and nervous system disorders comprised the most frequent ( > 5 % ) treatment emergent adverse reactions observed with zolpidem versus placebo and included dizziness ( 23 . 5 % vs . 1 . 5 % ) , headache ( 12 . 5 % vs . 9 . 2 % ) , and hallucinations ( 7 . 4 % vs . 0 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Ten patients on zolpidem ( 7 . 4 % ) discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction .
FDA has not required pediatric studies of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in the pediatric population based on these efficacy and safety findings .
8 . 5 Geriatric use A total of 99 elderly ( ≥ 65 years of age ) received daily doses of 6 . 25 mg zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in a 3 - week placebo - controlled study .
The adverse reaction profile of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg in this population was similar to that of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg in younger adults ( ≤ 64 years of age ) .
Dizziness was reported in 8 % of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets - treated patients compared with 3 % of those treated with placebo .
The dose of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in elderly patients is 6 . 25 mg to minimize adverse effects related to impaired motor and / or cognitive performance and unusual sensitivity to sedative / hypnotic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled substance Zolpidem tartrate is classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance by federal regulation .
9 . 2 Abuse Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Abuse is characterized by misuse of the drug for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug induces changes that result in a diminution of one or more of the drug effects over time .
Tolerance may occur to both desired and undesired effects of drugs and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiological disease with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , using a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Studies of abuse potential in former drug abusers found that the effects of single doses of zolpidem tartrate 40 mg were similar , but not identical , to diazepam 20 mg , while zolpidem tartrate 10 mg effects were difficult to distinguish from placebo .
Because persons with a history of addiction to , or abuse of , drugs or alcohol are at increased risk for misuse , abuse and addiction of zolpidem , they should be monitored carefully when receiving zolpidem or any other hypnotic .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical dependence is a state of adaptation that is manifested by a specific withdrawal syndrome that can be produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , decreasing blood level of the drug , and / or administration of an antagonist .
Sedative / hypnotics have produced withdrawal signs and symptoms following abrupt discontinuation .
These reported symptoms range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a withdrawal syndrome that may include abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , tremors , and convulsions .
The following adverse events , which are considered to meet the DSM - III - R criteria for uncomplicated sedative / hypnotic withdrawal , were reported during U . S . clinical trials following placebo substitution occurring within 48 hours following last zolpidem treatment : fatigue , nausea , flushing , lightheadedness , uncontrolled crying , emesis , stomach cramps , panic attack , nervousness , and abdominal discomfort .
These reported adverse events occurred at an incidence of 1 % or less .
However , available data cannot provide a reliable estimate of the incidence , if any , of dependence during treatment at recommended doses .
Postmarketing reports of abuse , dependence and withdrawal have been received .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and symptoms In postmarketing experience of overdose with zolpidem tartrate alone , or in combination with CNS - depressant agents , impairment of consciousness ranging from somnolence to coma , cardiovascular and / or respiratory compromise and fatal outcomes have been reported .
10 . 2 Recommended treatment General symptomatic and supportive measures should be used along with immediate gastric lavage where appropriate .
Intravenous fluids should be administered as needed .
Zolpidem ’ s sedative hypnotic effect was shown to be reduced by flumazenil and therefore may be useful ; however , flumazenil administration may contribute to the appearance of neurological symptoms ( convulsions ) .
As in all cases of drug overdose , respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and other appropriate signs should be monitored and general supportive measures employed .
Hypotension and CNS depression should be monitored and treated by appropriate medical intervention .
Sedating drugs should be withheld following zolpidem overdosage , even if excitation occurs .
The value of dialysis in the treatment of overdosage has not been determined , although hemodialysis studies in patients with renal failure receiving therapeutic doses have demonstrated that zolpidem is not dialyzable .
As with the management of all overdosage , the possibility of multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
The physician may wish to consider contacting a poison control center for up - to - date information on the management of hypnotic drug product overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets contain zolpidem tartrate , a non - benzodiazepine hypnotic of the imidazopyridine class .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are available in 6 . 25 mg strength for oral administration .
Chemically , zolpidem is N , N , 6 - trimethyl - 2 - p - tolylimidazo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyridine - 3 - acetamide L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 2 : 1 ) .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zolpidem tartrate is a white to off - white crystalline powder that is sparingly soluble in water , alcohol , and propylene glycol .
It has a molecular weight of 764 . 88 .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets consist of a two - portion tablet : one portion that releases its drug content immediately and another portion that allows a delayed release of additional drug content .
The 6 . 25 mg zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , tartaric acid , povidone , silicified microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal anhydrous silica , light anhydrous silicic acid , sodium bicarbonate , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , methacrylic acid copolymer , silica , triethyl citrate , and polyvinyl alcohol .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 MECHANISM OF ACTION Zolpidem , the active moiety of zolpidem tartrate , is a hypnotic agent with a chemical structure unrelated to benzodiazepines , barbiturates , or other drugs with known hypnotic properties .
It interacts with a GABA - BZ receptor complex and shares some of the pharmacological properties of the benzodiazepines .
In contrast to the benzodiazepines , which non - selectively bind to and activate all BZ receptor subtypes , zolpidem in vitro binds the BZ1 receptor preferentially with a high affinity ratio of the α1 / α5 subunits .
This selective binding of zolpidem on the BZ1 receptor is not absolute , but it may explain the relative absence of myorelaxant and anticonvulsant effects in animal studies as well as the preservation of deep sleep ( stages 3 and 4 ) in human studies of zolpidem tartrate at hypnotic doses .
12 . 3 PHARMACOKINETICS Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets exhibit biphasic absorption characteristics , which results in rapid initial absorption from the gastrointestinal tract similar to zolpidem tartrate immediate - release , then provides extended plasma concentrations beyond three hours after administration .
A study in 24 healthy male subjects was conducted to compare mean zolpidem plasma concentration - time profiles obtained after single oral administration of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg and of an immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate ( 10 mg ) .
The terminal elimination half - life observed with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets ( 12 . 5 mg ) was similar to that obtained with immediate - release zolpidem tartrate ( 10 mg ) .
The mean plasma concentration - time profiles are shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In adult and elderly patients treated with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , there was no evidence of accumulation after repeated once - daily dosing for up to two weeks .
Absorption : Following administration of Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets , administered as a single 12 . 5 mg dose in healthy male adult subjects , the mean peak concentration ( Cmax ) of zolpidem was 134 ng / mL ( range : 68 . 9 to 197 ng / ml ) occurring at a median time ( Tmax ) of 1 . 5 hours .
The mean AUC of zolpidem was 740 ng · hr / mL ( range : 295 to 1359 ng · hr / mL ) .
A food - effect study in 45 healthy subjects compared the pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg when administered while fasting or within 30 minutes after a meal .
Results demonstrated that with food , mean AUC and Cmax were decreased by 23 % and 30 % , respectively , while median Tmax was increased from 2 hours to 4 hours .
The half - life was not changed .
These results suggest that , for faster sleep onset , zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should not be administered with or immediately after a meal .
Distribution : Total protein binding was found to be 92 . 5 ± 0 . 1 % and remained constant , independent of concentration between 40 and 790 ng / mL .
Metabolism : Zolpidem is converted to inactive metabolites that are eliminated primarily by renal excretion .
Elimination : When zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets were administered as a single 12 . 5 mg dose in healthy male adult subjects , the mean zolpidem elimination half - life was 2 . 8 hours ( range : 1 . 62 to 4 . 05 hr ) .
Special Populations Elderly : In 24 elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) healthy subjects administered a single 6 . 25 mg dose of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , the mean peak concentration ( Cmax ) of zolpidem was 70 . 6 ( range : 35 . 0 to 161 ) ng / mL occurring at a median time ( Tmax ) of 2 . 0 hours .
The mean AUC of zolpidem was 413 ng · hr / mL ( range : 124 to 1190 ) ng · hr / mL and the mean elimination half - life was 2 . 9 hours ( range : 1 . 59 to 5 . 50 hours ) .
Hepatic Impairment : Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets were not studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of an immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate in eight patients with chronic hepatic insufficiency were compared to results in healthy subjects .
Following a single 20 - mg oral zolpidem tartrate dose , mean Cmax and AUC were found to be two times ( 250 vs . 499 ng / mL ) and five times ( 788 vs . 4 , 203 ng · hr / mL ) higher , respectively , in hepatically compromised patients .
Tmax did not change .
The mean half - life in cirrhotic patients of 9 . 9 hr ( range : 4 . 1 to 25 . 8 hr ) was greater than that observed in normal subjects of 2 . 2 hr ( range : 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 hr ) .
Dosing should be modified accordingly in patients with hepatic insufficiency [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets were not studied in patients with renal impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of an immediate - release formulation of zolpidem tartrate were studied in 11 patients with end - stage renal failure ( mean ClCr = 6 . 5 ± 1 . 5 mL / min ) undergoing hemodialysis three times a week , who were dosed with zolpidem tartrate 10 mg orally each day for 14 or 21 days .
No statistically significant differences were observed for Cmax , Tmax , half - life , and AUC between the first and last day of drug administration when baseline concentration adjustments were made .
On day 1 , Cmax was 172 ± 29 ng / mL ( range : 46 to 344 ng / mL ) .
After repeated dosing for 14 or 21 days , Cmax was 203 ± 32 ng / mL ( range : 28 to 316 ng / mL ) .
On day 1 , Tmax was 1 . 7 ± 0 . 3 hr ( range : 0 . 5 to 3 hr ) ; after repeated dosing Tmax was 0 . 8 ± 0 . 2 hr ( range : 0 . 5 to 2 hr ) .
This variation is accounted for by noting that last - day serum sampling began 10 hours after the previous dose , rather than after 24 hours .
This resulted in residual drug concentration and a shorter period to reach maximal serum concentration .
On day 1 , T1 / 2 was 2 . 4 ± 0 . 4 hr ( range : 0 . 4 to 5 . 1 hr ) .
After repeated dosing , T1 / 2 was 2 . 5 ± 0 . 4 hr ( range : 0 . 7 to 4 . 2 hr ) .
AUC was 796 ± 159 ng · hr / mL after the first dose and 818 ± 170 ng · hr / mL after repeated dosing .
Zolpidem was not hemodialyzable .
No accumulation of unchanged drug appeared after 14 or 21 days .
Zolpidem pharmacokinetics were not significantly different in renally - impaired patients .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with compromised renal function .
However , as a general precaution , these patients should be closely monitored .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility Carcinogenesis : Zolpidem was administered to mice and rats for 2 years at dietary dosages of 4 , 18 , and 80 mg base / kg .
In mice , these doses are approximately 2 , 9 , and 40 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 12 . 5 mg / day ( 10 mg zolpidem base ) on mg / m2 basis .
In rats , these doses are approximately 4 , 18 , and 80 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in mice .
In rats , renal tumors ( lipoma , liposarcoma ) were seen at the mid - and high doses .
Mutagenesis : Zolpidem was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation , mouse lymphoma , and chromosomal aberration ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus ) genetic toxicology assays .
Impairment of fertility : Oral administration of zolpidem ( doses of 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg or approximately 4 , 20 , and 100 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) to rats prior to and during mating , and continuing in females through postpartum day 25 , resulted in irregular estrus cycles and prolonged precoital intervals .
The no - effect dose for these findings is approximately 20 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
There was no impairment of fertility at any dose tested .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Controlled clinical trials Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets were evaluated in three placebo - controlled studies for the treatment of patients with chronic primary insomnia ( as defined in the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , DSM IV ) .
Adult outpatients ( 18 - 64 years ) with primary insomnia ( N = 212 ) were evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , parallel - group , 3 - week trial comparing zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg and placebo .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg decreased wake time after sleep onset ( WASO ) for the first 7 hours during the first 2 nights and for the first 5 hours after 2 weeks of treatment .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg were superior to placebo on objective measures ( polysomnography recordings ) of sleep induction ( by decreasing latency to persistent sleep [ LPS ] ) during the first 2 nights of treatment and after 2 weeks of treatment .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg were also superior to placebo on the patient reported global impression regarding the aid to sleep after the first 2 nights and after 3 weeks of treatment .
Elderly outpatients ( ≥ 65 years ) with primary insomnia ( N = 205 ) were evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , parallel - group , 3 - week trial comparing zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg and placebo .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg decreased wake time after sleep onset ( WASO ) for the first 6 hours during the first 2 nights and the first 4 hours after 2 weeks of treatment .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg were superior to placebo on objective measures ( polysomnography recordings ) of sleep induction ( by decreasing LPS ) during the first 2 nights of treatment and after 2 weeks on treatment .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg were superior to placebo on the patient reported global impression regarding the aid to sleep after the first 2 nights and after 3 weeks of treatment .
In both studies , in patients treated with zolpidem tartrate xtended - Release Tablets , polysomnography showed increased wakefulness at the end of the night compared to placebo - treated patients .
In a 24 - week double - blind , placebo controlled , randomized study in adult outpatients ( 18 - 64 years ) with primary insomnia ( N = 1025 ) , zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg administered as needed ( 3 to 7 nights per week ) were superior to placebo over 24 weeks , on patient global impression regarding aid to sleep , and on patient - reported specific sleep parameters for sleep induction and sleep maintenance with no significant increased frequency of drug intake observed over time .
14 . 2 Studies pertinent to safety concerns for sedative / hypnotic drugs Next - day residual effects : In five clinical studies [ three controlled studies in adults ( 18 - 64 years of age ) administered zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg and two controlled studies in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years of age ) administered zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg or 12 . 5 mg ] , the effect of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets on vigilance , memory , or motor function were assessed using neurocognitive tests .
In these studies , no significant decrease in performance was observed eight hours after a nighttime dose .
In addition , no evidence of next - day residual effects was detected with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 12 . 5 mg and 6 . 25 mg using self - ratings of sedation .
During the 3 - week studies , next - day somnolence was reported by 15 % of the adult patients who received 12 . 5 mg zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets versus 2 % of the placebo group ; next - day somnolence was reported by 6 % of the elderly patients who received 6 . 25 mg zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets versus 5 % of the placebo group [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In a 6 - month study , the overall incidence of next - day somnolence was 5 . 7 % in the zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets group as compared to 2 % in the placebo group .
Rebound effects : Rebound insomnia , defined as a dose - dependent worsening in sleep parameters ( latency , sleep efficiency , and number of awakenings ) compared with baseline following discontinuation of treatment , is observed with short - and intermediate - acting hypnotics .
In the two 3 - week placebo - controlled studies in patients with primary insomnia , a rebound effect was only observed on the first night after abrupt discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
On the second night , there was no worsening compared to baseline in the zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets group .
In a 6 - month placebo - controlled study in which zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets were taken as needed ( 3 to 7 nights per week ) , within the first month a rebound effect was observed for Total Sleep Time ( not for WASO ) during the first night off medication .
After this first month period , no further rebound insomnia was observed .
After final treatment discontinuation no rebound was observed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg , are composed of two portions * and are coated , white , round , bi - convex , debossed with A2 on one side and supplied as : Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 6189 - 0 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 6189 - 1 Each tablet contains 6 . 25 mg of zolpidem tartrate .
* Portions are covered by the coating and are indistinguishable .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Prescribers or other healthcare professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with sedative - hypnotics , should counsel them in its appropriate use , and should instruct them to read the accompanying Medication Guide [ see Medication Guide ( 17 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 1 Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions Inform patients that severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have occurred with zolpidem .
Describe the signs / symptoms of these reactions and advise patients to seek medical attention immediately if any of them occur .
17 . 2 Sleep - driving and other complex behaviors There have been reports of people getting out of bed after taking a sedative - hypnotic and driving their cars while not fully awake , often with no memory of the event .
If a patient experiences such an episode , it should be reported to his or her doctor immediately , since “ sleep - driving ” can be dangerous .
This behavior is more likely to occur when zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are taken with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with “ sleep - driving ” , patients usually do not remember these events .
In addition , patients should be advised to report all concomitant medications to the prescriber .
Patients should be instructed to report events such as “ sleep - driving ” and other complex behaviors immediately to the prescriber .
17 . 3 Administration instructions Patients should be counseled to take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets right before they get into bed and only when they are able to stay in bed a full night ( 7 - 8 hours ) before being active again .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should not be crushed , divided , or chewed , and should not be taken with or immediately after a meal .
Advise patients NOT to take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets when drinking alcohol .
17 . 4 MEDICATION GUIDE MEDICATION GUIDE ZOLPIDEM TARTRATE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS Rx Only Read the Medication Guide that comes with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
After taking zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , you may get up out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
The next morning , you may not remember that you did anything during the night .
You have a higher chance for doing these activities if you drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy with zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
Reported activities include : • driving a car ( " sleep - driving " ) • making and eating food • talking on the phone • having sex • sleep - walking Call your doctor right away if you find out that you have done any of the above activities after taking zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
Important : 1 .
Take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed • Do not take more zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets than prescribed .
• Take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets right before you get in bed , not sooner .
2 .
Do not take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets if you : • drink alcohol • take other medicines that can make you sleepy .
Talk to your doctor about all of your medicines .
Your doctor will tell you if you can take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets with your other medicines .
• cannot get a full night ’ s sleep What are Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are a sedative - hypnotic ( sleep ) medicine .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are used in adults for the treatment of a sleep problem called insomnia .
Symptoms of insomnia include : • trouble falling asleep • waking up often during the night Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are not for children .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are a federally controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your doctor if you have ever abused or have been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
Who should not take Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
Do not take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets if you are allergic to anything in it .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets may not be right for you .
Before starting zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , tell your doctor about all of your health conditions , including if you : • have a history of depression , mental illness , or suicidal thoughts • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • have kidney or liver disease • have a lung disease or breathing problems • are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Medicines can interact with each other , sometimes causing serious side effects .
Do not take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets with other medicines that can make you sleepy .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
• Take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed .
Do not take more zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets than prescribed for you .
• Take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets right before you get into bed .
• Do not take zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets unless you are able to stay in bed a full night ( 7 - 8 hours ) before you must be active again .
• Swallow zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets whole .
Do not chew or break the tablets .
Tell your doctor if you cannot swallow tablets whole .
• For faster sleep onset , zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets should NOT be taken with or immediately after a meal .
• Call your doctor if your insomnia worsens or is not better within 7 to 10 days .
This may mean that there is another condition causing your sleep problems .
• If you take too many zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets or overdose , call your doctor or poison control center right away , or get emergency treatment .
What are the possible side effects of Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
Serious side effects of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets include : • getting out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
( See “ What is the most important information I should know about zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets ? ” )
• abnormal thoughts and behavior .
Symptoms include more outgoing or aggressive behavior than normal , confusion , agitation , hallucinations , worsening of depression , and suicidal thoughts or actions .
• memory loss • anxiety • severe allergic reactions .
Symptoms include swelling of the tongue or throat , trouble breathing , and nausea and vomiting .
Get emergency medical help if you get these symptoms after taking zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the above side effects or any other side effects that worry you while using zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
The most common side effects of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets are : • headache • sleepiness • dizziness • You may still feel drowsy the next day after taking zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
Do not drive or do other dangerous activities after taking zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets until you feel fully awake .
After you stop taking a sleep medicine , you may have symptoms for 1 to 2 days such as : trouble sleeping , nausea , flushing , lightheadedness , uncontrolled crying , vomiting , stomach cramps , panic attack , nervousness , and stomach area pain .
These are not all the side effects of zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
How should I store Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
• Store zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] • Keep zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets and all medicines out of reach of children .
General Information about Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets • Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
• Do not use zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
• Do not share zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets with other people , even if you think they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets , call 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or visit www . Actavis . us .
What are the ingredients in Zolpidem Tartrate Extended - Release Tablets ?
Active Ingredient : Zolpidem tartrate Inactive Ingredients : The 6 . 25 mg tablets contain : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , tartaric acid , povidone , silicified microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal anhydrous silica , light anhydrous silicic acid , sodium bicarbonate , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , methacrylic acid copolymer , silica , triethyl citrate , and polyvinyl alcohol .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Actavis Elizabeth LLC 200 Elmora Avenue Elizabeth , NJ 07207 USA Revised – July 2010 40 - 9140 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Zolpidem tartrate extended - release tablets 6 . 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
