DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces nursei .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Nystatin Topical Powder is for dematologic use .
NystatinTopical Powder contains 100 , 000 USP nystatin units per gram dispersed in talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Tricophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin topical powder is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
This topical powder is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin topical powder is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin topical powder should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT Patients using this topical powder should receive the following information and instructions : • The patient should be instructed to use this powder as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This topical powder is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
• Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
• If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin topical preparation .
It also is not known whether these preparations can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin topical preparations should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin preparations is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Very moist lesions are best treated with the topical dusting powder .
Nystatin Topical Powder Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) : Apply to candidal lesions two ( 2 ) or three ( 3 ) times daily until healing is complete .
For fungal infection of the feet caused by Candida species , the powder should be dusted on the feet , as well as , in all foot wear .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Topical Powder : 100 , 000 units nystatin per gram in 15 g ( NDC 49884 - 900 - 18 ) plastic squeeze bottles .
100 , 000 units nystatin per gram in 56 . 7 g ( NDC 44894 - 900 - 98 ) plastic squeeze bottles .
STORAGE NystatinTopical Powder : Store at 20 - 25º C ( 68 - 77º F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; avoid excessive heat ( 40 o C ; 104 o F ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Rx Only Manufactured by : KALI LABORATORIES , INC .
Somerset , NJ 08873 USA Distributed by : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL , INC .
Spring Valley , NY 10977 USA Issued : 05 / 03
