Rx Only DESCRIPTION Benztropine mesylate is a synthetic compound containing structural features found in atropine and diphenhydramine .
It is designated chemically as 3α - ( Diphenylmethoxy ) - 1αH , 5αH - tropane methanesulfonate .
Its molecular formula is C 21 H 25 NO • CH 4 O 3 S , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Benztropine mesylate is a crystalline white powder , very soluble in water , and has a molecular weight of 403 . 54 .
Each benztropine mesylate tablet USP for oral administration contains benztropine mesylate USP 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg or 2 mg .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benztropine mesylate possesses both anticholinergic and antihistaminic effects , although only the former have been established as therapeutically significant in the management of parkinsonism .
In the isolated guinea pig ileum , the anticholinergic activity of this drug is about equal to that of atropine ; however , when administered orally to unanesthetized cats , it is only about half as active as atropine .
In laboratory animals , its antihistaminic activity and duration of action approach those of pyrilamine maleate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benztropine mesylate tablets USP are indicated for use as an adjunct in the therapy of all forms of parkinsonism .
Useful also in the control of extrapyramidal disorders ( except tardive dyskinesia – see PRECAUTIONS ) due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benztropine mesylate tablets or to any component of the tablets .
Because of its atropine - like side effects , this drug is contraindicated in pediatric patients under three years of age , and should be used with caution in older pediatric patients .
WARNINGS Safe use in pregnancy has not been established .
Benztropine mesylate may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
When benztropine mesylate is given concomitantly with phenothiazines , haloperidol , or other drugs with anticholinergic or antidopaminergic activity , patients should be advised to report gastrointestinal complaints , fever or heat intolerance promptly .
Paralytic ileus , hyperthermia and heat stroke , all of which have sometimes been fatal , have occurred in patients taking anticholinergic - type antiparkinsonism drugs , including benztropine mesylate , in combination with phenothiazines and / or tricyclic antidepressants .
Since benztropine mesylate contains structural features of atropine , it may produce anhidrosis .
For this reason , it should be administered with caution during hot weather , especially when given concomitantly with other atropine - like drugs to the chronically ill , the alcoholic , those who have central nervous system disease , and those who do manual labor in a hot environment .
Anhidrosis may occur more readily when some disturbance of sweating already exists .
If there is evidence of anhidrosis , the possibility of hyperthermia should be considered .
Dosage should be decreased at the discretion of the physician so that the ability to maintain body heat equilibrium by perspiration is not impaired .
Severe anhidrosis and fatal hyperthermia have occurred .
PRECAUTIONS General Since benztropine mesylate has cumulative action , continued supervision is advisable .
Patients with a tendency to tachycardia and patients with prostatic hypertrophy should be observed closely during treatment .
Dysuria may occur , but rarely becomes a problem .
Urinary retention has been reported with benztropine mesylate .
The drug may cause complaints of weakness and inability to move particular muscle groups , especially in large doses .
For example , if the neck has been rigid and suddenly relaxes , it may feel weak , causing some concern .
In this event , dosage adjustment is required .
Mental confusion and excitement may occur with large doses , or in susceptible patients .
Visual hallucinations have been reported occasionally .
Furthermore , in the treatment of extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , in patients with mental disorders , occasionally there may be intensification of mental symptoms .
In such cases , antiparkinsonian drugs can precipitate a toxic psychosis .
Patients with mental disorders should be kept under careful observation , especially at the beginning of treatment or if dosage is increased .
Tardive dyskinesia may appear in some patients on long - term therapy with phenothiazines and related agents , or may occur after therapy with these drugs has been discontinued .
Antiparkinsonism agents do not alleviate the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia , and in some instances may aggravate them .
Benztropine mesylate is not recommended for use in patients with tardive dyskinesia .
The physician should be aware of the possible occurrence of glaucoma .
Although the drug does not appear to have any adverse effect on simple glaucoma , it probably should not be used in angle - closure glaucoma .
Drug Interactions Antipsychotic drugs such as phenothiazines or haloperidol ; tricyclic antidepressants ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use Because of the atropine - like side effects , benztropine mesylate should be used with caution in pediatric patients over three years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions below , most of which are anticholinergic in nature , have been reported and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Cardiovascular Tachycardia .
Digestive Paralytic ileus , constipation , vomiting , nausea , dry mouth .
If dry mouth is so severe that there is difficulty in swallowing or speaking , or loss of appetite and weight , reduce dosage , or discontinue the drug temporarily .
Slight reduction in dosage may control nausea and still give sufficient relief of symptoms .
Vomiting may be controlled by temporary discontinuation , followed by resumption at a lower dosage .
Nervous System Toxic psychosis , including confusion , disorientation , memory impairment , visual hallucinations ; exacerbation of preexisting psychotic symptoms ; nervousness ; depression ; listlessness ; numbness of fingers .
Special Senses Blurred vision , dilated pupils .
Urogenital Urinary retention , dysuria .
Metabolic / Immune or Skin Occasionally , an allergic reaction , e . g . , skin rash , develops .
If this can not be controlled by dosage reduction , the medication should be discontinued .
Other Heat stroke , hyperthermia , fever .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations - May be any of those seen in atropine poisoning or antihistamine overdosage : CNS depression , preceded or followed by stimulation ; confusion ; nervousness ; listlessness ; intensification of mental symptoms or toxic psychosis in patients with mental illness being treated with neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) ; hallucinations ( especially visual ) ; dizziness ; muscle weakness ; ataxia ; dry mouth ; mydriasis ; blurred vision ; palpitations ; tachycardia ; elevated blood pressure ; nausea ; vomiting ; dysuria ; numbness of fingers ; dysphagia ; allergic reactions , e . g . , skin rash ; headache ; hot , dry , flushed skin ; delirium ; coma ; shock ; convulsions ; respiratory arrest ; anhidrosis ; hyperthermia ; glaucoma ; constipation .
Treatment - Physostigmine salicylate , 1 to 2 mg , SC or IV , reportedly will reverse symptoms of anticholinergic intoxication .
* A second injection may be given after 2 hours if required .
Otherwise treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
Induce emesis or perform gastric lavage ( contraindicated in precomatose , convulsive , or psychotic states ) .
Maintain respiration .
A short - acting barbiturate may be used for CNS excitement , but with caution to avoid subsequent depression ; supportive care for depression ( avoid convulsant stimulants such as picrotoxin , pentylenetetrazol , or bemegride ) ; artificial respiration for severe respiratory depression ; a local miotic for mydriasis and cycloplegia ; ice bags or other cold applications and alcohol sponges for hyperpyrexia , a vasopressor and fluids for circulatory collapse .
Darken room for photophobia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Benztropine mesylate tablets should be used when patients are able to take oral medication .
The injection is especially useful for psychotic patients with acute dystonic reactions or other reactions that make oral medication difficult or impossible .
It is recommended also when a more rapid response is desired than can be obtained with the tablets .
Because of cumulative action , therapy should be initiated with a low dose which is increased gradually at five or six - day intervals to the smallest amount necessary for optimal relief .
Increases should be made in increments of 0 . 5 mg , to a maximum of 6 mg , or until optimal results are obtained without excessive adverse reactions .
Postencephalitic and Idiopathic Parkinsonism - The usual daily dose is 1 to 2 mg , with a range of 0 . 5 to 6 mg orally or parenterally .
As with any agent used in parkinsonism , dosage must be individualized according to age and weight , and the type of parkinsonism being treated .
Generally , older patients , and thin patients cannot tolerate large doses .
Most patients with postencephalitic parkinsonism need fairly large doses and tolerate them well .
Patients with a poor mental outlook are usually poor candidates for therapy .
In idiopathic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated with a single daily dose of 0 . 5 to 1 mg at bedtime .
In some patients , this will be adequate ; in others 4 to 6 mg a day may be required .
In postencephalitic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated in most patients with 2 mg a day in one or more doses .
In highly sensitive patients , therapy may be initiated with 0 . 5 mg at bedtime , and increased as necessary .
Some patients experience greatest relief by taking the entire dose at bedtime ; others react more favorably to divided doses , two to four times a day .
Frequently , one dose a day is sufficient , and divided doses may be unnecessary or undesirable .
The long duration of action of this drug makes it particularly suitable for bedtime medication when its effects may last throughout the night , enabling patients to turn in bed during the night more easily , and to rise in the morning .
When benztropine mesylate is started , do not terminate therapy with other antiparkinsonian agents abruptly .
If the other agents are to be reduced or discontinued , it must be done gradually .
Many patients obtain greatest relief with combination therapy .
Benztropine mesylate may be used concomitantly with Carbidopa - Levodopa , or with levodopa , in which case periodic dosage adjustment may be required in order to maintain optimum response .
Drug - Induced Extrapyramidal Disorders - In treating extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , the recommended dosage is 1 to 4 mg once or twice a day orally or parenterally .
Dosage must be individualized according to the need of the patient .
Some patients require more than recommended ; others do not need as much .
In acute dystonic reactions , 1 to 2 mL of the injection usually relieves the condition quickly .
After that , the tablets , 1 to 2 mg twice a day , usually prevent recurrence .
When extrapyramidal disorders develop soon after initiation of treatment with neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , they are likely to be transient .
One to 2 mg of benztropine mesylate tablets two or three times a day usually provides relief within one or two days .
After one or two weeks , the drug should be withdrawn to determine the continued need for it .
If such disorders recur , benztropine mesylate can be reinstituted .
Certain drug - induced extrapyramidal disorders that develop slowly may not respond to benztropine mesylate .
HOW SUPPLIED Benztropine Mesylate Tablets USP , for oral use , are supplied in the following forms : 2 mg : Compressed tablet , white , round , flat - faced beveled edge tablets debossed “ N ” left of bisect “ 11 ” on one side and plain on other side , in NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 00 NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 01 NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 02 NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 03 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK PACKAGING : 100 in 1 BOX PACKAGING : 1 in 1 POUCH PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in well - closed containers as defined in the USP .
Keep out of reach of children .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL DRUG : Benztropine Mesylate GENERIC : benztropine mesylate DOSAGE : TABLET ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 0 NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 1 NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 2 NDC : 70518 - 1709 - 3 COLOR : white SHAPE : ROUND SCORE : Two even pieces SIZE : 7 mm IMPRINT : N ; 11 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK PACKAGING : 100 in 1 BOX PACKAGING : 1 in 1 POUCH PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • BENZTROPINE MESYLATE 2 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • SILICON DIOXIDE • MAGNESIUM STEARATE • CELLULOSE , MICROCRYSTALLINE • STARCH , CORN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
