1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium citrate is a citrate salt of potassium indicated for the management of : • Renal tubular acidosis ( RTA ) with calcium stones ( 1 . 1 ) • Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology ( 1 . 2 ) • Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Renal tubular acidosis ( RTA ) with calcium stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Objective : To restore normal urinary citrate ( greater than 320 mg / day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg / day as possible ) , and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
• Severe hypocitraturia ( urinary citrate < 150 mg / day ) : therapy should be initiated at 60 mEq per day ; a dose of 30 mEq two times per day or 20 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ( 2 . 2 ) • Mild to moderate hypocitraturia ( urinary citrate > 150 mg / day ) : therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq per day ; a dose of 15 mEq two times per day or 10 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Instructions Treatment with extended release potassium citrate should be added to a regimen that limits salt intake ( avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added salt at the table ) and encourages high fluid intake ( urine volume should be at least two liters per day ) .
The objective of treatment with potassium citrate extended - release tablets is to provide potassium citrate extended - release tablets in sufficient dosage to restore normal urinary citrate ( greater than 320 mg / day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg / day as possible ) , and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6 . 0 or 7 . 0 .
Monitor serum electrolytes ( sodium , potassium , chloride and carbon dioxide ) , serum creatinine and complete blood counts every four months and more frequently in patients with cardiac disease , renal disease or acidosis .
Perform electrocardiograms periodically .
Treatment should be discontinued if there is hyperkalemia , a significant rise in serum creatinine or a significant fall in blood hematocrit or hemoglobin .
2 . 2 Severe Hypocitraturia In patients with severe hypocitraturia ( urinary citrate < 150 mg / day ) , therapy should be initiated at a dosage of 60 mEq / day ( 30 mEq two times / day or 20 mEq three times / day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ) .
Twenty - four hour urinary citrate and / or urinary pH measurements should be used to determine the adequacy of the initial dosage and to evaluate the effectiveness of any dosage change .
In addition , urinary citrate and / or pH should be measured every four months .
Doses of potassium citrate extended - release tablets greater than 100 mEq / day have not been studied and should be avoided .
2 . 3 Mild to Moderate Hypocitraturia In patients with mild to moderate hypocitraturia ( urinary citrate > 150 mg / day ) therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq / day ( 15 mEq two times / day or 10 mEq three times / day within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ) .
Twenty - four hour urinary citrate and / or urinary pH measurements should be used to determine the adequacy of the initial dosage and to evaluate the effectiveness of any dosage change .
Doses of potassium citrate extended - release tablets greater than 100 mEq / day have not been studied and should be avoided .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 5 mEq tablets are uncoated , modified ball - shaped , and tan to yellowish in color .
Each 5 mEq tablet is debossed with " USL " on one side and " 070 " on the other side .
• 10 mEq tablets are uncoated , elliptical - shaped , and tan to yellowish in color .
Each 10 mEq tablet is debossed with " USL " on one side and " 071 " on the other side .
Tablets : 5 mEq and 10 mEq ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated : • In patients with hyperkalemia ( or who have conditions pre - disposing them to hyperkalemia ) , as a further rise in serum potassium concentration may produce cardiac arrest .
Such conditions include : chronic renal failure , uncontrolled diabetes mellitus , acute dehydration , strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals , adrenal insufficiency , extensive tissue breakdown or the administration of a potassium - sparing agent ( such as triamterene , spironolactone or amiloride ) .
• In patients in whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract , such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying , esophageal compression , intestinal obstruction or stricture , or those taking anticholinergic medication .
• In patients with peptic ulcer disease because of its ulcerogenic potential .
• In patients with active urinary tract infection ( with either urea - splitting or other organisms , in association with either calcium or struvite stones ) .
The ability of potassium citrate extended - release tablets to increase urinary citrate may be attenuated by bacterial enzymatic degradation of citrate .
Moreover , the rise in urinary pH resulting from potassium citrate extended - release tablets therapy might promote further bacterial growth .
• In patients with renal insufficiency ( glomerular filtration rate of less than 0 . 7 ml / kg / min ) , because of the danger of soft tissue calcification and increased risk for the development of hyperkalemia .
• Patients with hyperkalemia ( or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia ) .
Such conditions include chronic renal failure , uncontrolled diabetes mellitus , acute dehydration , strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals , adrenal insufficiency , extensive tissue breakdown ( 4 ) • Patients for whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying , esophageal compression , intestinal obstruction or stricture ( 4 ) • Patients with peptic ulcer disease ( 4 ) • Patients with active urinary tract infection ( 4 ) • Patients with renal insufficiency ( glomerular filtration rate of less than 0 . 7 ml / kg / min ) ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hyperkalemia : In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium , potassium citrate extended - release tablets administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium citrate extended - release tablets in patients with chronic renal failure , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure , should be avoided ( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal lesions : if there is severe vomiting , abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding , potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated ( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium , potassium citrate extended - release tablets administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium citrate extended - release tablets in patients with chronic renal failure , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure , should be avoided .
Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride ( wax - matrix ) , an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p . o . t . i . d . , potassium citrate extended - release tablets 95 mEq / day , wax - matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq / day or wax - matrix placebo , in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets and the wax - matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax - matrix placebo .
In a subsequent , similar study , lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted .
Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and / or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths .
These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets , which injured the bowel .
In addition , perhaps because wax - matrix preparations are not enteric - coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach , there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products .
The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax - matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100 , 000 patient - years .
Experience with potassium citrate extended - release tablets is limited , but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated .
If there is severe vomiting , abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding , potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort , vomiting , diarrhea , loose bowel movements or nausea .
These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Upsher - Smith Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 855 - 899 - 9180 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate extended - release tablets therapy , such as abdominal discomfort , vomiting , diarrhea , loose bowel movements or nausea .
These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract , and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks , or by reducing the dosage .
Patients may find intact matrices in their feces .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate : Potassium - sparing diuretics : concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia ( 7 . 1 ) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time : These agents ( such as anticholinergics ) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts ( 7 . 2 ) Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone inhibitors : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 3 ) Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium - sparing Diuretics : Concomitant administration of potassium citrate extended - release tablets and a potassium - sparing diuretic ( such as triamterene , spironolactone or amiloride ) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia .
7 . 2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time : These agents ( such as anticholinergics ) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts .
7 . 3 Renin - Angiotensin - Aldosterone System Inhibitors 7 . 3 Renin - Angiotensin - Aldosterone System Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) including angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , spironolactone , eplerenone , or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant RAAS therapy .
7 . 4 Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) NSAIDs may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostagladin E and impairing the renin - angiotensin system .
Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnant women : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
It is not known whether potassium citrate extended - release tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed ( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing mothers : The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq / L .
It is not known if potassium citrate extended - release tablets has an effect on this content .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be given to a woman who is breast feeding only if clearly needed ( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established ( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
It is also not known whether potassium citrate extended - release tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq / L .
It is not known if potassium citrate extended - release tablets has an effect on this content .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be given to a woman who is breast feeding only if clearly needed .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE Treatment of Overdosage : The administration of potassium salts to persons without predisposing conditions for hyperkalemia rarely causes serious hyperkalemia at recommended dosages .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - wave , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest .
Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : 1 .
Patients should be closely monitored for arrhythmias and electrolyte changes .
2 .
Elimination of medications containing potassium and of agents with potassium - sparing properties such as potassium - sparing diuretics , ARBs , ACE inhibitors , NSAIDs , certain nutritional supplements and many others .
3 .
Elimination of foods containing high levels of potassium such as almonds , apricots , bananas , beans ( lima , pinto , white ) , cantaloupe , carrot juice ( canned ) , figs , grapefruit juice , halibut , milk , oat bran , potato ( with skin ) , salmon , spinach , tuna and many others .
4 .
Intravenous calcium gluconate if the patient is at no risk or low risk of developing digitalis toxicity .
5 .
Intravenous administration of 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
6 .
Correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
7 .
Hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
8 .
Exchange resins may be used .
However , this measure alone is not sufficient for the acute treatment of hyperkalemia .
Lowering potassium levels too rapidly in patients taking digitalis can produce digitalis toxicity .
11 DESCRIPTION Potassium citrate is a citrate salt of potassium .
Its empirical formula is K 3 C 6 H 5 O 7 ∙ H 2 O , and it has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are yellowish to tan , oral wax - matrix tablets , containing either 5 mEq ( 540 mg ) potassium citrate or 10 mEq ( 1080 mg ) potassium citrate each .
Inactive ingredients include carnauba wax and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action When potassium citrate extended - release tablets are given orally , the metabolism of absorbed citrate produces an alkaline load .
The induced alkaline load in turn increases urinary pH and raises urinary citrate by augmenting citrate clearance without measurably altering ultrafilterable serum citrate .
Thus , potassium citrate extended - release tablets therapy appears to increase urinary citrate principally by modifying the renal handling of citrate , rather than by increasing the filtered load of citrate .
The increased filtered load of citrate may play some role , however , as in small comparisons of oral citrate and oral bicarbonate , citrate had a greater effect on urinary citrate .
In addition to raising urinary pH and citrate , potassium citrate extended - release tablets increase urinary potassium by approximately the amount contained in the medication .
In some patients , potassium citrate extended - release tablets cause a transient reduction in urinary calcium .
The changes induced by potassium citrate extended - release tablets produce urine that is less conducive to the crystallization of stone - forming salts ( calcium oxalate , calcium phosphate and uric acid ) .
Increased citrate in the urine , by complexing with calcium , decreases calcium ion activity and thus the saturation of calcium oxalate .
Citrate also inhibits the spontaneous nucleation of calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate ( brushite ) .
The increase in urinary pH also decreases calcium ion activity by increasing calcium complexation to dissociated anions .
The rise in urinary pH also increases the ionization of uric acid to the more soluble urate ion .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets therapy does not alter the urinary saturation of calcium phosphate , since the effect of increased citrate complexation of calcium is opposed by the rise in pH - dependent dissociation of phosphate .
Calcium phosphate stones are more stable in alkaline urine .
In the setting of normal renal function , the rise in urinary citrate following a single dose begins by the first hour and lasts for 12 hours .
With multiple doses the rise in citrate excretion reaches its peak by the third day and averts the normally wide circadian fluctuation in urinary citrate , thus maintaining urinary citrate at a higher , more constant level throughout the day .
When the treatment is withdrawn , urinary citrate begins to decline toward the pre - treatment level on the first day .
The rise in citrate excretion is directly dependent on the potassium citrate extended - release tablets dosage .
Following long - term treatment , potassium citrate extended - release tablets at a dosage of 60 mEq / day raises urinary citrate by approximately 400 mg / day and increases urinary pH by approximately 0 . 7 units .
In patients with severe renal tubular acidosis or chronic diarrheal syndrome where urinary citrate may be very low ( < 100 mg / day ) , potassium citrate extended - release tablets may be relatively ineffective in raising urinary citrate .
A higher dose of potassium citrate extended - release tablets may therefore be required to produce a satisfactory citraturic response .
In patients with renal tubular acidosis in whom urinary pH may be high , potassium citrate extended - release tablets produce a relatively small rise in urinary pH . 14 CLINICAL STUDIES The pivotal potassium citrate extended - release tablets trials were non - randomized and non - placebo controlled where dietary management may have changed coincidentally with pharmacological treatment .
Therefore , the results as presented in the following sections may overstate the effectiveness of the product .
14 . 1 Renal tubular acidosis ( RTA ) with calcium stones The effect of oral potassium citrate therapy in a non - randomized , non - placebo controlled clinical study of five men and four women with calcium oxalate / calcium phosphate nephrolithiasis and documented incomplete distal renal tubular acidosis was examined .
The main inclusion criterion was a history of stone passage or surgical removal of stones during the 3 years prior to initiation of potassium citrate therapy .
All patients began alkali treatment with 60 to 80 mEq potassium citrate daily in 3 or 4 divided doses .
Throughout treatment , patients were instructed to stay on a sodium restricted diet ( 100 mEq / day ) and to reduce oxalate intake ( limited intake of nuts , dark roughage , chocolate and tea ) .
A moderate calcium restriction ( 400 to 800 mg / day ) was imposed on patients with hypercalciuria .
X - rays of the urinary tract , available in all patients , were reviewed to determine presence of pre - existing stones , appearance of new stones , or change in the number of stones .
Potassium citrate therapy was associated with inhibition of new stone formation in patients with distal tubular acidosis .
Three of the nine patients continued to pass stones during the on - treatment phase .
While it is likely that these patients passed pre - existing stones during therapy , the most conservative assumption is that the passed stones were newly formed .
Using this assumption , the stone - passage remission rate was 67 % .
All patients had a reduced stone formation rate .
Over the first 2 years of treatment , the on - treatment stone formation rate was reduced from 13 ± 27 to 1 ± 2 per year .
14 . 2 Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology Eighty - nine patients with hypocitraturic calcium nephrolithiasis or uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium nephrolithiasis participated in this non - randomized , non - placebo controlled clinical study .
Four groups of patients were treated with potassium citrate : Group 1 was comprised of 19 patients , 10 with renal tubular acidosis and 9 with chronic diarrheal syndrome , Group 2 was comprised of 37 patients , 5 with uric acid stones alone , 6 with uric acid lithiasis and calcium stones , 3 with type 1 absorptive hypercalciuria , 9 with type 2 absorptive hypercalciuria and 14 with hypocitraturia .
Group 3 was comprised of 15 patients with history of relapse on other therapy and Group 4 was comprised of 18 patients , 9 with type 1 absorptive hypercalciuria and calcium stones , 1 with type 2 absorptive hypercalciuria and calcium stones , 2 with hyperuricosuric calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis , 4 with uric acid lithiasis accompanied by calcium stones and 2 with hypocitraturia and hyperuricemia accompanied by calcium stones .
The dose of potassium citrate ranged from 30 to 100 mEq per day , and usually was 20 mEq administered orally 3 times daily .
Patients were followed in an outpatient setting every 4 months during treatment and were studied over a period from 1 to 4 . 33 years .
A three - year retrospective pre - study history for stone passage or removal was obtained and corroborated by medical records .
Concomitant therapy ( with thiazide or allopurinol ) was allowed if patients had hypercalciuria , hyperuricosuria or hyperuricemia .
Group 2 was treated with potassium citrate alone .
In all groups , treatment that included potassium citrate was associated with a sustained increase in urinary citrate excretion from subnormal values to normal values ( 400 to 700 mg / day ) , and a sustained increase in urinary pH from 5 . 6 to 6 . 0 to approximately 6 . 5 .
The stone formation rate was reduced in all groups as shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Effect of Potassium Citrate Extended - release Tablets In Patients With Calcium Oxalate Nephrolithiasis . Stones Formed Per Year Group Baseline On Treatment Remission [ 1 ] Any Decrease I ( n = 19 ) 12 ± 30 0 . 9 ± 1 . 3 58 % 95 % II ( n = 37 ) 1 . 2 ± 2 0 . 4 ± 1 . 5 89 % 97 % III ( n = 15 ) 4 . 2 ± 7 0 . 7 ± 2 67 % 100 % IV ( n = 18 ) 3 . 4 ± 8 0 . 5 ± 2 94 % 100 % Total ( n = 89 ) 4 . 3 ± 15 0 . 6 ± 2 80 % 98 % [ 1 ] Remission defined as " the percentage of patients remaining free of newly formed stones during treatment " .
14 . 3 Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones A long - term non - randomized , non - placebo controlled clinical trial with eighteen adult patients with uric acid lithiasis participated in the study .
Six patients formed only uric acid stones , and the remaining 12 patients formed mixed stones containing both uric acid and calcium salts or formed both uric acid stones ( without calcium salts ) and calcium stones ( without uric acid ) on separate occasions .
Eleven of the 18 patients received potassium citrate alone .
Six of the 7 other patients also received allopurinol for hyperuricemia with gouty arthritis , symptomatic hyperuricemia , or hyperuricosuria .
One patient also received hydrochlorothiazide because of unclassified hypercalciuria .
The main inclusion criterion was a history of stone passage or surgical removal of stones during the 3 years prior to initiation of potassium citrate therapy .
All patients received potassium citrate at a dosage of 30 to 80 mEq / day in three - to - four divided doses and were followed every four months for up to 5 years .
While on potassium citrate treatment , urinary pH rose significantly from a low value of 5 . 3 ± 0 . 3 to within normal limits ( 6 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) .
Urinary citrate which was low before treatment rose to the high normal range and only one stone was formed in the entire group of 18 patients .
15 REFERENCES • Pak , C . ( 1987 ) .
Citrate and Renal Calculi .
Mineral and Electrolyte Metabolism 13 , 257 - 266 .
• Pak , C . ( 1985 ) .
Long - Term Treatment of Calcium Nephrolithiasis with Potassium Citrate .
The Journal of Urology 134 , 11 - 19 .
• Preminger , G . M . , K . Sakhaee , C . Skurla and C . Y . C . Pak .
( 1985 ) .
Prevention of Recurrent Calcium Stone Formation with Potassium Citrate therapy in Patients with Distal Renal Tubular Acidosis .
The Journal of Urology 134 , 20 - 23 .
• Pak , C . Y . C . , K . Sakhaee and C . Fuller .
( 1986 ) .
Successful Management of Uric Acid Nephrolithiasis with Potassium Citrate .
Kidney International 30 , 422 - 428 .
• Hollander - Rodriguez , J et al . ( 2006 ) .
Hyperkalemia , American Family Physician , Vol .
73 / No .
2 .
• Greenberg , A et al . ( 1998 ) .
Hyperkalemia : treatment options .
Semen Nephrol .
Jan ; 18 ( 1 ) : 46 - 57 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Potassium citrate extended - release tablets 5 mEq are uncoated , tan to yellowish in color , modified ball shaped , debossed with " USL " on one side and " 070 " on the other , supplied in bottles as : NDC 0245 - 0070 - 11 Bottle of 100 Potassium citrate extended - release tablets 10 mEq are uncoated , tan to yellowish in color , elliptical shaped , debossed with " USL " on one side and " 071 " on the other , supplied in bottles as : NDC 0245 - 0071 - 11 Bottle of 100 Storage : Store in a tight container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Administration of Drug Tell patients to take each dose without crushing , chewing or sucking the tablet .
Tell patients to take this medicine only as directed .
This is especially important if the patient is also taking both diuretics and digitalis preparations .
Tell patients to check with the doctor if there is trouble swallowing tablets or if the tablet seems to stick in the throat .
Tell patients to check with the doctor at once if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding is noticed .
Tell patients that their doctor will perform regular blood tests and electrocardiograms to ensure safety .
Distributed by UPSHER - SMITH LABORATORIES , LLC Maple Grove , MN 55369 © 2021 Upsher - Smith Laboratories , LLC L007111R1221 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 540 mg Tablet Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0245 - 0070 - 11 Potassium Citrate Extended - release Tablets 540 mg ( 5 mEq per tablet ) 100 Tablets Rx only UPSHER - SMITH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1080 mg Tablet Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1080 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0245 - 0071 - 11 Potassium Citrate Extended - release Tablets 1080 mg ( 10 mEq per tablet ) 100 Tablets Rx only UPSHER - SMITH [ MULTIMEDIA ]
