Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 5 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience pain , swelling or blistering of the skin • condition worsens , or if symptons persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : Clean and dry affected area pop apart and partially peel back protective film and apply exposed patch to site of pain .
Carefully remove remaining film while pressing the patch to skin and leave in place for up to 8 hours .
Use on affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a physician • wash hands after use with cool water Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • store in a cool dry place away from direct sunlight Inactive ingredients Benzalkonium Chloride , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Dihydroxyaluminum Aminoacetate , Edetate Disodium , Glycerin , Kaolin , Lauralkonium Chloride , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , PVP , Sodium Polyacrylate , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide , Water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 246 - 3733 Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in China PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 Patch Pouch Carton CLINICALLY RECOMMENDED NDC 59316 - 005 - 04 BIOFREEZE ® COOL THE PAIN OVERNIGHT RELIEF PATCHES MENTHOL - TOPICAL ANALGESIC Overnight pain relief patch Scented with lavender essential oil Designed to stay on through the night Optimized for comfort and flexibility 4 PATCHES 5 . 125 in x 2 . 6 in ( 13 cm x 6 . 6 cm ) each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
