1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) is a prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) should not be administered more than once daily since it has been shown that more frequent administration of prostaglandin analogs may decrease the IOP lowering effect .
Reduction of the IOP starts approximately 2 hours after the first administration with maximum effect reached after 12 hours .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower IOP .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least 5 minutes apart .
One drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing travoprost USP , 0 . 04 mg / mL .
Ophthalmic solution containing travoprost 0 . 04 mg / mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pigmentation : Pigmentation of the iris , periorbital tissue ( eyelid ) , and eyelashes can occur .
Iris pigmentation likely to be permanent .
( 5 . 1 ) • Eyelash Changes : Gradual change to eyelashes including increased length , thickness and number of lashes .
Usually reversible .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Pigmentation Travoprost ophthalmic solution has been reported to cause changes to pigmented tissues .
The most frequently reported changes have been increased pigmentation of the iris , periorbital tissue ( eyelid ) , and eyelashes .
Pigmentation is expected to increase as long as travoprost is administered .
The pigmentation change is due to increased melanin content in the melanocytes rather than to an increase in the number of melanocytes .
After discontinuation of travoprost , pigmentation of the iris is likely to be permanent , while pigmentation of the periorbital tissue and eyelash changes have been reported to be reversible in some patients .
Patients who receive treatment should be informed of the possibility of increased pigmentation .
The long - term effects of increased pigmentation are not known .
Iris color change may not be noticeable for several months to years .
Typically , the brown pigmentation around the pupil spreads concentrically towards the periphery of the iris and the entire iris or parts of the iris become more brownish .
Neither nevi nor freckles of the iris appear to be affected by treatment .
While treatment with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) can be continued in patients who develop noticeably increased iris pigmentation , these patients should be examined regularly [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Eyelash Changes Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) may gradually change eyelashes and vellus hair in the treated eye .
These changes include increased length , thickness , and number of lashes .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 3 Intraocular Inflammation Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) should be used with caution in patients with active intraocular inflammation ( e . g . , uveitis ) because the inflammation may be exacerbated .
5 . 4 Macular Edema Macular edema , including cystoid macular edema , has been reported during treatment with travoprost ophthalmic solution .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) should be used with caution in aphakic patients , in pseudophakic patients with a torn posterior lens capsule , or in patients with known risk factors for macular edema .
5 . 5 Angle - closure , Inflammatory or Neovascular Glaucoma Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) has not been evaluated for the treatment of angle - closure , inflammatory or neovascular glaucoma .
5 . 6 Bacterial Keratitis There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 7 Use with Contact Lenses Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction ( 30 % to 50 % ) is conjunctival hyperemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Micro Labs USA , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 839 - 8195 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reaction observed in controlled clinical trials with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % and travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) was ocular hyperemia , which was reported in 30 % to 50 % of patients .
Up to 3 % of patients discontinued therapy due to conjunctival hyperemia .
Ocular adverse reactions reported at an incidence of 5 % to 10 % in these clinical trials included decreased visual acuity , eye discomfort , foreign body sensation , pain , and pruritus .
Ocular adverse reactions reported at an incidence of 1 % to 4 % in clinical trials with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % or travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) included abnormal vision , blepharitis , blurred vision , cataract , conjunctivitis , corneal staining , dry eye , iris discoloration , keratitis , lid margin crusting , ocular inflammation , photophobia , subconjunctival hemorrhage , and tearing .
Non - ocular adverse reactions reported at an incidence of 1 % to 5 % in these clinical studies were allergy , angina pectoris , anxiety , arthritis , back pain , bradycardia , bronchitis , chest pain , cold / flu syndrome , depression , dyspepsia , gastrointestinal disorder , headache , hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , hypotension , infection , pain , prostate disorder , sinusitis , urinary incontinence , and urinary tract infections .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % or travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The reactions , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % or travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) , or a combination of these factors , include : arrhythmia , vomiting , epistaxis , tachycardia , and insomnia .
In postmarketing use with prostaglandin analogs , periorbital and lid changes including deepening of the eyelid sulcus have been observed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Use in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years is not recommended because of potential safety concerns related to increased pigmentation following long - term chronic use .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , subcutaneous ( SC ) administration of travoprost to pregnant mice and rats throughout the period of organogenesis produced embryo - fetal lethality , spontaneous abortion , and premature delivery at potentially clinically relevant doses .
Advise pregnant women of a potential risk to a fetus .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) should be administered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown ; however , in the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data An embryo - fetal study was conducted in pregnant rats administered travoprost once daily by SC injection from gestation day ( GD ) 6 to 18 , to target the period of organogenesis .
At 10 mcg / kg ( 60 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose [ MRHOD ] , based on estimated plasma C max ) , travoprost was teratogenic in rats , evidenced by an increase in the incidence of skeletal malformations as well as external and visceral malformations , including fused sternebrae , domed head and hydrocephaly .
Travoprost caused post - implantation loss at 10 mcg / kg .
The no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) for post - implantation loss was 3 mcg / kg ( 18 times the MRHOD , based on estimated plasma C max ) .
The maternal NOAEL was 10 mcg / kg .
An embryo - fetal study was conducted in pregnant mice administered travoprost once daily by SC injection from GD 6 to 11 , to target the period of organogenesis .
At 1 mcg / kg ( 6 times the MRHOD , based on estimated plasma C max ) , travoprost caused postimplantation loss and decreased fetal weight .
The no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) for malformations was 0 . 3 mcg / kg ( 2 times the MRHOD , based on estimated plasma C max ) .
The maternal NOAEL was 1 mcg / kg .
Pre / postnatal studies were conducted in rats administered travoprost once daily by subcutaneous injection from GD 7 ( early embryonic period ) to postnatal Day 21 ( end of lactation period ) .
At doses of greater than or equal to 0 . 12 mcg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the MRHOD , based on estimated plasma C max ) , adverse pregnancy outcomes ( embryo - fetal lethality , abortion , and early delivery ) , low - birth weight and developmental delays were observed .
The NOAEL for adverse pregnancy outcomes , low - birth weight and developmental delay was 0 . 1 mcg / kg ( 0 . 6 times the MHROD , based on estimated plasma C max ) .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 0 . 72 mcg / kg ( 4 times the MHROD , based on estimated plasma C max ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the effects of travoprost on the breastfed child or milk production .
It is not known if travoprost is present in human milk following ophthalmic administration .
A study in lactating rats demonstrated that radio - labeled travoprost and / or its metabolites were excreted in milk following subcutaneous administration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years is not recommended because of potential safety concerns related to increased pigmentation following long - term chronic use .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic and Renal Impairment Travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % has been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and also in patients with renal impairment .
No clinically relevant changes in hematology , blood chemistry , or urinalysis laboratory data were observed in these patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Travoprost is a synthetic prostaglandin F analog .
Its chemical name is [ 1 R - [ 1α ( Z ) , 2β ( 1 E , 3 R * ) , 3α , 5α ] ] - 7 - [ 3 , 5 - Dihydroxy - 2 - [ 3 - hydroxy - 4 - [ 3 - ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] - 1 - butenyl ] cyclopentyl ] - 5 - heptenoic acid , 1 - methylethylester .
It has a molecular formula of C 26 H 35 F 3 O 6 and a molecular weight of 500 . 55 g / mol .
The chemical structure of travoprost is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Travoprost , USP is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow oil that is very soluble in acetonitrile , methanol , octanol , and chloroform .
It is practically insoluble in water .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) is supplied as sterile , buffered aqueous solution of travoprost with a pH of approximately 5 . 7 and an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsmol / kg .
Each mL of travoprost ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) contains Active : travoprost USP , 0 . 04 mg / mL ; Inactives : Polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil , boric acid , propylene glycol , sorbitol , zinc chloride , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Travoprost free acid , a prostaglandin analog is a selective FP prostanoid receptor agonist which is believed to reduce IOP by increasing uveoscleral outflow .
The exact mechanism of action is unknown at this time .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Travoprost is absorbed through the cornea and is hydrolyzed to the active free acid .
Data from 4 multiple dose pharmacokinetic studies ( totaling 107 subjects ) have shown that plasma concentrations of the free acid are below 0 . 01 ng / mL ( the quantitation limit of the assay ) in two - thirds of the subjects .
In those individuals with quantifiable plasma concentrations ( N = 38 ) , the mean plasma C max was 0 . 018 ± 0 . 007 ng / mL ( ranged 0 . 01 to 0 . 052 ng / mL ) and was reached within 30 minutes .
From these studies , travoprost is estimated to have a plasma half - life of 45 minutes .
There was no difference in plasma concentrations between Days 1 and 7 , indicating steady - state was reached early and that there was no significant accumulation .
Travoprost , an isopropyl ester prodrug , is hydrolyzed by esterases in the cornea to its biologically active free acid .
Systemically , travoprost free acid is metabolized to inactive metabolites via beta - oxidation of the α ( carboxylic acid ) chain to give the 1 , 2 - dinor and 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetranor analogs , via oxidation of the 15 - hydroxyl moiety , as well as via reduction of the 13 , 14 double bond .
The elimination of travoprost free acid from plasma was rapid and levels were generally below the limit of quantification within one hour after dosing .
The terminal elimination half - life of travoprost free acid was estimated from fourteen subjects and ranged from 17 minutes to 86 minutes with the mean half - life of 45 minutes .
Less than 2 % of the topical ocular dose of travoprost was excreted in the urine within 4 hours as the travoprost free acid .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats at subcutaneous doses of 10 , 30 , or 100 mcg / kg / day did not show any evidence of carcinogenic potential .
However , at 100 mcg / kg / day , male rats were only treated for 82 weeks , and the maximum tolerated dose ( MTD ) was not reached in the mouse study .
The high dose ( 100 mcg / kg ) corresponds to exposure levels 326 times ( mouse ) and 547 times ( rat ) the human exposure at the MRHOD of 0 . 04 mcg / kg , based on estimated plasma C max for active travoprost free acid .
Travoprost was not mutagenic in the Ames test , mouse micronucleus test or rat chromosome aberration assay .
A slight increase in the mutant frequency was observed in one of two mouse lymphoma assays in the presence of rat S - 9 activation enzymes .
Travoprost did not affect mating or fertility indices in male or female rats at subcutaneous doses up to 3 mcg / kg / day ( 18 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max ) .
At 10 mcg / kg / day ( 60 times the MRHOD , based on estimated plasma C max ) , the mean number of corpora lutea was reduced , and the post - implantation losses were increased .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In clinical studies , patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and baseline pressure of 25 to 27 mmHg , who were treated with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % or travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) dosed once daily in the evening , demonstrated 7 to 8 mmHg reductions in IOP .
In sub - group analyses of these studies , mean IOP reduction in black patients was up to 1 . 8 mmHg greater than in non - black patients .
It is not known at this time whether this difference is attributed to race or to heavily pigmented irides .
In a multi - center , randomized , controlled trial , patients with mean baseline IOP of 24 to 26 mmHg on TIMOPTIC ** 0 . 5 % twice daily who were treated with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % dosed daily adjunctively to TIMOPTIC ** 0 . 5 % twice daily demonstrated 6 to 7 mmHg reductions in IOP .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( Ionic Buffered Solution ) is a sterile , isotonic , buffered , preserved , aqueous solution of travoprost , USP ( 0 . 04 mg / mL ) supplied in 3 piece open nozzle container .
Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( Ionic Buffered Solution ) is supplied as a 2 . 5 mL solution in a 5 mL and 5 mL solution in a 5 mL natural polypropylene container with a polypropylene open nozzle and an HDPE Turquoise color cap .
NDC code : NDC 42571 - 130 - 27 , 2 . 5 mL fill in 5 mL NDC 42571 - 130 - 21 , 5 mL fill in 5 mL Storage : Store at 2 ° to 25 ° C ( 36 ° to 77 ° F ) .
After opening , travoprost ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Potential for Pigmentation Advise the patient about the potential for increased brown pigmentation of the iris , which may be permanent .
Inform the patient about the possibility of eyelid skin darkening , which may be reversible after discontinuation of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Potential for Eyelash Changes Inform the patient about the possibility of eyelash and vellus hair changes in the treated eye during treatment with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) .
These changes may result in a disparity between eyes in length , thickness , pigmentation , number of eyelashes or vellus hairs , and / or direction of eyelash growth .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Handling the Container Instruct the patient to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , surrounding structures , fingers , or any other surface in order to avoid contamination of the solution by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
When to Seek Physician Advice Advise the patient that if they develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , have ocular surgery , or develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and eyelid reactions , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Use with Contact Lenses Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % ( ionic buffered solution ) and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Use with Other Ophthalmic Drugs If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least 5 minutes between applications .
TIMOPTIC ** is a registered trademark of Merck & Co . , Inc .
DROP - TAINER is a trademark of Alcon INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE : Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( Ionic Buffered Solution ) Before you use Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( Ionic Buffered Solution ) for the first time : 1 .
Check to make sure that the tamper evident ring between the bottle and the cap is not broken ( See Figure A ) .
If the tamper evident ring is broken or missing , contact your pharmacist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Tear off the tamper evident ring ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
To open the bottle , remove the cap by turning it in the counter clockwise direction ( See Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Micro Labs Limited Bangalore - 560099 .
INDIA .
Manufactured for : Micro Labs USA , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Rev . 01 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42571 - 130 - 27 Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( Ionic Buffered Solution ) For Use in the Eyes Only .
2 . 5 mL Micro Labs Limited [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 42571 - 130 - 27 Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % ( Ionic Buffered Solution ) For Use in the Eyes Only Rx Only 2 . 5 mL This package is Not Child Resistant Micro Labs Limited [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
