Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride 99 . 5 mg Purpose Urinary Tract Analgesic Keep out of reach of children .
In case of an overdose , get medical help or contact poison Control Center right away .
Use Relief from urinary pain , burning , urgency and frequency associated with urinary tract infections .
Please read insert for important precautions .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : ■ kidney disease ■ allergies to foods , preservatives or dyes ■ had a hypersensitive reaction to Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride Do not use if you have Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency unless approved by your physician .
When using this product ■ stomach upset may occur , taking this product with or after meals may reduce stomach upset ■ your urine will become reddish - orange in color .
This is not harmful , but care should be taken to avoid staining clothing or other items .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ your symptoms last for more than 2 days ■ you suspect you are having an adverse reaction to the medication ■ Long - term adminitration of phenazopyridine hydrochloride has induced neoplasia in rats ( large instestine ) andmice ( liver ) .
Although no association between phenazopyridine hydrochloride and human enoplasia has beeen reported , adequate epidemiological studies along these lines have not been conducted .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
A pregnancy test and consultation with a health professional if pregnancy is confirmed is recommended prior to use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of an overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
■ This product can interfere with laboratory tests including urine , glucose ( sugar ) , and ketones tests ■ This product may stain contact lenses and other items if handled after touching tablets ■ long term administration of phenazopyridine HCI has induced neoplasia in rats ( large intestine ) and mice ( liver ) .
Although no association between phenazopyridine hydrochloride and human neoplasia has been reported , adequate epidemiological studies along these lines have not been conducted ■ Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) in a dry place and protect from light ■ Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Take 2 tablets 3 times daily with or after meals as needed for up to two days .
Take with a full glass of water .
Do not use for more than 2 days ( 12 tablets ) without consulting a doctor ■ Children under 12 : Do not use wihout consulting a doctor pregelatinized starch , microcrystalline cellulose , maize ( corn ) starch , povidone , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , polyethylene glycol call toll - free 1 - 845 - 547 - 2667 Size and color of tablets may vary .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by the owner of the registered trademark AZO Urinary Pain Relief ® .
Distributed by : Safrel Pharmaceuticals , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Compare to the active ingredient in AZO Urinary Pain Relief ® Maximum Strength * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Urinary Pain Relief PHENAZOPYRIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE 99 . 5 mg Quickly eases urinary pain , burning & urgency • More active ingredient for maximum relief • Provides targeted relief for urinary pain NDC 71309 - 779 - 72 - 72 Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 71309 - 779 - 28 - 28 Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
