Active ingredient White Petrolatum , USP 30 % Inactive Ingredients cholesterol , diazolidinyl urea , glyceryl distearate , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , polysorbate 80 , sodium laureth sulfate , steareth - 10 , water .
Use : • Helps prevent and protect chapped skin .
• Helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather .
Directions : Apply as needed .
Warnings : For external use only .
When using , do not get into eyes .
Do not use on : • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns See a doctor if condition lasts more than 7 days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using other topical medications at the same time .
Stop use if excessive irritation of the skin develops .
Patient Information MOISTUREWORX ™ ( White Petrolatum , USP - 30 % ) Spray Active Ingredient : White Petrolatum , USP 30 % Inactive Ingredients : cholesterol , diazolidinyl urea , glyceryl distearate , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , polysorbate 80 , sodium laureth sulfate , steareth - 10 , water .
Use : • Helps prevent and protect chapped or cracked skin .
• Helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather .
• Helps prevent loss of moisture , keeping the skin smooth .
Clinical Pharmacology : The outer layer of skin consists of dead skin cells which protect the delicate living cells of the deeper layers beneath .
This outer layer needs to stay moisturized in order to protect the deeper layers of skin .
To keep the moisture ( water ) from leaving the outer layer , your skin produces natural oils .
These oils also help keep irritants from the deeper layers of skin .
Regular washing with soap , or exposure to chemicals , can remove these natural oils .
When the natural oil is stripped from the outer layer , moisture quickly leaves the surface resulting in dry , irritated , and itchy skin .
Worse , the deeper layers of skin are now left exposed to harsh damaging irritants such as detergents , powder , etc .
This results in more dry , irritated , and itchy skin that ultimately becomes chapped , cracked and damaged .
Everyday skin lotions only attempt to replace natural oils with artificial ones .
This is a temporary relief but does little to heal the skin .
Regular use of these lotions can actually cause the skin to produce less natural oils .
Instead of attempting to replace these natural oils , MoistureWorx ™ , when applied to the skin , forms a moisture - barrier with the outer layer of dead skin cells .
Thus , MoistureWorx ™ helps reduce the natural oil and moisture loss , allowing the skin to heal itself .
MoistureWorx ™ helps the outer layer of skin keep its natural oils and moisturizers that protect the deeper layers of skin , leaving skin soft and supple .
MoistureWorx ™ keeps the outer layer of skin functioning so it can breathe and perspire naturally .
The active ingredient in MoistureWorx ™ is white petrolatum , one of the most common dermal barrier ingredients .
Most white petrolatum - based products currently marketed by cosmetic and pharmaceutical companies are in a cream , lotion or ointment form .
However , these products are thick , oily and aesthetically unpleasant .
The occlusive nature and moisturizing properties are desirable , but the heavy , characteristic feel of white petrolatum is not .
The use of white petrolatum as an emollient has been well accepted for dry skin conditions , especially with flaking skin such as sunburn and chapping .
It has been shown that when white petrolatum is applied to sunburned skin , evaporation is curtailed - it acts as a barrier to loss of moisture from the epidermis .
White petrolatum has a long history of consumer use , efficacy and safety .
As a result , significant evidence of efficacy and safety exists from the universal use of white petrolatum over many decades for a wide variety of topical indications .
Studies have shown that when large amounts of white petrolatum are ingested , the product is essentially nontoxic .
It has even been approved as a direct food additive .
Further , it has been established that white petrolatum is not absorbed through intact or injured skin and is neither sensitizing nor irritating .
As a result , clinical and marketing experience has confirmed that white petrolatum is safe when used as a skin protectorant .
It has an extremely low risk in actual consumer use situations .
Moreover , petroleum provides a favorable public health benefit , requires no specific dosage limitation , and requires few specific warnings and no general warnings ( e . g . pregnancy or overdose ) .
The ease of application and delivery of white petrolatum over a relatively large surface area was a key consideration in developing MoistureWorx ™ .
DermWorx has incorporated a novel microencapsulation technique ( Novasome ® ) in the formulation that will significantly increase the aqueous solubility of white petrolatum .
This technology utilizes proprietary organized lipid structures and lipid vesicle encapsulation technologies and provides for a nanoparticle in an aqueous transport system .
Using this technology , high concentrations of thick solids such as white petrolatum can be transformed into water - based sprayable products .
To evaluate the moisturization efficacy of MoistureWorx ™ , a clinical study was performed in thirty - three ( 33 ) subjects ranging in age from 21 to 60 years with mild to moderate dry skin .
MoistureWorx ™ was applied two different ways , as a “ leave - on ” and as a “ wipe - off ” product .
Moisturization efficacy was determined via a measurement of the skin moisture content ( DPM ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Trans - epidermal water loss ( TEWL ) was also determined .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The results show that MoistureWorx ™ used either as a “ leave - on ” or as a “ wipe - off ” product , was effective in moisturizing the skin .
In addition , the rate of moisture loss through the skin was significantly reduced .
The barrier durability of MoistureWorx ™ in protecting the skin from irritation resulting from exposure to know irritants was also evaluated .
Twenty - nine ( 29 ) subjects completed the study .
Sodium lauryl sulfate at concentrations of 7 . 5 % , 10 . 0 % and 12 . 5 % and sodium hydroxide at a concentration of 0 . 75 N were applied to a small patch ( 8 mm in diameter ) and the patches were applied to sites , treated and untreated , on each subjects back .
The patches were removed at 2 , 4 and 8 hours after application and the sites evaluated for dermal irritation due to the irritants .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The results show that MoistureWorx ™ protected the skin exposed to the irritants after eight hours vs . unprotected skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings : For external use only .
When using this product : • do not get into eyes .
Do not use on : • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns See a doctor if condition lasts more than 7 days .
Directions : Apply as needed not less than every four hours .
How Supplied : 4 fl .
oz spray bottle NDC : 28109 - 020 - 01 Distributed by : DermWorx , Inc .
Hollywood , FL 33022 E - mail : info @ dermworx . com www . dermworx . com Principal Display Panel - Bottle Label NDC 28109 - 020 - 01 MoistureWorx ™ SKIN PROTECTION SPRAY 30 % White Petrolatum , USP Clinically proven and patented formulation , utilizing nanotechnology , that moisturizes and protects the skin Hypoallergenic • Noncomedogenic • Fragrance Free Gently cleanses and moisturizes skin while delivering targeted , encapsulated white petrolatum into the skin ' s crack and fissures 4 fl .
oz .
( 120 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Outer Carton Label MoistureWorx ™ SKIN PROTECTION SPRAY 30 % White Petrolatum , USP Clinically proven and patented formulation , utilizing nanotechnology , that moisturizes and protects the skin Hypoallergenic • Noncomedogenic • Fragrance Free 28109 - 020 - 06 MoistureWorx ™ SKIN PROTECTION SPRAY 30 % White Petrolatum , USP Unit Contains 6 4 fl oz ( 120 mL ) Bottles Distributed by DermWorx , Inc . • Hollywood , FL 33022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
