1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paricalcitol injection is indicated for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients 5 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) on dialysis .
Paricalcitol injection is a vitamin D analog indicated for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients 5 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease on dialysis ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Ensure serum calcium is not above the upper limit of normal before initiating ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer paricalcitol injection intravenously through a hemodialysis vascular access at any time during dialysis ( 2 . 1 ) .
Adult Dose : • Initiate at 0 . 04 mcg / kg to 0 . 1 mcg / kg ( 2 . 8 mcg to 7 mcg ) no more frequently than every other day ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Target maintenance dose to intact parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels within the desired therapeutic range and serum calcium within normal limits ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Monitor serum calcium frequently ( e . g . , twice weekly ) and intact PTH levels every 2 to 4 weeks after dose initiation or adjustment ( 2 . 2 ) .
• See Table 1 in the full prescribing information for titration recommendations based upon intact PTH levels ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Suspend or decrease the dose for persistent abnormally low intact PTH or serum calcium consistently above the normal range ( 2 . 2 ) .
Pediatric Dose : • Initiate paricalcitol injection as an intravenous bolus dose of : • 0 . 04 mcg / kg if baseline intact PTH is less than 500 pg / mL , or • 0 . 08 mcg / kg if baseline intact PTH is 500 pg / mL or greater ( 2 . 3 ) • Target maintenance dose to intact PTH levels within the desired therapeutic range and serum calcium within normal limits ( 2 . 3 ) .
• Monitor serum calcium frequently ( e . g . , twice weekly ) and intact PTH levels every 2 to 4 weeks after dose initiation or adjustment ( 2 . 3 ) .
• See Table 2 in the full prescribing information for titration recommendations based upon intact PTH levels ( 2 . 3 ) .
• Suspend or decrease the dose for persistent abnormally low intact PTH or serum calcium consistently above the normal range ( 2 . 3 ) .
2 . 1 Important Administration Information • Ensure serum calcium is not above the upper limit of normal before initiating treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Administer paricalcitol injection intravenously through a hemodialysis vascular access port at any time during dialysis .
Paricalcitol injection may be administered intravenously if an access port is unavailable .
• Inspect paricalcitol injection visually prior to administration ; the solution should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use if the solution is not clear or particles are present .
• Discard unused portion of 2 mcg / mL and 5 mcg / mL single - dose vials .
2 . 2 Starting Dose and Dose Titration in Adults • Initiate paricalcitol injection as an intravenous bolus dose of 0 . 04 mcg / kg to 0 . 1 mcg / kg ( 2 . 8 mcg to 7 mcg ) no more frequently than every other day at any time during dialysis .
• Target the maintenance dose of paricalcitol injection to intact parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels within the desired therapeutic range and serum calcium within normal limits .
• Monitor serum calcium frequently ( e . g . , twice weekly ) and intact PTH levels every 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy or dose adjustment .
• Titrate the dose of paricalcitol injection based on intact PTH ( see Table 1 ) .
Prior to raising the dose , ensure serum calcium is within normal limits .
The maximum daily adult dose is 0 . 24 mcg / kg .
• Suspend or decrease the dose if intact PTH is persistently and abnormally low to reduce the risk of adynamic bone disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or if serum calcium is consistently above the normal range to reduce the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If dose suspension is necessary , restart at a reduced dose after laboratory values have normalized .
Table 1 .
Recommended Paricalcitol Injection Adult Dose Titration Based Upon intact PTH Intact PTH Level At Follow - up Visit Dosage Adjustment Above target and intact PTH increased Increase * by 2 mcg to 4 mcg every 2 to 4 weeks Above target and intact PTH decreased by less than 30 % Increase * by 2 mcg to 4 mcg every 2 to 4 weeks Above target and intact PTH decreased by 30 % to 60 % No Change Above target and intact PTH decreased by more than 60 % Decrease per clinical judgement At target and intact PTH stable No Change * The maximum daily adult dose is 0 . 24 mcg / kg 2 . 3 Starting Dose and Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients 5 Years of Age and Above • Initiate paricalcitol injection as an intravenous bolus dose of : • 0 . 04 mcg / kg if baseline intact PTH is less than 500 pg / mL , or • 0 . 08 mcg / kg if baseline intact PTH is 500 pg / mL or greater • Administer paricalcitol injection three times per week , no more frequently than every other day , at any time during dialysis .
• Target the maintenance dose of paricalcitol injection to intact PTH levels within the desired therapeutic range and serum calcium within normal limits .
• Monitor serum calcium frequently ( e . g . , twice weekly ) and intact PTH levels every 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy or dose adjustment .
• Titrate the dose of paricalcitol injection based on intact PTH ( see Table 2 ) .
Prior to raising the dose , ensure serum calcium is within normal limits .
• Suspend or decrease the dose if intact PTH is persistently and abnormally low to reduce the risk of adynamic bone disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or if serum calcium is consistently above the normal range to reduce the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If dose suspension is necessary , restart at a reduced dose after laboratory values have normalized .
Table 2 .
Recommended Paricalcitol Injection Pediatric Dose Titration Based Upon intact PTH – Patients 5 years of age and older Intact PTH Level At Follow - up Visit Dosage Adjustment Above target and intact PTH decreased by less than 30 % Increase by 0 . 04 mcg / kg every 2 to 4 weeks Intact PTH 150 pg / mL or greater and decreased by 30 % to 60 % No Change Intact PTH less than 150 pg / mL or decreased by more than 60 % Decrease by 0 . 04 mcg / kg weekly , or by 50 % if decreased dose equals zero 2 . 4 Drug Interactions that May Require Dosage Adjustments of Paricalcitol Injection • Increased monitoring of serum calcium and dose adjustment of paricalcitol injection may be necessary when given concomitantly with drugs that may increase the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Increased monitoring of both serum calcium and intact PTH as well as dose adjustment of paricalcitol injection may be necessary when given concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : sterile , clear , colorless , aqueous solution available as follows : • 2 mcg / mL single - dose vial • 5 mcg / mL single - dose vial • 10 mcg / 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) single - dose vial • 10 mcg / 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) multiple - dose vial Paricalcitol injection is available as ( 3 ) : • Injection : 2 mcg / mL single - dose vial • Injection : 5 mcg / mL single - dose vial • Injection : 10 mcg / 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) single - dose vial • Injection : 10 mcg / 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) multiple - dose vial 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paricalcitol is contraindicated in patients with : • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vitamin D toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to paricalcitol or any of the inactive ingredients in paricalcitol .
Hypersensitivity adverse reactions have been reported [ e . g . , angioedema ( including laryngeal edema ) and urticaria ] [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypercalcemia ( 4 ) • Vitamin D toxicity ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to paricalcitol or any inactive ingredient ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercalcemia : Can occur during treatment with paricalcitol and can lead to cardiac arrhythmias and seizures .
Severe hypercalcemia may require emergency attention .
The risk may be increased when paricalcitol is used concomitantly with high dose calcium preparations , thiazide diuretics , or vitamin D compounds .
Inform patients about symptoms of hypercalcemia and monitor serum calcium prior to initiation and during treatment and adjust dose accordingly ( 2 , 5 . 1 ) .
• Digitalis toxicity : Risk increases with hypercalcemia .
In patients using digitalis compounds , monitor both serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity .
Monitor more frequently when initiating or adjusting the dose of paricalcitol ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Adynamic Bone Disease : May develop and increase risk of fractures if intact PTH levels are suppressed to abnormally low levels .
Monitor intact PTH levels and adjust dose if needed ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemia may occur during paricalcitol treatment .
Acute hypercalcemia may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and seizures and may potentiate the effect of digitalis on the heart [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
Severe hypercalcemia may require emergency attention .
Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration of high doses of calcium - containing preparations , thiazide diuretics , or other vitamin D compounds [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
In addition , high intake of calcium and phosphate concomitantly with vitamin D compounds may lead to hypercalciuria and hyperphosphatemia .
Patients with a history of hypercalcemia prior to initiating therapy may be at increased risk for development of hypercalcemia with paricalcitol .
In these circumstances , frequent serum calcium monitoring and paricalcitol dose adjustments may be required .
When initiating paricalcitol or adjusting paricalcitol dose , measure serum calcium frequently ( e . g . , twice weekly ) .
Once a maintenance dose has been established , measure serum calcium at least monthly .
If hypercalcemia occurs , reduce the dose or discontinue paricalcitol until serum calcium is normal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients about the symptoms of elevated calcium ( feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss ) and instruct them to report new or worsening symptoms when they occur .
5 . 2 Digitalis Toxicity Paricalcitol can cause hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] which increases the risk of digitalis toxicity .
In patients using paricalcitol concomitantly with digitalis compounds , monitor serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity .
Increase the frequency of monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of paricalcitol [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 3 Adynamic Bone Disease Adynamic bone disease with subsequent increased risk of fractures may develop if intact PTH levels are suppressed by paricalcitol to abnormally low levels .
Monitor intact PTH levels to avoid over suppression and adjust paricalcitol dose , if needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Adynamic Bone Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % and more frequent than placebo ) are nausea , vomiting and edema ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AuroMedics Pharma LLC at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Four placebo - controlled , double - blind , multicenter studies were conducted in 113 patients ( 51 % male , 10 % Caucasian , 81 % African - American and 9 % Hispanic , ranging in age from 18 to 90 years ) .
Sixty - two patients were exposed to paricalcitol and the average dose at the end of treatment was 0 . 12 mcg / kg / dose with a mean number of 55 days of dosing across the studies .
Discontinuation of therapy due to any adverse reaction occurred in 6 . 5 % of patients treated with paricalcitol and 2 . 0 % of patients treated with placebo .
Adverse reactions occurring with greater frequency in the paricalcitol group and at a frequency of 2 % or greater are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring at a Rate of 2 % or Greater in Patients with CKD on Dialysis in Four Placebo - Controlled Studies Adverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 51 ) % Paricalcitol ( n = 62 ) % Nausea 8 13 Vomiting 6 8 Edema 0 7 Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage 2 5 Chills 2 5 Pyrexia 2 5 Pneumonia 0 5 Sepsis 2 5 Influenza 4 5 Arthralgia 4 5 Palpitations 0 3 Dry Mouth 2 3 Malaise 0 3 Other Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 2 % of the paricalcitol treated patients in the above mentioned studies and in additional double - blind , active - controlled and open - label studies : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Anemia , lymphadenopathy Cardiac Disorders : Arrhythmia , atrial flutter , irregular heart rate , cardiac arrest , chest discomfort , chest pain , edema peripheral Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Ear discomfort Endocrine Disorders : Hypoparathyroidism Eye Disorders : Conjunctivitis , glaucoma , ocular hyperemia Gastrointestinal Disorders : Abdominal discomfort , constipation , diarrhea , dysphagia , gastritis , intestinal ischemia , rectal hemorrhage General Disorders : Asthenia , condition aggravated , fatigue , feeling abnormal , pain , swelling Infections : Nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , vaginal infection Injection site reactions : Injection site extravasation , injection site pain Laboratory abnormalities : Hypercalcemia , hyperkalemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , increased aspartate aminotransferase , prolonged bleeding time Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Decreased appetite , thirst , decreased weight Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Joint stiffness , muscle twitching , myalgia Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified : Breast cancer Nervous System Disorders : Cerebrovascular accident , dizziness , dysgeusia , headache , hypoesthesia , myoclonus , paresthesia , syncope , unresponsive to stimuli , gait disturbance Psychiatric Disorders : Agitation , confusional state , delirium , insomnia , nervousness , restlessness Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Breast pain , erectile dysfunction Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Cough , dyspnea , orthopnea , pulmonary edema , wheezing Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Alopecia , blister , hirsutism , night sweats , rash pruritic , pruritus , skin burning sensation Vascular Disorders : Hypertension , hypotension 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of paricalcitol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Allergic reactions , such as rash , urticaria , and angioedema ( including laryngeal edema ) have been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with paricalcitol .
Table 4 .
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paricalcitol Drugs that May Increase the risk of Hypercalcemia Clinical Impact Concomitant administration of high doses of calcium - containing preparations or other vitamin D compounds may increase the risk of hypercalcemia .
Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing excretion of calcium in the urine .
Examples Calcium - containing products , other vitamin D compounds or thiazide diuretics Intervention Monitor calcium more frequently and adjust paricalcitol dose as needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Digitalis Compounds Clinical Impact Paricalcitol can cause hypercalcemia which can potentiate the risk of digitalis toxicity .
Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity and increase frequency of serum calcium monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of paricalcitol in patients receiving digitalis compounds [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Paricalcitol is partially metabolized by CYP3A .
Exposure of paricalcitol will increase upon coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Examples Boceprevir , clarithromycin , conivaptan , grapefruit juice , indinavir , itraconazole , ketoconazole , lopinavir / ritonavir , mibefradil , nefazodone , nelfinavir , posaconazole , ritonavir , saquinavir , telithromycin , and voriconazole Intervention If a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , dose adjustment of paricalcitol may be necessary .
Monitor intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations closely .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Co - administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) increases paricalcitol exposure .
Dose adjustment may be necessary .
Closely monitor intact PTH and serum calcium ( 2 . 4 , 7 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited data with paricalcitol in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with chronic kidney disease in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , slightly increased embryofetal loss was observed in pregnant rats and rabbits administered paricalcitol intravenously during the period of organogenesis at doses 2 and 0 . 5 times , respectively , a human dose of 14 mcg ( equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg ) , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Adverse reproductive outcomes were observed at doses that caused maternal toxicity ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Chronic kidney disease in pregnancy increases the risk for maternal hypertension and preeclampsia , miscarriage , preterm delivery , polyhydramnios , still birth , and low birth weight infants .
Data Animal Data Pregnant rats and rabbits were treated with paricalcitol by once - daily intravenous injection during the period of organogenesis ( in rats , from gestation day ( GD ) 6 to 17 ; in rabbits , from GD 6 to 18 ) .
Rats were dosed at 0 , 0 . 3 , 1 or 3 mcg / kg / day and rabbits at 0 , 0 . 03 , 0 . 1 or 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day , representing up to 2 or 0 . 5 times , respectively , a human dose of 0 . 24 mcg / kg , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Slightly decreased fetal viability was observed in both studies at the highest doses representing 2 and 0 . 5 times , respectively , a human dose of 0 . 24 mcg / kg , in the presence of maternal toxicity ( decreased body weight and food consumption ) .
Pregnant rats were administered paricalcitol by intravenous injection three times per week at doses of 0 , 0 . 3 , 3 or 20 mcg / kg / day throughout gestation , parturition and lactation ( GD 6 to lactation day ( LD ) 20 ) representing exposures up to 13 times a human dose of 0 . 24 mcg / kg .
A small increase in stillbirths and pup deaths from parturition to LD 4 were observed at the high dose when compared to the control group ( 9 . 2 % versus 3 . 3 % in controls ) at 13 times a human dose of 0 . 24 mcg / kg , which occurred at a maternally toxic dose known to cause hypercalcemia in rats .
Surviving pups were not adversely affected ; body weight gains , developmental landmarks , reflex ontogeny , learning indices , and locomotor activity were all within normal parameters .
F1 reproductive capacity was unaffected .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of paricalcitol in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Studies in rats have shown that paricalcitol and / or its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk ( see Data ) .
Infants exposed to paricalcitol through breast milk should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for paricalcitol and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from paricalcitol or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Infants exposed to paricalcitol through breast milk should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia , including seizures , vomiting , constipation and weight loss .
Monitoring of serum calcium in the infant should be considered .
Data Following a single oral administration of 20 mcg / kg of radioactive [ 3 H ] paricalcitol to lactating rats , the concentrations of total radioactivity was determined .
Lower levels of total radioactivity were present in the milk compared to that in the plasma of the dams indicating that low levels of [ 3 H ] paricalcitol and / or its metabolites are secreted into milk .
Exposure of the pups to [ 3 H ] paricalcitol through milk was confirmed by the presence of radioactive material in the pups ’ stomachs .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of paricalcitol for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with CKD have been established in pediatric patients 5 years of age and older with CKD on dialysis .
Use of paricalcitol in pediatric patients 5 years of age and older is supported by evidence from an adequate and well - controlled study in 29 patients , 5 to 19 years of age , with CKD on hemodialysis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of paricalcitol have not been established in pediatric patients less than 5 years old .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of paricalcitol did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol were studied in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment and were similar to that of patients with normal hepatic function .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic function .
Paricalcitol has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of paricalcitol may lead to hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hyperphosphatemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The treatment of acute overdosage should consist of supportive measures and discontinuation of drug administration .
Serum calcium levels should be measured until normal .
Paricalcitol is not significantly removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Paricalcitol USP , is a synthetically manufactured active vitamin D analog .
It is a white to almost white powder chemically designated as 19 - nor - 1α , 3β , 25 - trihydroxy - 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 ( Z ) , 7 ( E ) , 22 ( E ) - triene and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula is C27H44O3 .
Molecular weight is 416 . 64 .
Paricalcitol injection , USP is a sterile , clear , colorless , aqueous solution for intravenous use .
Each mL contains paricalcitol , 2 mcg or 5 mcg and the following inactive ingredients : alcohol , 20 % ( v / v ) and propylene glycol , 30 % ( v / v ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Paricalcitol is a synthetic , biologically active vitamin D2 analog .
Preclinical and in vitro studies have demonstrated that paricalcitol ’ s biological actions are mediated through binding of the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , which results in the selective activation of vitamin D responsive pathways .
Vitamin D and paricalcitol have been shown to reduce PTH levels by inhibiting PTH synthesis and secretion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Within two hours after administering paricalcitol intravenous doses ranging from 0 . 04 to 0 . 24 mcg / kg , concentrations of paricalcitol decreased rapidly ; thereafter , concentrations of paricalcitol declined log - linearly .
No accumulation of paricalcitol was observed with three times a week dosing .
Distribution Paricalcitol is extensively bound to plasma proteins ( ≥ 99 . 8 % ) .
In healthy subjects , the steady state volume of distribution is approximately 23 . 8 L .
The mean volume of distribution following a 0 . 24 mcg / kg dose of paricalcitol in CKD Stage 5 subjects requiring hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is between 31 and 35 L . Elimination Metabolism After intravenous administration of a 0 . 48 mcg / kg dose of 3 H - paricalcitol , parent drug was extensively metabolized , with only about 2 % of the dose eliminated unchanged in the feces and no parent drug found in the urine .
Several metabolites were detected in both the urine and feces .
Most of the systemic exposure was from the parent drug .
Two minor metabolites , relative to paricalcitol , were detected in human plasma .
One metabolite was identified as 24 ( R ) - hydroxy paricalcitol , while the other metabolite was unidentified .
The 24 ( R ) - hydroxy paricalcitol is less active than paricalcitol in an in vivo rat model of PTH suppression .
In vitro data suggest that paricalcitol is metabolized by multiple hepatic and non - hepatic enzymes , including mitochondrial CYP24 , as well as CYP3A4 and UGT1A4 .
The identified metabolites include the product of 24 ( R ) - hydroxylation ( present at low levels in plasma ) , as well as 24 , 26 - and 24 , 28 - dihydroxylation and direct glucuronidation .
Excretion Paricalcitol is excreted primarily by hepatobiliary excretion .
Approximately 63 % of the radioactivity was eliminated in the feces and 19 % was recovered in the urine in healthy subjects .
In healthy subjects , the mean elimination half - life of paricalcitol is about five to seven hours over the studied dose range of 0 . 04 to 0 . 16 mcg / kg .
The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has been studied in CKD patients requiring hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) .
The mean elimination half - life of paricalcitol after administration of 0 . 24 mcg / kg paricalcitol IV bolus dose in CKD HD and PD patients is 13 . 9 and 15 . 4 hours , respectively ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 .
Mean ± SD Paricalcitol Pharmacokinetic Parameters in CKD Patients on Dialysis Following Single 0 . 24 mcg / kg Intravenous Bolus Dose CKD - HD ( n = 14 ) CKD - PD ( n = 8 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 1 . 680 ± 0 . 511 1 . 832 ± 0 . 315 AUC0 - ∞ ( ng · h / mL ) 14 . 51 ± 4 . 12 16 . 01 ± 5 . 98 β ( 1 / h ) 0 . 050 ± 0 . 023 0 . 045 ± 0 . 026 t1 / 2 ( h ) * 13 . 9 ± 7 . 3 15 . 4 ± 10 . 5 CL ( L / h ) 1 . 49 ± 0 . 60 1 . 54 ± 0 . 95 Vdβ ( L ) 30 . 8 ± 7 . 5 34 . 9 ± 9 . 5 * harmonic mean ± pseudo standard deviation , HD : hemodialysis , PD : peritoneal dialysis .
The degree of accumulation was consistent with the half - life and dosing frequency .
Specific Populations The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been investigated in geriatric and pediatric patients .
Male and Female Patients The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol were gender independent .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The disposition of paricalcitol ( 0 . 24 mcg / kg ) was compared in patients with mild ( n = 5 ) and moderate ( n = 5 ) hepatic impairment ( as indicated by the Child - Pugh method ) and subjects with normal hepatic function ( n = 10 ) .
The pharmacokinetics of unbound paricalcitol were similar across the range of hepatic function evaluated in this study .
The influence of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been evaluated .
Patients with Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol have been studied in CKD patients requiring hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) .
Hemodialysis procedure has essentially no effect on paricalcitol elimination .
However , compared to healthy subjects , CKD patients on dialysis showed a decreased CL and increased half - life .
Drug Interaction Studies An in vitro study indicates that paricalcitol is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , or CYP3A at concentrations up to 50 nM ( 21 ng / mL ) ( approximately 20 - fold greater than that obtained after highest tested dose ) .
In fresh primary cultured hepatocytes , the induction observed at paricalcitol concentrations up to 50 nM was less than two - fold for CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 or CYP3A , where the positive controls rendered a six - to nineteen - fold induction .
Hence , paricalcitol is not expected to inhibit or induce the clearance of drugs metabolized by these enzymes .
Drug interactions with paricalcitol injection have not been studied .
The following studies have been performed with oral paricalcitol capsules .
Omeprazole The pharmacokinetic interaction between paricalcitol capsule ( 16 mcg ) and omeprazole ( 40 mg ; oral ) , a strong inhibitor of CYP2C19 , was investigated in a single dose , crossover study in healthy subjects .
The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol were unaffected when omeprazole was administrated approximately 2 hours prior to the paricalcitol dose .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Ketoconazole The effect of multiple doses of ketoconazole , a strong inhibitor of CYP3A administered as 200 mg BID for 5 days , on the pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol capsule has been studied in healthy subjects .
The Cmax of paricalcitol was minimally affected , but AUC0 - ∞ approximately doubled in the presence of ketoconazole .
The mean half - life of paricalcitol was 17 . 0 hours in the presence of ketoconazole as compared to 9 . 8 hours , when paricalcitol was administered alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , an increased incidence of uterine leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma was observed at subcutaneous doses of 1 , 3 , 10 mcg / kg administered 3 times per week ( 2 to 15 times the AUC at a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on AUC ) .
The incidence rate of uterine leiomyoma was significantly different than the control group at the highest dose of 10 mcg / kg .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in rats , there was an increased incidence of benign adrenal pheochromocytoma at subcutaneous doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 mcg / kg administered 3 times per week ( at less than clinical exposure to 7 times the exposure following a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on AUC ) .
The increased incidence of pheochromocytomas in rats may be related to the alteration of calcium homeostasis by paricalcitol .
Paricalcitol did not exhibit genetic toxicity in vitro with or without metabolic activation in the microbial mutagenesis assay ( Ames Assay ) , mouse lymphoma mutagenesis assay ( L5178Y ) , or a human lymphocyte cell chromosomal aberration assay .
There was also no evidence of genetic toxicity in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Paricalcitol had no effect on fertility ( male or female ) in rats at intravenous doses up to 20 mcg / kg / dose ( 13 times a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on surface area , mg / m2 ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Adult Studies in CKD on Dialysis Three 12 - week , placebo - controlled studies were conducted in 78 patients with CKD on hemodialysis .
In these studies , patients ranged in age from 22 to 90 years , 51 % were males , 13 % were Caucasian , 79 % were African - American , and 8 % were Hispanic .
The most common causes of renal failure were hypertension and diabetes .
The dose of paricalcitol was started at 0 . 04 mcg / kg 3 times per week intravenously .
The dose was increased by 0 . 04 mcg / kg every 2 weeks until intact PTH levels were decreased at least 30 % from baseline or a fifth escalation brought the dose to 0 . 24 mcg / kg , or intact PTH fell to less than 100 pg / mL , or the Ca × P product was greater than 75 within any 2 week period , or serum calcium became greater than 11 . 5 mg / dL at any time .
Patients treated with paricalcitol achieved a mean intact PTH reduction of 30 % within 6 weeks .
The results from these studies are as follows : Table 6 .
Mean Changes from Baseline to Final Evaluation in intact PTH , Alkaline Phosphatase , Phosphorus and Calcium × Phosphorus Product in Adult Patients with CKD on Dialysis in Three 12 - Week Placebo - Controlled Studies Group ( No .
of Pts . )
Baseline Mean ( Range ) Mean ( SE ) Change From Baseline to Final Evaluation intact PTH ( pg / mL ) Paricalcitol ( n = 40 ) 783 ( 291 to 2076 ) - 379 ( 43 . 7 ) placebo ( n = 38 ) 745 ( 320 to 1671 ) - 69 . 6 ( 44 . 8 ) Alkaline Phosphatase ( U / L ) Paricalcitol ( n = 31 ) 150 ( 40 to 600 ) - 41 . 5 ( 10 . 6 ) placebo ( n = 34 ) 169 ( 56 to 911 ) + 2 . 6 ( 10 . 1 ) Phosphorus ( mg / dL ) Paricalcitol ( n = 40 ) 5 . 8 ( 3 . 7 to 10 . 2 ) + 0 . 47 ( 0 . 3 ) placebo ( n = 38 ) 6 . 0 ( 2 . 8 to 8 . 8 ) - 0 . 47 ( 0 . 3 ) Calcium × Phosphorus Product Paricalcitol ( n = 40 ) 54 ( 32 to 106 ) + 7 . 9 ( 2 . 2 ) placebo ( n = 38 ) 54 ( 26 to 77 ) - 3 . 9 ( 2 . 3 ) Pediatric Study in CKD on Dialysis Paricalcitol was evaluated in a 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of 29 pediatric patients , aged 5 to 19 years , with CKD on hemodialysis ; nearly all had received some form of vitamin D prior to the study .
Of the 29 patients , 76 % were male , 52 % were Caucasian and 45 % were African - American .
The initial dose of paricalcitol was 0 . 04 mcg / kg 3 times per week , based on baseline intact PTH level of less than 500 pg / mL , or 0 . 08 mcg / kg 3 times per week , based on baseline intact PTH level of 500 pg / mL or greater .
The dose of paricalcitol was adjusted in 0 . 04 mcg / kg increments based on the levels of serum intact PTH , calcium and Ca × P .
The mean baseline levels of intact PTH were 841 pg / mL for the 15 paricalcitol - treated patients and 740 pg / mL for the 14 placebo - treated patients .
The mean dose of paricalcitol administered was 4 . 6 mcg ( range : 0 . 8 mcg to 9 . 6 mcg ) .
Sixty - seven percent of the paricalcitol - treated patients and 14 % of the placebo - treated patients completed the trial .
Seventy - one percent of the placebo - treated patients discontinued due to excessive elevations in intact PTH levels , as defined by 2 consecutive intact PTH levels greater than 700 pg / mL and greater than baseline after 4 weeks of treatment .
The primary efficacy analysis demonstrated that 60 % of paricalcitol - treated patients and 21 % of placebo - treated patients achieved two consecutive greater than or equal to 30 % reductions from baseline in intact PTH .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Paricalcitol injection , USP is a sterile , clear , colorless , aqueous solution free from visible particles and is supplied as follows : 2 mcg per mL 1 mL Single - Dose Vials in a Carton of 25 NDC 55150 - 212 - 01 5 mcg per mL 1 mL Single - Dose Vials in a Carton of 25 NDC 55150 - 213 - 01 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) 2 mL Single - Dose Vials in a Carton of 25 NDC 55150 - 214 - 02 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) 2 mL Multiple - Dose Vials in a Carton of 25 NDC 55150 - 215 - 02 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Discard any unused portion of the single - dose vial after use .
The contents of the multiple - dose vial remain stable up to seven days after initial use when stored at controlled room temperature .
The vial stoppers are not made with natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypercalcemia Advise patients to contact a health care provider if they develop symptoms of elevated calcium ( e . g . feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Monitoring Inform patients that they will need routine monitoring of laboratory parameters such as calcium and intact PTH while receiving paricalcitol .
Inform patients that more frequent monitoring is necessary during the initiation of therapy , following dose changes or when potentially interacting medications are started or discontinued [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to inform their physician of all medications , including prescription and nonprescription drugs , and supplements they are taking .
Advise patients to also inform their physician that they are receiving paricalcitol if a new medication is prescribed [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Distributed by : AuroMedics Pharma LLC 279 Princeton - Hightstown Rd .
E . Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Eugia Pharma Specialities Limited Hyderabad - 500032 India PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mcg per mL Container Label Rx onlyNDC 55150 - 212 - 01 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 2 mcg per mL For Intravenous Use 1 mL Single Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mcg per mL Container - Carton ( 25 Vials ) Rx only NDC 55150 - 212 - 01 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 2 mcg per mL For Intravenous Use Sterile 25 x 1 mL Single Dose Vials AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mcg per mL Container Label Rx only NDC 55150 - 213 - 01 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 5 mcg per mL For Intravenous Use 1 mL Single Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mcg per mL Container - Carton ( 25 Vials ) Rx only NDC 55150 - 213 - 01 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 5 mcg per mL For Intravenous Use Sterile 25 x 1 mL Single Dose Vials AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) [ Single Dose Vial ] - Container Label Rx only NDC 55150 - 214 - 02 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) For Intravenous Use 2 mL Single Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) [ Single Dose Vial ] - Container - Carton ( 25 Vials ) Rx only NDC 55150 - 214 - 02 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Sterile 25 x 2 mL Single Dose Vials AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) [ Multi Dose Vial ] - Container Label Rx only NDC 55150 - 215 - 02 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) For Intravenous Use 2 mL Multiple - Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) [ Multi Dose Vial ] - Container - Carton ( 25 Vials ) Rx only NDC 55150 - 215 - 02 Paricalcitol Injection , USP 10 mcg per 2 mL ( 5 mcg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Sterile 25 x 2 mL Multiple - Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
