[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( s ) Fexofenadine HCl USP , 30 mg Fexofenadine HCl USP , 60 mg Fexofenadine HCl USP , 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Use ( s ) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if printed foil inner seal on bottle is torn or missing • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture • this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 4 Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Red no . 40 , hypromellose , iron oxide black , magnesium stearate , mannitol , polyethylene glycol , powder cellulose and titanium dioxide Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION Bottle label : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fexofenadine HCl Tablets , 30 mg Carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fexofenadine HCl Tablets USP , 60 mg Carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fexofenadine HCl Tablets USP , 180 mg Carton Label : [ MULTIMEDIA ]
