Drug Facts Active ingredient Adapalene USP 0 . 1 % ( retinoid ) * * read consumer information leaflet Purpose Acne treatment Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged skin ( cuts , abrasions eczema , sunburn ) • if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use When using this product • limit sun exposure , including light from tanning beds , and use sunscreen when going outdoors • do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied • during the early weeks of use , your acne may appear to worsen before it improves ( this is normal ) ; continue using as directed , unless you get irritation that become severe • irritation ( redness , itching , dryness , burning ) is more likely to occur : • in the first few weeks of use • if using more than one topical acne medication at a time • but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product • it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see result • avoid product contact eyes , lips , and month .
If contact occurs immediately flush the area with water .
• wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • you become pregnant , or planning to become pregnant while using this product • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as itching , rash , hives , swelling of the lips , eyelids , and shortness of breath ) • irritation become severe • you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • use once daily • clean the skin gently and pat dry before applying the product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer .
For example , if your acne in on the face , apply the product to the entire face .
• do not use more than one time a day .
Applying more than directed will not provide faster or better results , but may worsen skin irritation .
• Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 68º to 77ºF • protect from freezing Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide Questions ?
Call 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 * Read carton and enclosed consumer information leaflet before using this product .
Keep this carton and consumer information leaflet . The contain important information .
Distributed by : Little Pharma , Inc .
New York , NY 10023 | Made in India curist Acne Relief Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % Acne Teatment Once Daily Topical Retinoid * Fragrance Free Oil Free NET WT 1 . 6 oz ( 45 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
