DESCRIPTION : Each capsule contains : Ferrous Fumarate ( anhydrous ) ...... 191 . 1 mg Polysaccharide Iron Complex ... 135 . 9 mg ( Equivalent to about 125 mg of elemental iron ) Vitamin C ( from ProAscorb C ‡ ) .... 210 mg Folic Acid ..... 1 mg Thiamine Mononitrate ( B1 ) ... 5 mg Riboflavin ( B2 ) .... 5 mg Niacin ( B3 ) .
20 mg d - Calcium Pantothenate ( B5 ) ..
7 mg Pyridoxine HCl ( B6 ) ... 25 mg Biotin ( B7 ) ...... 300 mcg Cyanocobalamin ( B12 ) ..
10 mcg CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Integra PlusTM is unique in that it utilizes two ( 2 ) different forms of iron , i . e . , Ferrous Fumarate and Polysaccharide Iron Complex ( as cell - contracted akagane ̀ ite ) , making available a total of 125 mg of elemental iron per capsule as follows : Ferrous Fumarate ( anhydrous ) 191 . 1 mg Polysaccharide iron complex ( PIC ) 135 . 9 mg Subclinical B - Group vitamin deficiencies have greatly increased in recent years , due to changes in dietetic habits , increase in the use of sugar , and the excessive milling of flour and cereals .
With thiamine deficiencies in a healthy populous , it is self - evident that the unwell person is particularly prone to thiamine avitaminosis .
This is true of the anemic individual with his / her poor appetite and disturbed digestive functions .
Folic acid is best known for its role in megaloblastic anemias .
Zinc has been recognized in the nutrition of animals and humans , even though the evidence for an uncomplicated zinc deficiency in humans is limited .
Ferrous Fumarate : Provides about 62 . 5 mg of elemental iron per dose .
Ferrous Fumarate is an anhydrous salt of a combination of ferrous iron and fumaric acid , containing 33 % of iron per weight .
The acute toxicity in experimental animals is low and Ferrous Fumarate is well tolerated clinically .
As a ferrous salt , it is more efficiently absorbed in the duodenum .
Ferrous Fumarate contrasts very favorably with the availability of the 20 % of elemental iron of ferrous sulfate , and the 13 % of elemental iron of ferrous gluconate .
Polysaccharide Iron Complex : Provides about 62 . 5 mg elemental iron , as a cell - contracted akagane ̀ ite .
It is a product of ferric iron complexed to a low molecular weight polysaccharide .
This polysaccharide is produced by the extensive hydrolysis of starch and is a dark brown powder that dissolves in water to form a very dark brown solution , which is virtually odorless and tasteless .
Folic Acid : Folic Acid is one of the important hematopoetic agents necessary for proper regeneration of the blood - forming elements and their function .
Folic acid is a precursor of a large family of compounds which serve as coenzymes in carbon transfer reactions .
These reactions are required for the synthesis of purine and pyrimidine bases , inter - conversion of glycine and serine , biosynthesis of methionine methyl groups and degradation of histidine .
Additionally , folic acid increases jejunal glycolytic enzymes and is involved in the desaturation and hydroxylation of long - chain fatty acids in the brain .
A deficiency in folic acid results in megaloblastic anemia .
All IntegraTM products include a unique patented source of iron , e . g . Ferrous Fumarate and Polysaccharide Iron Complex ( U . S . Patent No : 11 / 243 , 043 Pending ) .
" An increase in tolerability is observed with the ( patented formulation ) and is believed to occur as the result of distributing the total iron content in the composition among compounds that provide iron to the patient ' s blood stream via two different mechanisms .
The ferrous salts are readily absorbed in the upper gut , by direct dissolution and absorption of the ferrous iron by the bloodstream .
However , the iron available from PIC is absorbed in the lower gut , via an active protein transport mechanism " .
Clinical Studies : Because Ferrous Fumarate is an organic complex , it contains no free ions , either ferric or ferrous .
Polysaccharide Iron Complex is clinically non - toxic .
Prior studies in rats demonstrated that Polysaccharide Iron Complex ( PIC ) , administered as a single oral dose to Sprague Dawley rats did not produce evidence of toxicity at a dosage level of 5000 mg Iron / kg : ( An Acute Oral Toxicity Study in Rats with Polysaccharide - Iron Complex .
T . N . Merriman , M . Aikman and R . E . Rush , Springborn Laboratories .
Inc .
Spencerville , Ohio Study No . 3340 . 1 March - April 1994 ) .
Other clinical studies had demonstrated that Polysaccharide Iron gives a good hematopoietic response with an almost complete absence of the side effects usually associated with oral iron therapy .
Picinni and Ricciotti suggested in 1982 , that " the therapeutic effectiveness of Polysaccharide Iron Complex when compared with iron fumarate in the treatment of iron deficiency anemia , appears to be as active as the iron fumarate and as well tolerated , however , it exerted a greater influence on the level of hemoglobin and on the number of red cells ... " and that , " it has been exceptionally well tolerated by all patients " ( Picinni , L . - Ricciotti , M . 1982 .
Therapeutic effectiveness of an iron - polysaccharide complex in comparison with iron fumarate in the treatment of iron deficiency anemias ) : PANMINERVA MEDICA - EUROPA MEDICA , Vol .
24 , No . 3 , pp . 213 - 220 ( July - September 1982 ) .
As mentioned above , the patented source of iron used in Integra PlusTM ( Ferrous Fumarate and Polysaccharide Iron Complex ) provides a high level of elemental iron with a low incidence of gastric distress .
CONCLUSION : Based on the results of this study , the oral combination of Ferrous Fumarate and Polysaccharide Iron Complex was better tolerated and safer than the oral administration of Ferrous Fumarate alone .
The conclusion of this research stated , that the addition of PIC to Ferrous Fumarate surprisingly allows the same concentration of Ferrous Fumarate to be better tolerated than the Ferrous Fumarate alone .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Integra PlusTM is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients ; also , all iron compounds are contraindicated in patients with hemosiderosis , hemochromatosis , or hemolytic anemias .
Pernicious anemia is a contraindication , as folic acid may obscure its signs and symptoms .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
WARNING : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg - 0 . 4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of this product have not been established in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : No clinical studies have been performed in patients age 65 and over to determine whether older persons respond differently from younger persons .
Dosage should always begin at the low end of the dosage scale and should consider that elderly persons may have decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and or concomitant diseases .
Adverse Reactions : Folic Acid : Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Ferrous Fumarate : Gastrointestinal disturbances ( anorexia , nausea , diarrhea , constipation ) occur occasionally , but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy .
Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals , giving Integra PlusTM after meals may control occasional G . I . disturbances .
Integra PlusTM is best absorbed when taken at bedtime .
OVERDOSE : Iron : Signs and Symptoms : Iron is toxic .
Acute overdosage of iron may cause nausea and vomiting and , in severe cases , cardiovascular collapse and death .
Other symptoms include pallor and cyanosis , melena , shock , drowsiness and coma .
The estimated overdose of orally ingested iron is 300 - mg / kg body weight .
When overdoses are ingested by children , severe reactions , including fatalities , have resulted .
Integra PlusTM should be stored beyond the reach of children to prevent against accidental iron poisoning .
Keep this and all other drugs out of the reach of children .
Treatment : For specific therapy , exchange transfusion and chelating agents should be used .
For general management , perform gastric lavage with sodium bicarbonate solution or milk .
Administer intravenous fluids and electrolytes and use oxygen .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults ( persons over 12 years of age ) , One ( 1 ) capsule daily , between meals , or as prescribed by a physician .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Do not administer to children under the age of 12 .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of this product have not been established in pediatric patients .
Enter section text here HOW SUPPLIED : Integra PlusTM are Vcaps ® capsules with maroon caps printed in white with " Integra Plus " and cream body printed in red with " US " logo .
Packed in child resistant caps and light resistant bottles of 90 capsules ( 52747 - 0712 - 60 ) and 30 capsules ( 52747 - 0712 - 30 ) .
The listed product numbers are not National Drug Codes .
Instead , US Pharmaceutical Corporation has assigned these product codes formatted according to standard industry practice to meet the formatting requirements of pharmacy and healthcare insurance computer systems .
CAUTION : Rx only .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
