WARNINGS Hepatic Injury There have been postmarketing reports of hospitalization and rarely death due to liver failure in patients taking flutamide .
Evidence of hepatic injury included elevated serum transaminase levels , jaundice , hepatic encephalopathy and death related to acute hepatic failure .
The hepatic injury was reversible after discontinuation of therapy in some patients .
Approximately half of the reported cases occurred within the initial 3 months of treatment with flutamide .
Serum transaminase levels should be measured prior to starting treatment with flutamide .
Flutamide is not recommended in patients whose ALT values exceed twice the upper limit of normal .
Serum transaminase levels should then be measured monthly for the first 4 months of therapy , and periodically thereafter .
Liver function tests also should be obtained at the first signs and symptoms suggestive of liver dysfunction , e . g . , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , fatigue , anorexia , “ flu - like ” symptoms , hyperbilirubinuria , jaundice or right upper quadrant tenderness .
If at any time , a patient has jaundice , or their ALT rises above 2 times the upper limit of normal , flutamide should be immediately discontinued with close follow - up of liver function tests until resolution .
DESCRIPTION Flutamide capsules contain flutamide , an acetanilid , nonsteroidal , orally active antiandrogen having the chemical name , α , α , α - trifluoro - 2 - methyl - 4 ' - nitrom - propionotoluidide .
Each capsule contains 125 mg flutamide .
The compound is a buff to yellow powder with a molecular weight of 276 . 22 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 11 H 11 F 3 N 2 O 3 In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
Gelatin capsule shells may contain gelatin , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , FDA / E172 Red Iron Oxide , FDA / E172 Yellow Iron Oxide , and black ink containing pharmaceutical glaze ( modified ) in SD - 45 , synthetic black iron oxide , N - butyl alcohol , SDA - 3 A alcohol , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , and D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY General In animal studies , flutamide demonstrates potent antiandrogenic effects .
It exerts its antiandrogenic action by inhibiting androgen uptake and / or by inhibiting nuclear binding of androgen in target tissues or both .
Prostatic carcinoma is known to be androgen - sensitive and responds to treatment that counteracts the effect of androgen and / or removes the source of androgen , e . g . , castration .
Elevations of plasma testosterone and estradiol levels have been noted following flutamide administration .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Analysis of plasma , urine , and feces following a single oral 200 mg dose of tritium - labeled flutamide to human volunteers showed that the drug is rapidly and completely absorbed .
Following a single 250 mg oral dose to normal adult volunteers , the biologically active alpha - hydroxylated metabolite reaches maximum plasma concentrations in about 2 hours , indicating that it is rapidly formed from flutamide .
Food has no effect on the bioavailability of flutamide .
Distribution In male rats administered an oral 5 mg / kg dose of 14 C - flutamide neither flutamide nor any of its metabolites is preferentially accumulated in any tissue except the prostate .
Total drug levels were highest 6 hours after drug administration in all tissues .
Levels declined at roughly similar rates to low levels at 18 hours .
The major metabolite was present at higher concentrations than flutamide in all tissues studied .
Following a single 250 mg oral dose to normal adult volunteers , low plasma concentrations of flutamide were detected .
The plasma half - life for the alpha - hydroxylated metabolite of flutamide is approximately 6 hours .
Flutamide , in vivo , at steady - state plasma concentrations of 24 to 78 ng / mL , is 94 % to 96 % bound to plasma proteins .
The active metabolite of flutamide , in vivo , at steady - state plasma concentrations of 1556 to 2284 ng / mL , is 92 % to 94 % bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism The composition of plasma radioactivity , following a single 200 mg oral dose of tritium - labeled flutamide to normal adult volunteers , showed that flutamide is rapidly and extensively metabolized , with flutamide comprising only 2 . 5 % of plasma radioactivity 1 hour after administration .
At least six metabolites have been identified in plasma .
The major plasma metabolite is a biologically active alpha - hydroxylated derivative which accounts for 23 % of the plasma tritium 1 hour after drug administration .
The major urinary metabolite is 2 - amino - 5 nitro - 4 - ( trifluoromethyl ) phenol .
Excretion Flutamide and its metabolites are excreted mainly in the urine with only 4 . 2 % of a single dose excreted in the feces over 72 hours .
Plasma Pharmacokinetics of Flutamide and Hydroxyflutamide in Geriatric Volunteers ( mean ± SD ) Single Dose Flutamide Hydroxyflutamide Steady - State Flutamide Hydroxyflutamide C max ( ng / mL ) 25 . 2 ± 34 . 2 894 ± 406 113 ± 213 1629 ± 586 Elimination half - life ( hr ) --- 8 . 1 ± 1 . 3 7 . 8 9 . 6 ± 2 . 5 T max ( hr ) 1 . 9 ± 0 . 7 2 . 7 ± 1 . 0 1 . 3 ± 0 . 7 1 . 9 ± 0 . 6 C min ( ng / mL ) --- --- --- 673 ± 316 Special Populations Geriatric Following multiple oral dosing of 250 mg t . i . d . in normal geriatric volunteers , flutamide and its active metabolite approached steady - state plasma levels ( based on pharmacokinetic simulations ) after the fourth flutamide dose .
The half - life of the active metabolite in geriatric volunteers after a single flutamide dose is about 8 hours and at steady - state in 9 . 6 hours .
Race There are no known alterations in flutamide absorption , distribution , metabolism , or excretion due to race .
Renal Impairment Following a single 250 mg dose of flutamide administered to subjects with chronic renal insufficiency , there appeared to be no correlation between creatinine clearance and either C maxor AUC of flutamide .
Renal impairment did not have an effect on the C maxor AUC of the biologically active alpha - hydroxylated metabolite of flutamide .
In subjects with creatinine clearance of < 29 mL / min , the half - life of the active metabolite was slightly prolonged .
Flutamide and its active metabolite were not well dialyzed .
Dose adjustment in patients with chronic renal insufficiency is not warranted .
Hepatic Impairment No information on the pharmacokinetics of flutamide in hepatic impairment is available ( see BOXED WARNING , Hepatic Injury ) .
Women , Pediatrics Flutamide has not been studied in women or pediatric subjects .
Drug - Drug Interactions Interactions between flutamide capsules and LHRH - agonists have not occurred .
Increases in prothrombin time have been noted in patients receiving warfarin therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES Flutamide has been demonstrated to interfere with testosterone at the cellular level .
This can complement medical castration achieved with LHRH - agonists which suppresses testicular androgen production by inhibiting luteinizing hormone secretion .
The effects of combination therapy have been evaluated in two studies .
One study evaluated the effects of flutamide and an LHRH - agonist as neoadjuvant therapy to radiation in stage B2 - C prostatic carcinoma and the other study evaluated flutamide and an LHRH - agonist as the sole therapy in stage D2prostatic carcinoma .
Stage B2 - C Prostatic Carcinoma The effects of hormonal treatment combined with radiation was studied in 466 patients ( 231 flutamide capsules + goserelin acetate implant + radiation , 235 radiation alone ) with bulky primary tumors confined to the prostate ( stage B2 ) or extending beyond the capsule ( stage C ) , with or without pelvic node involvement .
In this multicentered , controlled trial , administration of flutamide capsules ( 250 mg t . i . d . ) and goserelin acetate ( 3 . 6 mg depot ) prior to and during radiation was associated with a significantly lower rate of local failure compared to radiation alone ( 16 % vs . 33 % at 4 years , P < 0 . 001 ) .
The combination therapy also resulted in a trend toward reduction in the incidence of distant metastases ( 27 % vs . 36 % at 4 years , P = 0 . 058 ) .
Median disease - free survival was significantly increased in patients who received complete hormonal therapy combined with radiation as compared to those patients who received radiation alone ( 4 . 4 vs 2 . 6 years , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Inclusion of normal PSA level as a criterion for disease - free survival also resulted in significantly increased median disease - free survival in patients receiving the combination therapy ( 2 . 7 vs . 1 . 5 years , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Stage D2Prostatic Carcinoma To study the effects of combination therapy in metastatic disease , 617 patients ( 311 leuprolide + flutamide , 306 leuprolide + placebo ) with previously untreated advanced prostatic carcinoma were enrolled in a large multicentered , controlled clinical trial .
Three and one - half years after the study was initiated , median survival had been reached .
The median actuarial survival time was 34 . 9 months for patients treated with leuprolide and flutamide versus 27 . 9 months for patients treated with leuprolide alone .
This 7 month increment represents a 25 % improvement in overall survival time with the flutamide therapy .
Analysis of progression - free survival showed a 2 . 6 month improvement in patients who received leuprolide plus flutamide , a 19 % increment over leuprolide and placebo .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Flutamide capsules are indicated for use in combination with LHRH - agonists for the management of locally confined Stage B 2 - C and Stage D 2 metastatic carcinoma of the prostate .
Stage B 2 - C Prostatic Carcinoma Treatment with flutamide capsules and the goserelin acetate implant should start eight weeks prior to initiating radiation therapy and continue during radiation therapy .
Stage D 2 Metastatic Carcinoma To achieve benefit from treatment , flutamide capsules should be initiated with the LHRH - agonist and continued until progression .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Flutamide capsules are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to flutamide or any component of this preparation .
Flutamide capsules are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( baseline hepatic enzymes should be evaluated prior to treatment ) .
WARNINGS Hepatic Injury SEE BOXED WARNING Use in Women Flutamide capsules are for use only in men .
This product has no indication for women and should not be used in this population , particularly for nonserious or nonlife - threatening conditions .
Fetal toxicity Flutamide may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman ( see Pregnancy ) .
Aniline toxicity One metabolite of flutamide is 4 - nitro - 3 - fluoro - methylaniline .
Several toxicities consistent with aniline exposure , including methemoglobinemia , hemolytic anemia and cholestatic jaundice have been observed in both animals and humans after flutamide administration .
In patients susceptible to aniline toxicity ( e . g . persons with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , hemoglobin M disease and smokers ) , monitoring of methemoglobin levels should be considered .
PRECAUTIONS General In clinical trials , gynecomastia occurred in 9 % of patients receiving flutamide together with medical castration .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that flutamide capsules and the drug used for medical castration should be administered concomitantly , and that they should not interrupt their dosing or stop taking these medications without consulting their physician .
Laboratory Tests Regular assessment of serum Prostate Specific Antigen ( PSA ) may be helpful in monitoring the patient ’ s response .
If PSA levels rise significantly and consistently during flutamide therapy the patient should be evaluated for clinical progression .
For patients who have objective progression of disease together with an elevated PSA , a treatment period free of antiandrogen while continuing the LHRH analogue may be considered .
Drug Interactions Increases in prothrombin time have been noted in patients receiving long - term warfarin therapy after flutamide was initiated .
Therefore close monitoring of prothrombin time is recommended and adjustment of the anticoagulant dose may be necessary when flutamide capsules are administered concomitantly with warfarin .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility In a 1 year dietary study in male rats , interstitial cell adenomas of the testes were present in 49 % to 75 % of all treated rats ( daily doses of 10 , 30 , and 50 mg / kg / day were administered ) .
These produced plasma C maxvalues that are 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 fold respectively , those associated with therapeutic doses in humans .
In male rats similarly dosed for 1 year , tumors were still present after 1 year of a drug - free period , but the incidences were 43 % to 47 % .
In a 2 year carcinogenicity study in male rats , daily administration of flutamide at these same doses produced testicular interstitial cell adenomas in 91 % to 95 % of all treated rats as opposed to 11 % of untreated control rats .
Mammary adenomas , adenocarcinomas , and fibroadenomas were increased in treated male rats at exposure levels that were 1 to 4 fold those observed during therapeutic dosing in humans .
There are likewise reports of malignant breast neoplasms in men treated with flutamide capsules ( see ADVERSE REACTIONSsection ) .
Flutamide did not demonstrate DNA modifying activity in the Ames Salmonella / microsome -- observed during a 6 week study of flutamide monotherapy in normal human volunteers .
Flutamide did not affect estrous cycles or interfere with the mating behavior of male and female rats when the drug was administered at 25 and 75 mg / kg / day prior to mating .
Males treated with 150 mg / kg / day ( 30 times the minimum effective antiandrogenic dose ) failed to mate ; mating behavior returned to normal after dosing was stopped .
Conception rates were decreased in all dosing groups .
Suppression of spermatogenesis was observed in rats dosed for 52 weeks at approximately 3 , 8 , or 17 times the human dose and in dogs dosed for 78 weeks at 1 . 4 , 2 . 3 , and 3 . 7 times the human dose .
Animal Toxicology Serious cardiac lesions were observed in 2 / 10 beagle dogs receiving 25 mg / kg / day for 78 weeks and 3 / 16 receiving 40 mg / kg / day for 2 to 4 years .
These lesions , indicative of chronic injury and repair processes , included chronic myxomatous degeneration , intra - atrial fibrosis , myocardial acidophilic degeneration , vasculitis and perivasculitis .
The doses at which these lesions occurred were associated with 2 - hydroxyflutamide levels that were 1 to 12 fold greater than those observed in humans at therapeutic levels .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D There was decreased 24 hour survival in the offspring of pregnant rats treated with flutamide at doses of 30 , 100 or 200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 , 9 and 19 times the human dose ) .
A slight increase in minor variations in the development of the sternebrae and vertebrae was seen in fetuses of rats treated with two higher doses .
Feminization of the male rats also occurred at the two higher dose levels .
There was a decreased survival rate in the offspring of rabbits receiving the highest dose ( 15 mg / kg / day , equal to 1 . 4 times the human dose ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Stage B 2 - C Prostatic Carcinoma Treatment with flutamide capsules and the goserelin acetate implant did not add substantially to the toxicity of radiation treatment alone .
The following adverse experiences were reported during a multicenter clinical trial comparing flutamide + goserelin acetate implant + radiation versus radiation alone .
The most frequently reported ( greater than 5 % ) adverse experiences are listed below : Adverse Events During Acute Radiation Therapy ( within first 90 days of radiation therapy ) ( n = 231 ) Goserelin Acetate Implant + Flutamide + Radiation ( n = 235 ) Radiation Only % All % All Rectum / Large Bowel 80 76 Bladder 58 60 Skin 37 37 Adverse Events During Late Radiation Phase ( after 90 days of radiation therapy ) ( n = 231 ) Goserelin Acetate Implant + Flutamide + Radiation ( n = 235 ) Radiation Only % All % All Diarrhea 36 40 Cystitis 16 16 Rectal Bleeding 14 20 Proclitis 8 8 Hematuria 7 12 Additional adverse event data were collected for the combination therapy with radiation group over both the hormonal treatment and hormonal treatment plus radiation phases of the study .
Adverse experiences occurring in more than 5 % of patients in this group , over both parts of the study , were hot flashes ( 46 % ) , diarrhea ( 40 % ) , nausea ( 9 % ) , and skin rash ( 8 % ) .
Stage D 2 Metastatic Carcinoma The following adverse experiences were reported during a multicenter clinical trial comparing flutamide + LHRH agonist versus placebo + LHRH agonist .
The most frequently reported ( greater than 5 % ) adverse experiences during treatment with flutamide capsules in combination with an LHRH agonist are listed in the table below .
For comparison , adverse experiences seen with an LHRH agonist and placebo are also listed in the following table .
( n = 294 ) Flutamide + LHRH agonist ( n = 28 ) Placebo + LHRH agonist % All % All Hot Flashes 61 57 Loss of Libido 36 31 Impotence 33 29 Diarrhea 12 4 Nausea / Vomiting 11 10 Gynecomastia 9 11 Other 7 9 Other GI 6 4 As shown in the table , for both treatment groups , the most frequently occurring adverse experiences ( hot flashes , impotence , loss of libido ) were those known to be associated with low serum androgen levels and known to occur with LHRH agonists alone .
The only notable difference was the higher incidence of diarrhea in the flutamide + LHRH agonist group ( 12 % ) , which was severe in 5 % as opposed to the placebo + LHRH agonist ( 4 % ) , which was severe in less than 1 % .
In addition , the following adverse reactions were reported during treatment with flutamide + LHRH agonist .
Cardiovascular System : hypertension in 1 % of patients .
Central Nervous System : CNS ( drowsiness / confusion / depression / anxiety / nervousness ) reactions occurred in 1 % of patients .
Gastrointestinal System : anorexia 4 % , and other GI disorders occurred in 6 % of patients .
Hematopoietic System : anemia occurred in 6 % , leukopenia in 3 % , and thrombocytopenia in 1 % of patients .
Liver and Biliary System : hepatitis and jaundice in less than 1 % of patients .
Skin : irritation at the injection site and rash occurred in 3 % of patients .
Other : edema occurred in 4 % , genitourinary and neuromuscular symptoms in 2 % , and pulmonary symptoms in less than 1 % of patients .
In addition , the following spontaneous adverse experiences have been reported during the marketing of flutamide : hemolytic anemia , macrocytic anemia , methemoglobinemia , sulfhemoglobinemia , photosensitivity reactions ( including erythema , ulceration , bullous eruptions , and epidermal necrolysis ) and urine discoloration .
The urine was noted to change to an amber or yellow - green appearance which can be attributed to the flutamide and / or its metabolites .
Also reported were cholestatic jaundice , hepatic encephalopathy , and hepatic necrosis .
The hepatic conditions were often reversible after discontinuing therapy ; however , there have been reports of death following severe hepatic injury associated with use of flutamide .
Malignant breast neoplasms have occurred rarely in male patients being treated with flutamide capsules .
Abnormal Laboratory Test Values : Laboratory abnormalities including elevated SGOT , SGPT , bilirubin values , SGGT , BUN , and serum creatinine have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE In animal studies with flutamide alone , signs of overdose included hypoactivity , piloerection , slow respiration , ataxia , and / or lacrimation , anorexia , tranquilization , emesis , and methemoglobinemia .
Clinical trials have been conducted with flutamide in doses up to 1500 mg per day for periods up to 36 weeks with no serious adverse effects reported .
Those adverse reactions reported included gynecomastia , breast tenderness , and some increases in SGOT .
The single dose of flutamide ordinarily associated with symptoms of overdose or considered to be life - threatening has not been established .
Flutamide is highly protein bound , and is not cleared by hemodialysis .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting does not occur spontaneously , it should be induced if the patient is alert .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 2 capsules 3 times a day at 8 hour intervals for a total daily dose of 750 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Flutamide capsules USP , 125 mg , are available as opaque , beige / beige capsules , imprinted “ par / 753 ” on the cap and body .
They are available in bottle of 180 ( NDC 60429 - 272 - 18 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Important information for patients taking flutamide capsules .
Read this information carefully each time your prescription is refilled because there may be new information available .
This summary does not tell you everything you need to know about flutamide therapy .
Your doctor is the best source of information about your treatment .
Ask your doctor about questions you have .
What is flutamide therapy ?
Flutamide capsules , in combination with other therapies , is a treatment option for men with some types of prostate cancer .
Prostate cancer results from the abnormal growth of prostate cells .
Medical scientists do not know exactly what causes the abnormal cells , but age , environment , and genetics are important factors .
Male hormones ( “ androgens ” ) cause the cancer to grow .
The cancer growth can be slowed down by blocking the effect of androgens .
The flutamide product is used together with an injection called “ LHRH agonist , ” as a combined treatment called “ total androgen blockade . ”
The goal of this treatment is to reduce androgen levels and to block the effect of androgen on the tumor .
The LHRH agonist reduces androgen levels .
Flutamide therapy blocks the effect of androgen on the tumor .
Who should not take the flutamide product ?
You should not take flutamide capsules if you have liver problems or if you are allergic to it .
Flutamide capsules are for use onlyin men , therefore women should not take flutamide capsules .
Are there important risks I should know about flutamide therapy ?
Some men taking the flutamide product had liver injury and needed to be hospitalized .
In rare cases , men died because of liver failure while they were taking flutamide capsules .
In about half of these cases , the liver failure occurred in the first 3 months that they were taking flutamide capsules .
Because the flutamide product may cause liver failure , it is very important that you have all blood tests recommended by your doctor .
These tests help identify whether you are having liver problems .
A recommended schedule for these blood tests is : • Before starting flutamide treatment .
• Every month for the first 4 months of therapy .
• Periodically after the first 4 months .
In addition , you should call your doctor right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms : • Loss of appetite .
• Nausea and vomiting .
• Stomach or abdominal pain .
• Fatigue ( feeling extremely tired ) .
• Flu - like symptoms ( muscle aches , soreness ) .
• Brown urine .
• jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes ) .
These may be signs of liver failure .
How should I take flutamide capsules ?
Take your flutamide capsules as your doctor has prescribed .
The usual dosing is 2 capsules every 8 hours .
Your doctor will determine whether flutamide therapy is right for you based on many different factors .
These include how large your tumor is , how far it has spread and your physical condition .
In addition to flutamide capsules , you may be getting other treatments , including regular injections of LHRH agonist or radiation therapy .
Do not stop or interrupt any treatment without consulting your healthcare professional .
If you miss a dose of flutamide capsules , simply continue therapy with your next scheduled dose .
Do not try to make up for it by taking extra capsules .
Can I take other medicines ?
If you are taking any other medicines , especially warfarin ( a blood - thinning drug ) , tell your doctor before beginning flutamide therapy .
What are the other possible side effects of taking flutamide capsules ?
In a medical study , when flutamide capsules were taken together with an LHRH agonist , the most common side effects were hot flashes , loss of sex drive ( libido ) and impotence .
In addition , some men had diarrhea , nausea or vomiting , and breast enlargement .
In another medical study , when the flutamide product was taken together with goserelin acetate ( an LHRH agonist ) and radiation therapy , the side effects of flutamide therapy were about the same as when radiation therapy was given alone .
These included hot flashes , diarrhea , nausea and skin rash .
What can I do if I get diarrhea ?
If you experience moderate diarrhea due to flutamide capsules , the following advice may help : • drink plenty of fluids • reduce your intake of dairy products ( for example , milk , cheese , yogurt ) .
• Increase your intake of whole grains , fruits and vegetables .
• Stop laxative use .
• Take nonprescription antidiarrheal medicines .
If your diarrhea continues or it becomes severe , contact your doctor right away .
Are there any other lab tests my doctor will be performing ?
Your doctor may perform other regular tests ( such as the PSA blood test ) to ensure that your body is responding to treatment .
Ask your doctor if you have any questions about how your flutamide therapy is being monitored .
Please ask your doctor about any questions concerning prostate cancer or flutamide therapy , or you can also ask for a more detailed leaflet that is written for healthcare professionals .
Manufactured By : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 Marketed / Packaged by : GSMS , Inc .
Camarillo , CA USA 93012 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 125 MG / 180 CAPSULE CONTAINER LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
