DESCRIPTION Pindolol , a synthetic beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity is 1 - ( Indol - 4 - yloxy ) - 3 - ( isopropylamino ) - 2 - propanol .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pindolol , USP is a white to off - white , crystalline powder having a faint odor which is practically insoluble in water ; slightly soluble in methanol ; and very slightly soluble in chloroform .
Each tablet for oral administration contains pindolol , USP and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch ( corn ) , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pindolol tablets are a nonselective beta - adrenergic antagonist ( beta - blocker ) which possesses intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( ISA ) in therapeutic dosage ranges but does not possess quinidine - like membrane stabilizing activity .
PHARMACODYNAMICS In standard pharmacologic tests in man and animals , pindolol tablets attenuate increases in heart rate , systolic blood pressure , and cardiac output resulting from exercise and isoproterenol administration , thus confirming its beta - blocking properties .
The ISA or partial agonist activity of pindolol tablets is mediated directly at the adrenergic receptor sites and may be blocked by other beta - blockers .
In catecholamine depleted animal experiments , ISA is manifested as an increase in the inotropic and chronotropic activity of the myocardium .
In man , ISA is manifested by a smaller reduction in the resting heart rate ( 4 to 8 beats / min ) than is seen with drugs lacking ISA .
There is also a smaller reduction in resting cardiac output .
The clinical significance of this observation has not been evaluated and there is no evidence , or reason to believe , that exercise cardiac output is less affected by pindolol tablets .
Pindolol tablets have been shown in controlled , double - blind clinical studies to be an effective antihypertensive agent when used as monotherapy , or when added to therapy with thiazide - type diuretics .
Divided dosages in the range of 10 mg to 60 mg daily have been shown to be effective .
As monotherapy , pindolol tablets are as effective as propranolol , α - methyldopa , hydrochlorothiazide , and chlorthalidone in reducing systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
The effect on blood pressure is not orthostatic , i . e . , pindolol tablets were equally effective in reducing the supine and standing blood pressure .
In open , long - term studies up to 4 years , no evidence of diminution of the blood pressure lowering response was observed .
An average 3 - pound increase in body weight has been noted in patients treated with pindolol tablets alone , a larger increase than was observed with propranolol or placebo .
The weight gain appeared unrelated to blood pressure response and was not associated with an increased risk of heart failure , although edema was more common than in control patients .
Pindolol tablets do not have a consistent effect on plasma renin activity .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents has not been established , but several mechanisms have been postulated : 1 ) an effect on the central nervous system resulting in a reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery , 2 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic receptor sites , leading to decreased cardiac output , 3 ) an inhibition of renin release .
These mechanisms appear less likely for pindolol than other beta - blockers in view of the modest effect on resting cardiac output and renin .
Beta - blockade therapy is useful when it is necessary to suppress the effects of beta - adrenergic agonists in order to achieve therapeutic goals .
However , in certain clinical situations , ( e . g . , cardiac failure , heart block , bronchospasm ) , the preservation of an adequate sympathetic tone may be necessary to maintain vital functions .
Although a beta - antagonist with ISA such as pindolol tablets does not eliminate sympathetic tone entirely , there is no controlled evidence that it is safer than other beta - blockers in such conditions as heart failure , heart block , or bronchospasm or is less likely to cause those conditions .
In single - dose studies of the effects of beta - blockers on FEV 1 , pindolol tablets were indistinguishable from other non - cardioselective agents in its reduction of FEV 1 , and its reduction in the effectiveness of an exogenous beta - agonist .
Exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease .
Abrupt withdrawal of these agents in patients without coronary artery disease has resulted in transient symptoms , including tremulousness , sweating , palpitation , headache , and malaise .
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain these phenomena , among them increased sensitivity to catecholamines because of increased numbers of beta receptors .
PHARMACOKINETICS AND METABOLISM Pindolol tablets are rapidly and reproducibly absorbed ( greater than 95 % ) , achieving peak plasma concentrations within 1 hour of drug administration .
Pindolol tablets have no significant first - pass effect .
The blood concentrations are proportional in a linear manner to the administered dose in the range of 5 mg to 20 mg .
Upon repeated administration to the same subject , variation is minimal .
After a single dose , intersubject variation for peak plasma concentrations was about 4 - fold ( e . g . , 45 ng / mL to 167 ng / mL for a 20 mg dose ) .
Upon multiple dosing , intersubject variation decreased to 2 - to 2 . 5 - fold .
Pindolol tablets are only 40 % bound to plasma proteins and are evenly distributed between plasma and red cells .
The volume of distribution in healthy subjects is about 2 L / kg .
Pindolol tablets undergo extensive metabolism in animals and man .
In man , 35 % to 40 % is excreted unchanged in the urine and 60 % to 65 % is metabolized primarily to hydroxy - metabolites which are excreted as glucuronides and ethereal sulfates .
The polar metabolites are excreted with a half - life of approximately 8 hours and thus multiple dosing therapy ( q . 8 H ) results in a less than 50 % accumulation in plasma .
About 6 % to 9 % of an administered intravenous dose is excreted by the bile into the feces .
The disposition of pindolol tablets after oral administration is monophasic with a half - life in healthy subjects or hypertensive patients with normal renal function of approximately 3 to 4 hours .
Following t . i . d . administration ( q . 8 H ) , no significant accumulation of pindolol tablets are observed .
In elderly hypertensive patients with normal renal function , the half - life of pindolol tablets is more variable , averaging about 7 hours , but with values as high as 15 hours .
In hypertensive patients with renal diseases , the half - life is within the range expected for healthy subjects .
However , a significant decrease ( 50 % ) in volume of distribution ( V D ) is observed in uremic patients and V D appears to be directly correlated to creatinine clearance .
Therefore , renal drug clearance is significantly reduced in uremic patients , resulting in a significant decrease in urinary excretion of unchanged drug .
Uremic patients with a creatinine clearance of less than 20 mL / min generally excreted less than 15 % of the administered dose unchanged in the urine .
In patients with histologically diagnosed cirrhosis of the liver , the elimination of pindolol tablets was more variable in rate and generally significantly slower than in healthy subjects .
The total body clearance of pindolol tablets in cirrhotic patients ranged from about 50 mL / min to 300 mL / min and was directly correlated to antipyrine clearance .
The half - life ranges from 2 . 5 hours to greater than 30 hours .
These findings strongly suggest that caution should be exercised in dosage adjustments of pindolol tablets in such patients .
The bioavailability of pindolol tablets is not significantly affected by coadministration of food , hydralazine , hydrochlorothiazide or aspirin .
Pindolol tablets have no effect on warfarin activity or the clinical effectiveness of digoxin , although small transient decreases in plasma digoxin concentrations were noted .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pindolol tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension .
It may be used alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents , particularly with a thiazide - type diuretic .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pindolol tablets are contraindicated in : 1 ) bronchial asthma ; 2 ) overt cardiac failure ; 3 ) cardiogenic shock ; 4 ) second and third degree heart block ; 5 ) severe bradycardia .
( See WARNINGS . )
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be a vital component supporting circulatory function in patients with congestive heart failure , and its inhibition by beta - blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
Although beta - blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure , if necessary , pindolol tablets can be used with caution in patients with a history of failure who are well - compensated , usually with digitalis and diuretics .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase risk of bradycardia .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents do not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle .
In Patients Without A History of Cardiac Failure In patients with latent cardiac insufficiency , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can in some cases lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be fully digitalized and / or be given a diuretic , and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues , despite adequate digitalization and diuretic , pindolol tablets therapy should be withdrawn ( gradually , if possible ) .
Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Hypersensitivity to catecholamines has been observed in patients withdrawn from beta - blocker therapy ; exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred after abrupt discontinuation of such therapy .
When discontinuing chronically administered pindolol tablets , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , pindolol tablets administration should be reinstituted promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ’ s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue pindolol tablets therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
Nonallergic Bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) - Patients with Bronchospastic Diseases Should in General Not Receive Beta - Blockers Pindolol tablets should be administered with caution since it may block bronchodilation produced by endogenous or exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta 2 receptors .
Major Surgery Because beta - blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to reflex stimuli and may increase the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures , resulting in protracted hypotension or low cardiac output , it has generally been suggested that such therapy should be gradually withdrawn several days prior to surgery .
Recognition of the increased sensitivity to catecholamines of patients recently withdrawn from beta - blocker therapy , however , has made this recommendation controversial .
If possible , beta - blockers should be withdrawn well before surgery takes place .
In the event of emergency surgery , the anesthesiologist should be informed that the patient is on beta - blocker therapy .
The effects of pindolol tablets can be reversed by administration of beta - receptor agonists such as isoproterenol , dopamine , dobutamine , or norepinephrine .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heart beat has also been reported with beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Beta - adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms ( e . g . , tachycardia and blood pressure changes ) of acute hypoglycemia .
This is especially important with labile diabetics .
Beta - blockade also reduces the release of insulin in response to hyperglycemia ; therefore , it may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic drugs .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade which might precipitate a thyroid crisis .
PRECAUTIONS Impaired Renal or Hepatic Function Beta - blocking agents should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function .
Poor renal function has only minor effects on pindolol tablets clearance , but poor hepatic function may cause blood levels of pindolol to increase substantially .
Information for Patients Patients , especially those with evidence of coronary artery insufficiency , should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of pindolol tablets therapy without the physician ’ s advice .
Although cardiac failure rarely occurs in properly selected patients , patients being treated with beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be advised to consult the physician at the first sign or symptom of impending failure .
Drug Interactions Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
Patients receiving pindolol tablets plus a catecholamine - depleting agent should , therefore , be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Pindolol tablets have been used with a variety of antihypertensive agents , including hydrochlorothiazide , hydralazine , and guanethidine without unexpected adverse interactions .
Pindolol tablets have been shown to increase serum thioridazine levels when both drugs are coadministered .
Pindolol levels may also be increased with this combination .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In chronic oral toxicologic studies ( 1 to 2 years ) in mice , rats , and dogs , pindolol tablets did not produce any significant toxic effects .
In 2 - year oral carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice in doses as high as 59 mg / kg / day and 124 mg / kg / day ( 50 and 100 times the maximum recommended human dose ) , respectively , pindolol tablets did not produce any neoplastic , preneoplastic , or nonneoplastic pathologic lesions .
In fertility and general reproductive performance studies in rats , pindolol tablets caused no adverse effects at a dose of 10 mg / kg .
In the male fertility and general reproductive performance test in rats , definite toxicity characterized by mortality and decreased weight gain was observed in the group given 100 mg / kg / day .
At 30 mg / kg / day , decreased mating was associated with testicular atrophy and / or decreased spermatogenesis .
This response is not clearly drug - related , however , as there was no dose - response relationship within this experiment and no similar effect on testes of rats administered pindolol tablets as a dietary admixture for 104 weeks .
There appeared to be an increase in prenatal mortality in males given 100 mg / kg but development of offspring was not impaired .
In females administered pindolol tablets prior to mating through day 21 of lactation , mating behavior was decreased at 100 mg / kg and 30 mg / kg .
At these dosages there also was increased mortality of offspring .
Prenatal mortality was increased at 10 mg / kg but there was not a clear dose - response relationship in this experiment .
There was an increased resorption rate at 100 mg / kg observed in females necropsied on the 15 th day of gestation .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Category B Studies in rats and rabbits exceeding 100 times the maximum recommended human doses , revealed no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity .
Since there are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women , and since animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , pindolol tablets , as with any drug , should be employed during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Since pindolol is secreted in human milk , nursing should not be undertaken by mothers receiving the drug .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
CLINICAL LABORATORY Minor persistent elevations in serum transaminases ( SGOT , SGPT ) have been noted in 7 % of patients during pindolol tablets administration , but progressive elevations were not observed .
These elevations were not associated with any other abnormalities that would suggest hepatic impairment , such as decreased serum albumin and total proteins .
During more than a decade of worldwide marketing , there have been no reports in the medical literature of overt hepatic injury .
Alkaline phosphatase , lactic acid dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , and uric acid are also elevated on rare occasions .
The significance of these findings is unknown .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions have been mild .
The incidences listed in the following table are derived from 12 - week comparative double - blind , parallel design trials in hypertensive patients given pindolol tablets as monotherapy , given various active control drugs as monotherapy , or given placebo .
Data for pindolol tablets and the positive controls were pooled from several trials because no striking differences were seen in the individual studies , with one exception .
When considering all adverse reactions reported , the frequency of edema was noticeably higher in positive control trials ( 16 % pindolol tablets vs . 9 % positive control ) than in placebo controlled trials ( 6 % pindolol tablets vs . 3 % placebo ) .
The table includes adverse reactions either volunteered or elicited , and at least possibly drug - related , which were reported in greater than 2 % of pindolol tablets patients and other selected important reactions .
ADVERSE REACTIONS WHICH WERE VOLUNTEERED OR ELICITED ( and at least possibly drug - related ) Body System / Adverse Reactions Pindolol Tablets ( N = 322 ) % Active Controls [ 1 ] ( N = 188 ) % Placebo ( N = 78 ) % Central Nervous System Bizarre or Many Dreams 5 0 6 Dizziness 9 11 1 Fatigue 8 4 4 Hallucinations < 1 0 0 Insomnia 10 3 10 Nervousness 7 3 5 Weakness 4 2 1 Autonomic Nervous System Paresthesia 3 1 6 Cardiovascular Dyspnea 5 4 6 Edema 6 3 1 Heart Failure < 1 < 1 0 Palpitations < 1 1 0 Musculoskeletal Chest Pain 3 1 3 Joint Pain 7 4 4 Muscle Cramps 3 1 0 Muscle Pain 10 9 8 Gastrointestinal Abdominal Discomfort 4 4 5 Nausea 5 2 1 Skin Pruritus 1 < 1 0 Rash < 1 < 1 1 [ 1 ] Active Controls : Patients received either propranolol , α - methyldopa or a diuretic ( hydrochlorothiazide or chlorthalidone ) .
The following selected ( potentially important ) adverse reactions were seen in 2 % or fewer patients and their relationship to pindolol tablets is uncertain .
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM : anxiety , lethargy ; AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM : visual disturbances , hyperhidrosis ; CARDIOVASCULAR : bradycardia , claudication , cold extremities , heart block , hypotension , syncope , tachycardia , weight gain ; GASTROINTESTINAL : diarrhea , vomiting ; RESPIRATORY : wheezing ; UROGENITAL : impotence , pollakiuria ; MISCELLANEOUS : eye discomfort or burning eyes .
POTENTIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS In addition , other adverse effects not aforementioned have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse effects of pindolol tablets .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Allergic : Erythematous rash ; fever combined with aching and sore throat ; laryngospasm ; respiratory distress .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ; thrombocytopenic and nonthrombocytopenic purpura .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis ; ischemic colitis .
Miscellaneous : Reversible alopecia ; Peyronie ’ s disease .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with pindolol tablets during investigational use and extensive foreign experience amounting to over 4 million patient - years .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information on emergency treatment of overdosage is available .
Therefore , on the basis of the pharmacologic actions of pindolol tablets , the following general measures should be employed as appropriate in addition to gastric lavage : Excessive Bradycardia : administer atropine ; if there is no response to vagal blockade , administer isoproterenol cautiously .
Cardiac Failure : digitalize the patient and / or administer diuretic .
It has been reported that glucagon may be useful in this situation .
Hypotension : administer vasopressors , e . g . , epinephrine or norepinephrine , with serial monitoring of blood pressure .
( There is evidence that epinephrine may be the drug of choice . )
Bronchospasm : administer a beta 2 stimulating agent such as isoproterenol and / or a theophylline derivative .
A case of an acute overdosage has been reported with an intake of 500 mg of pindolol tablets by a hypertensive patient .
Blood pressure increased and heart rate was ≥ 80 beats / min .
Recovery was uneventful .
In another case , 250 mg of pindolol tablets was taken with 150 mg diazepam and 50 mg nitrazepam , producing coma and hypotension .
The patient recovered in 24 hours .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of pindolol tablets should be individualized .
The recommended initial dose of pindolol tablets is 5 mg b . i . d . alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
An antihypertensive response usually occurs within the first week of treatment .
Maximal response , however , may take as long as or occasionally longer than 2 weeks .
If a satisfactory reduction in blood pressure does not occur within 3 to 4 weeks , the dose may be adjusted in increments of 10 mg / day at these intervals up to a maximum of 60 mg / day .
HOW SUPPLIED Pindolol Tablets , USP are available containing 5 mg or 10 mg of pindolol , USP The 5 mg tablets are white to off - white colored , round shaped , biconvex scored tablets debossed with ' P ' above the score and ' 5 ' below the score on one side of the tablet and plain on the other side , free from physical defects .
They are available as follows : NDC 72789 - 100 - 01 Bottles of 100 tablets The 10 mg tablets are white to off - white colored , round shaped , biconvex scored tablets debossed with ' P ' above the score and ' 10 ' below the score on one side of the tablet and plain on the other side , free from physical defects .
They are available as follows : NDC 72789 - 099 - 01 Bottles of 100 tablets Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg Pindolol Tablets , USP 5 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Pindolol Tablets , USP 10 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
