Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each chewing piece ) Nicotine polacrilex ( equal to 4 mg nicotine ) Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium - restricted diet • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase blood pressure .
• stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth , teeth or jaw problems occur • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
Wrap used pieces of gum in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • before using this product , read the enclosed User ' s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine gum • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine gum according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles .
Then park it between your cheek and gum .
When the tingle is gone , begin chewing again , until the tingle returns .
• repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone ( about 30 minutes ) • do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum , or while chewing a piece • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks • if you experience strong or frequent cravings , you may use a second piece within the hour .
However , do not continuously use one piece after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects .
• do not use more than 24 pieces a day • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the gum for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information • each piece contains : calcium 94 mg , sodium 13 mg • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • protect from light Inactive ingredients acacia , acesulfame potassium , carnauba wax , D & C yellow # 10 Al . lake , edible ink , flavor , gum base , hypromellose , magnesium oxide , menthol , peppermint oil , polysorbate 80 , sodium carbonate , sucralose , titanium dioxide , xylitol Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 800 - 419 - 4766 Repackaged and Distributed with Permission of the Manufacturer by Convenience Valet ® , Melrose Park , IL 60160 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 Piece Blister Pack Carton This package size may not be a full day ' s supply ; it is intended to start or continue a quit attempt .
gsk NDC 0135 - 0242 - 11 Nicorette ® nicotine polacrilex gum , 4 mg • stop smoking aid Gum 4 mg FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE WITHIN 30 MINUTES OF WAKING UP .
If you smoke your first cigarette MORE THAN 30 MINUTES after waking up , use Nicorette ® 2 mg Gum Coated FOR BOLD FLAVOR Fruit Chill ® 10 PIECES , 4 mg EACH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
