HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use VASOPRESSIN INJECTION safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for VASOPRESSIN INJECTION .
VASOPRESSIN injection , for intravenous use Initial U . S . Approval : 2014 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vasopressin injection is indicated to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock who remain hypotensive despite fluids and catecholamines .
( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dilute 20 units / mL single dose vial with normal saline ( 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) or 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) to either 0 . 1 units / mL or 1 unit / mL for intravenous administration .
Discard unused diluted solution after 18 hours at room temperature or 24 hours under refrigeration .
( 2 . 1 ) Post - cardiotomy shock : 0 . 03 to 0 . 1 units / minute ( 2 . 2 ) Septic shock : 0 . 01 to 0 . 07 units / minute ( 2 . 2 ) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 20 units / mL in a single dose vial .
To be used after dilution .
( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Vasopressin injection 1 mL single dose vial does not contain chlorobutanol and is therefore contraindicated only in patients with a known allergy or hypersensitivity to 8 - L - arginine vasopressin .
( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Can worsen cardiac function .
( 5 . 1 ) Reversible diabetes insipidus ( 5 . 2 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions include decreased cardiac output , bradycardia , tachyarrhythmias , hyponatremia and ischemia ( coronary , mesenteric , skin , digital ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Pressor effects of catecholamines and vasopressin injection are expected to be additive .
( 7 . 1 ) Indomethacin may prolong effects of vasopressin injection .
( 7 . 2 ) Co - administration of ganglionic blockers or drugs causing SIADH may increase the pressor response .
( 7 . 3 , 7 . 5 ) Co - administration of drugs causing diabetes insipidus may decrease the pressor response .
( 7 . 6 ) USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : May induce uterine contractions .
( 8 . 1 ) Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) Geriatric Use : No safety issues have been identified in older patients .
( 8 . 5 ) Revised : 2 / 2022 TABLE OF CONTENTS FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Preparation of Solution 2 . 2 Administration 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Worsening Cardiac Function 5 . 2 Reversible Diabetes Insipidus 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Catecholamines 7 . 2 Indomethacin 7 . 3 Ganglionic Blocking Agents 7 . 4 Drugs Suspected of Causing SIADH 7 . 5 Drugs Suspected of Causing Diabetes Insipidus 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 2 Lactation 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 10 OVERDOSAGE 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology 14 CLINICAL STUDIES16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vasopressin injection is indicated to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock who remain hypotensive despite fluids and catecholamines .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Preparation of Solution Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use , whenever solution and container permit .
Vasopressin Injection Solution for Dilution , 20 units / mL Dilute vasopressin injection in normal saline ( 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) or 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) prior to use for intravenous administration .
Discard unused diluted solution after 18 hours at room temperature or 24 hours under refrigeration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Administration In general , titrate to the lowest dose compatible with a clinically acceptable response .
The recommended starting dose is : Post - cardiotomy shock : 0 . 03 units / minute Septic Shock : 0 . 01 units / minute Titrate up by 0 . 005 units / minute at 10 - to 15 - minute intervals until the target blood pressure is reached .
There are limited data for doses above 0 . 1 units / minute for post - cardiotomy shock and 0 . 07 units / minute for septic shock .
Adverse reactions are expected to increase with higher doses .
After target blood pressure has been maintained for 8 hours without the use of catecholamines , taper vasopressin injection by 0 . 005 units / minute every hour as tolerated to maintain target blood pressure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Vasopressin injection , USP is a clear , practically colorless solution available as 20 units / mL in a single dose vial .
To be used after dilution .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Vasopressin injection 1 mL single dose vial does not contain chlorobutanol and is therefore contraindicated only in patients with a known allergy or hypersensitivity to 8 - L - arginine vasopressin .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Worsening Cardiac Function A decrease in cardiac index may be observed with the use of vasopressin .
5 . 2 Reversible Diabetes Insipidus Patients may experience reversible diabetes inspidus , manifested by the development of polyuria , a dilute urine , and hypernatremia , after cessation of treatment with vasopressin .
Monitor serum electrolytes , fluid status and urine output after vasopressin discontinuation .
Some patients may require readministration of vasopressin or administration of desmopressin to correct fluid and electrolyte shifts .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of vasopressin were identified in the literature .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Bleeding / lymphatic system disorders : Hemorrhagic shock , decreased platelets , intractable bleeding Cardiac disorders : Right heart failure , atrial fibrillation , bradycardia , myocardial ischemia Gastrointestinal disorders : Mesenteric ischemia Hepatobiliary : Increased bilirubin levels Renal / urinary disorders : Acute renal insufficiency Vascular disorders : Distal limb ischemia Metabolic : Hyponatremia Skin : Ischemic lesions Postmarketing Experience Reversible diabetes insipidus [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Catecholamines Use with catecholamines is expected to result in an additive effect on mean arterial blood pressure and other hemodynamic parameters .
Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended ; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed .
7 . 2 Indomethacin Use with indomethacin may prolong the effect of vasopressin injection on cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance .
Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended ; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Ganglionic Blocking Agents Use with ganglionic blocking agents may increase the effect of vasopressin injection on mean arterial blood pressure .
Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended ; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Drugs Suspected of Causing SIADH Use with drugs suspected of causing SIADH ( e . g . , SSRIs , tricyclic antidepressants , haloperidol , chlorpropamide , enalapril , methyldopa , pentamidine , vincristine , cyclophosphamide , ifosfamide , felbamate ) may increase the pressor effect in addition to the antidiuretic effect of vasopressin injection .
Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended ; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed .
7 . 5 Drugs Suspected of Causing Diabetes Insipidus Use with drugs suspected of causing diabetes insipidus ( e . g . , demeclocycline , lithium , foscarnet , clozapine ) may decrease the pressor effect in addition to the antidiuretic effect of vasopressin injection .
Hemodynamic monitoring is recommended ; adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on vasopressin injection use in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
Clinical Considerations Dose adjustments during pregnancy and the postpartum period : Because of increased clearance of vasopressin in the second and third trimester , the dose of vasopressin injection may need to be increased [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Maternal adverse reactions : Vasopressin injection may produce tonic uterine contractions that could threaten the continuation of pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation There are no data on the presence of vasopressin injection in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of vasopressin injection in pediatric patients with vasodilatory shock have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of vasopressin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 ) , ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with vasopressin injection can be expected to manifest as consequences of vasoconstriction of various vascular beds ( peripheral , mesenteric , and coronary ) and as hyponatremia .
In addition , overdosage may lead less commonly to ventricular tachyarrhythmias ( including Torsade de Pointes ) , rhabdomyolysis , and non - specific gastrointestinal symptoms .
Direct effects will resolve within minutes of withdrawal of treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Vasopressin is a polypeptide hormone .
Vasopressin injection , USP is a sterile , aqueous solution of synthetic arginine vasopressin for intravenous administration .
The 1 mL solution contains vasopressin 20 units / mL , 1 . 36 mg sodium acetate buffer and Water for Injection , USP .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid are included to adjust to a pH of 3 . 8 .
The chemical name of vasopressin is Cyclo ( 1 - 6 ) L - Cysteinyl - L - Tyrosyl - L - Phenylalanyl - L - Glutaminyl - L - Asparaginyl - L - Cysteinyl - L - Prolyl - L - Arginyl - L - Glycinamide .
It is a white to off - white amorphous powder , freely soluble in water .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C46H65N15O12S2 Molecular Weight : 1084 . 23 One mg is equivalent to 530 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Vasopressin causes vasoconstriction by binding to V1 receptors on vascular smooth muscle coupled to the Gq / 11 - phospholipase C - phosphatidyl - inositol - triphosphate pathway , resulting in the release of intracellular calcium .
In addition , vasopressin stimulates antidiuresis via stimulation of V2 receptors which are coupled to adenyl cyclase .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics At therapeutic doses exogenous vasopressin elicits a vasoconstrictive effect in most vascular beds including the splanchnic , renal and cutaneous circulation .
In addition , vasopressin at pressor doses triggers contractions of smooth muscles in the gastrointestinal tract mediated by muscular V1 - receptors and release of prolactin and ACTH via V3 receptors .
At lower concentrations typical for the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin inhibits water diuresis via renal V2 receptors .
In addition , vasopressin has been demonstrated to cause vasodilation in numerous vascular beds that are mediated by V2 , V3 , oxytocin and purinergic P2 receptors .
In patients with vasodilatory shock vasopressin in therapeutic doses increases systemic vascular resistance and mean arterial blood pressure and reduces the dose requirements for norepinephrine .
Vasopressin tends to decrease heart rate and cardiac output .
The pressor effect is proportional to the infusion rate of exogenous vasopressin .
The pressor effect reaches its peak within 15 minutes .
After stopping the infusion the pressor effect fades within 20 minutes .
There is no evidence for tachyphylaxis or tolerance to the pressor effect of vasopressin in patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Vasopressin plasma concentrations increase linearly with increasing infusion rates from 10 to 200 μU / kg / min .
Steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after 30 minutes of continuous intravenous infusion .
Distribution Vasopressin does not appear to bind plasma protein .
The volume of distribution is 140 mL / kg .
Elimination At infusion rates used in vasodilatory shock ( 0 . 01 to 0 . 1 units / minute ) , the clearance of vasopressin is 9 to 25 mL / min / kg in patients with vasodilatory shock .
The apparent t1 / 2 of vasopressin at these levels is ≤ 10 minutes .
Metabolism Serine protease , carboxipeptidase and disulfide oxido - reductase cleave vasopressin at sites relevant for the pharmacological activity of the hormone .
Thus , the generated metabolites are not expected to retain important pharmacological activity .
Excretion Vasopressin is predominantly metabolized and only about 6 % of the dose is excreted unchanged into urine .
Specific Populations Pregnancy : Because of a spillover into blood of placental vasopressinase , the clearance of exogenous and endogenous vasopressin increases gradually over the course of a pregnancy .
During the first trimester of pregnancy , the clearance is only slightly increased .
However , by the third trimester the clearance of vasopressin is increased about 4 - fold and at term up to 5 - fold .
After delivery , the clearance of vasopressin returns to preconception baseline within two weeks .
Drug Interactions Indomethacin more than doubles the time to offset for vasopressin ’ s effect on peripheral vascular resistance and cardiac output in healthy subjects [ SEE DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
The ganglionic blocking agent tetra - ethylammonium increases the pressor effect of vasopressin by 20 % in healthy subjects [ SEE DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Halothane , morphine , fentanyl , alfentanyl and sufentanyl do not impact exposure to endogenous vasopressin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No formal carcinogenicity or fertility studies with vasopressin have been conducted in animals .
Vasopressin was found to be negative in the in vitro bacterial mutagenicity ( Ames ) test and the in vitro Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell chromosome aberration test .
In mice , vasopressin has been reported to have an effect on function and fertilizing ability of spermatozoa .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology No toxicology studies were conducted with vasopressin .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Increases in systolic and mean blood pressure following administration of vasopressin were observed in 7 studies in septic shock and 8 in post - cardiotomy vasodilatory shock .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Vasopressin injection , USP is a clear , practically colorless solution for intravenous administration available as : NDC 51662 - 1607 - 1 VASOPRESSIN INJECTION , USP 20 UNITS PER mL 1 mL VIAL .
Each vial contains vasopressin 1 mL at 20 units / mL .
NDC 51662 - 1607 - 2 VASOPRESSIN INJECTION , USP 20 UNITS PER mL 1 mL VIAL , IN A POUCH , Each vial contains vasopressin 1 mL at 20 units / mL .
.
Store between 2 ° C and 8 ° C ( 36 ° F and 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Vials may be held up to 12 months upon removal from refrigeration to room temperature storage conditions ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C [ 68 ° F to 77 ° F ] , USP Controlled Room Temperature ) , anytime within the labeled shelf life .
Once removed from refrigeration , unopened vial should be marked to indicate the revised 12 month expiration date .
If the manufacturer ’ s original expiration date is shorter than the revised expiration date , then the shorter date must be used .
Do not use vasopressin injection beyond the manufacturer ’ s expiration date stamped on the vial .
The storage conditions and expiration periods are summarized in the following table .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SPL UNCLASSIFIED HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst 11629 49 th Pl W . Mukilteo , WA 98275 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 51662 - 1607 - 1 VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51662 - 1607 - 1 SERIALIZED LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 51662 - 1607 - 2 POUCH VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51662 - 1607 - 2 POUCH LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] RFID SERIALIZED LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
