Active Ingredient Menthol 5 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints : arthritis simple backache bursitis tendonitis muscle strains muscle sprains bruises and cramps Warnings For external use only When using this product • use only as directed • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device • avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Stop Use and ask your doctor • condition worsens • Redness is present • Irritation develops • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
Do not use on infants .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over : Carefully remove backing from patch .
Apply sticky side of patch to affected area .
Wear one patch up to 8 hours .
Repeat as necessary , but no more than 3 times daily .
Discard patch after single use .
Reseal pouch after opening .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Other information store at room temperature , not to exceed 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) Inactive Ingredients Aloe Vera Extract , Arnica Montana Extract , Boswellia Carterii Resin Extract , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , Diazolidinyl urea , dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , glycerin , green tea extract , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , kaolin , mineral oil , petrolatum , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , povidone , propylene glycol , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , water Questions or Comments 1 - 866 - 326 - 1313 Walgreens Cold Therapy Pain Relief Patch 5 S [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
