1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is a combination of ipratropium bromide ( an anticholinergic agent ) and albuterol sulfate ( a beta2 - adrenergic agonist ) indicated for use in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) on a regular aerosol bronchodilator who continue to have evidence of bronchospasm and who require a second bronchodilator .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Inhalation Spray is a combination of ipratropium bromide ( an anticholinergic agent ) and albuterol sulfate ( a beta2 ‑ adrenergic agonist ) indicated for : • Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) on a regular aerosol bronchodilator who continue to have evidence of bronchospasm and who require a second bronchodilator ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is one inhalation four times a day .
Patients may take additional inhalations as required ; however , the total number of inhalations should not exceed six in 24 hours .
Prior to first use , the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is inserted into the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler and the unit is primed .
When using the unit for the first time , patients are to actuate the inhaler toward the ground until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times .
The unit is then considered primed and ready for use .
If not used for more than 3 days , patients are to actuate the inhaler once to prepare the inhaler for use .
If not used for more than 21 days , patients are to actuate the inhaler until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times to prepare the inhaler for use [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Safety and efficacy of additional doses of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT beyond six inhalations / 24 hours have not been studied .
Also , safety and efficacy of extra doses of ipratropium or albuterol in addition to the recommended doses of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT have not been studied .
For oral inhalation only • One inhalation four times a day , not to exceed six inhalations in 24 hours ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS COMBIVENT RESPIMAT consists of a COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler and an aluminum cylinder ( COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge ) containing a combination of ipratropium bromide ( as the monohydrate ) and albuterol sulfate .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is only intended for use with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
Each actuation from the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler delivers 20 mcg ipratropium bromide ( monohydrate ) and 100 mcg albuterol ( equivalent to 120 mcg albuterol sulfate ) from the mouthpiece .
• Inhalation spray : 20 mcg ipratropium bromide ( monohydrate ) and 100 mcg albuterol ( equivalent to 120 mcg albuterol sulfate ) per actuation with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is contraindicated in the following conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] : • Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in COMBIVENT RESPIMAT • Hypersensitivity to atropine or any of its derivatives • Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to atropine or any of its derivatives ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Paradoxical bronchospasm : Discontinue COMBIVENT RESPIMAT immediately and treat with alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs ( 5 . 1 ) • Patients with cardiovascular system disorders : Use with caution because of beta - adrenergic stimulation ( 5 . 2 ) • Ocular effects : Advise patients to avoid spraying into eyes and to contact a physician if blurred vision , halos , or other visual disturbances occur .
Monitor patients with narrow - angle glaucoma .
( 5 . 3 ) • Urinary retention : Use with caution in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction ( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis : Discontinue COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and institute alternative therapy if immediate hypersensitivity reactions such as urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , or oropharyngeal edema occur ( 5 . 6 ) • Coexisting conditions : Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Paradoxical Bronchospasm COMBIVENT RESPIMAT can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that can be life - threatening .
If it occurs , therapy with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Effects The albuterol sulfate contained in COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , like other beta ‑ adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
If these symptoms occur , COMBIVENT RESPIMAT may need to be discontinued .
There is some evidence from postmarketing data and published literature of rare occurrences of myocardial ischemia associated with albuterol .
In addition , beta ‑ adrenergic agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
Therefore , COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Ocular Effects Ipratropium bromide , a component of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , is an anticholinergic and may increase intraocular pressure .
This may result in precipitation or worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma .
Therefore , COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should be used with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Patients should avoid spraying COMBIVENT RESPIMAT into the eyes .
If a patient sprays COMBIVENT RESPIMAT into their eyes they may cause acute eye pain or discomfort , temporary blurring of vision , mydriasis , visual halos , or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival or corneal congestion .
Advise patients to consult their physician immediately if any of these symptoms develop while using COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
5 . 4 Urinary Retention Ipratropium bromide , a component of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , is an anticholinergic and may cause urinary retention .
Therefore , caution is advised when administering this medication to patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma .
The exact cause of death is unknown , but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema may occur after administration of ipratropium bromide or albuterol sulfate .
In clinical trials and postmarketing experience with ipratropium containing products , hypersensitivity reactions such as skin rash , pruritus , angioedema of tongue , lips and face , urticaria ( including giant urticaria ) , laryngospasm , and anaphylactic reactions have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
If such a reaction occurs , therapy with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should be stopped at once and alternative treatment should be considered [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Coexisting Conditions COMBIVENT RESPIMAT contains albuterol sulfate , a beta2 - adrenergic sympathomimetic amine and , therefore , should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus , and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
5 . 8 Hypokalemia Beta2 ‑ adrenergic agonists may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients ( possibly through intracellular shunting ) which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient , not requiring supplementation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of albuterol , a beta2 - adrenergic agonist , may be associated with the following : • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiovascular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Albuterol is a component of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
Use of ipratropium bromide , an anticholinergic , may result in the following : • Ocular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Ipratropium bromide is a component of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
Most common ( ≥ 2 % ) adverse reactions for COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) are upper respiratory infection , nasopharyngitis , cough , bronchitis , headache , and dyspnea ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience COMBIVENT RESPIMAT 12 - Week Clinical Trials The safety data described in Table 1 below are derived from one 12 - week , randomized , multicenter , double - blind , double - dummy , parallel - group trial that compared COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) , CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) , and ipratropium bromide delivered by the RESPIMAT inhaler ( 20 mcg ) administered four times a day in 1460 adult COPD patients ( 955 males and 505 females ) 40 years of age and older .
Of these patients , 486 were treated with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT group was composed of mostly Caucasian ( 88 . 5 % ) patients with a mean age of 63 . 8 years , and a mean percent predicted FEV1 at screening of 41 . 5 % .
Patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy or bladder - neck obstruction were excluded from the trial .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Table 1 shows all adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of ≥ 2 % in the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT treatment group in the 12 - week COPD trial .
The frequency of the corresponding adverse reactions in the CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol and ipratropium bromide delivered by the RESPIMAT inhaler groups is included for comparison .
The rates are derived from all reported adverse reactions of that type not present at baseline , whether considered drug - related or not by the clinical investigator .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions in ≥ 2 % of Patients in the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Group in a 12 - Week COPD Clinical TrialBody System ( Event ) 12 - Week Ipratropium - Controlled Trial COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) Ipratropium bromide by the RESPIMAT Inhaler ( 20 mcg ) [ n = 486 ] [ n = 491 ] [ n = 483 ] Patients with any adverse reaction 46 52 45 Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders Cough Dyspnea 3 2 2 2 2 3 Nervous system disorders Headache 3 2 3 Infections and infestations Bronchitis Nasopharyngitis Upper Respiratory infection 3 4 3 3 3 4 1 4 3 Adverse reactions that occurred in < 2 % in the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) group observed in this 12 - week trial include : Vascular disorders : hypertension ; Nervous system disorders : dizziness and tremor ; Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorder : muscle spasms and myalgia ; Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea , nausea , dry mouth , constipation , and vomiting ; General disorders and administration site conditions : asthenia , influenza - like illness , and chest discomfort ; Eye disorders : eye pain ; Metabolism and nutritional disorders : hypokalemia ; Cardiac disorders : palpitations and tachycardia ; Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : pruritus and rash ; Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders ; pharyngolaryngeal pain and wheezing .
A separate 12 - week trial evaluated a higher than approved dose of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT in 1118 COPD patients .
Patients were randomized to COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 40 / 200 mcg ) ( n = 345 ) , CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) ( n = 180 ) , ipratropium delivered by the RESPIMAT ( 40 mcg ) ( n = 252 ) or placebo ( n = 341 ) .
The overall incidence and nature of adverse reactions observed were similar to the adverse reactions seen with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT 20 / 100 mcg .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Long - Term ( 48 - week ) Safety Trial Long - term chronic use safety data for COMBIVENT RESPIMAT were obtained from one 48 - week , randomized , multicenter , open - label , parallel - group trial that compared COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) , CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) , and the free combination of ipratropium bromide ( 34 mcg ) and albuterol ( 180 mcg ) HFA inhalation aerosols administered 4 times a day in 465 adult COPD patients ( 273 males and 192 females ) 40 years of age and older .
Of these patients , 157 were treated with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT group was composed of mostly Caucasian ( 93 . 5 % ) patients with a mean age of 62 . 9 years , and a mean percent predicted FEV1 at screening of 47 . 0 % .
An evaluation of the safety data from the trial revealed that most adverse reactions were similar in type and rate between treatment groups .
However , cough occurred more frequently in patients enrolled in the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT group ( 7 . 0 % ) compared to those in the CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 2 . 6 % ) or the free combination of ipratropium bromide and albuterol HFA inhalation aerosols ( 3 . 9 % ) groups .
In addition to the adverse reactions reported in the controlled clinical trial with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , adverse reaction information concerning CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol is derived from two 12 - week controlled clinical trials ( N = 358 for CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ) .
Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients in the CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol treatment group include : bronchitis , upper respiratory tract infection , headache , dyspnea , cough , pain , respiratory disorder , sinusitis , pharyngitis , and nausea .
Adverse reactions reported in < 2 % of patients in the CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol treatment group include : edema , fatigue , hypertension , dizziness , nervousness , tremor , dysphonia , insomnia , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , vomiting , arrhythmia , palpitation , tachycardia , arthralgia , angina , increased sputum , taste perversion , urinary tract infection , dysuria , dry throat , and bronchospasm .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials , the following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol .
Since CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol and COMBIVENT RESPIMAT contain the same active ingredients , one should take into account the fact that the adverse reactions seen with CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol could also occur with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Eye disorders : glaucoma , blurred vision , mydriasis , conjunctival hyperemia , halo vision , accommodation disorder , ocular irritation , and corneal edema Gastrointestinal disorders : gastrointestinal motility disorder , drying of secretions , stomatitis , and mouth edema Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity Investigations : intraocular pressure increased , blood pressure diastolic decreased , and blood pressure systolic increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : muscular weakness Psychiatric disorders : CNS stimulation , mental disorder Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders : throat irritation , paradoxical bronchospasm , wheezing , nasal congestion , and pharyngeal edema Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : angioedema , hyperhidrosis , and skin reaction Urinary disorders : urinary retention Cardiac disorders : myocardial ischemia Allergic - type reactions such as skin reactions including rash , pruritus , and urticaria ( including giant urticaria ) , angioedema including that of tongue , lips and face , laryngospasm , and anaphylactic reaction have also been reported with CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol , with positive re - challenge in some cases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
In a 5 - year placebo - controlled trial , hospitalizations for supraventricular tachycardia and / or atrial fibrillation occurred with an incidence rate of 0 . 5 % in COPD patients receiving CFC - propelled ATROVENT ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Inhalation Aerosol .
Metabolic acidosis has been reported with use of albuterol - containing products .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS COMBIVENT RESPIMAT has been used concomitantly with other drugs , including beta - adrenergic bronchodilators , methylxanthines , and oral and inhaled steroids , commonly used in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
There are no formal studies fully evaluating the interaction effects of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and these drugs with respect to safety and effectiveness .
• Anticholinergics : May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Avoid administration of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT with other anticholinergic - containing drugs ( 7 . 1 ) • Beta - adrenergic agonists : May increase the risk of adverse cardiovascular effects .
Avoid coadministration of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and other sympathomimetic agents ( 7 . 2 ) • Beta - blockers : Inhibit the effect of albuterol .
Consider alternative therapy in patients with hyperreactive airways ( 7 . 3 ) • Diuretics : Electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia associated with diuretics may worsen with concomitant use of beta - agonists .
Consider monitoring potassium levels .
( 7 . 4 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOs ) or tricyclic antidepressants : May potentiate effect of albuterol on the vascular system .
Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAOs or tricyclic antidepressants .
( 7 . 5 ) 7 . 1 Anticholinergic Agents There is the potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Therefore , avoid coadministration of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT with other anticholinergic - containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Beta ‑ adrenergic Agonists Caution is advised in the coadministration of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and other sympathomimetic agents due to the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 3 Beta - receptor Blocking Agents Beta - receptor blocking agents and albuterol inhibit the effect of each other .
Beta - receptor blocking agents should be used with caution in patients with hyperreactive airways .
7 . 4 Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of non ‑ potassium sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta2 - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta2 - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonist ‑ containing drugs , such as COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , with non ‑ potassium sparing diuretics .
Consider monitoring potassium levels .
7 . 5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated .
Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAOs or tricyclic antidepressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no randomized clinical studies of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , or its individual components , ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate , in pregnant women .
Ipratropium is negligibly absorbed systemically following oral inhalation ; therefore , maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Published literature , including cohort studies , case control studies and case series , over several decades have not identified a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with ipratropium bromide .
Available data from published epidemiological studies and postmarketing case reports of pregnancy outcomes following inhaled albuterol use do not consistently demonstrate a risk of major birth defects or , miscarriage .
There are clinical considerations with the use of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT in pregnant women [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , however , animal studies are available with its individual components , ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate .
Based on oral reproduction studies , no evidence of structural alterations was observed when ipratropium bromide was administered to pregnant mice , rats , and rabbits during organogenesis at doses approximately 340 , 68 , 000 and 17 , 000 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) in adults on a mg / m2 basis .
When albuterol was administered to pregnant mice during organogenesis there was evidence of cleft palate at doses approximately equivalent to the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Consideration Labor or Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT for the treatment of COPD during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Serious adverse reactions , including pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta2 - agonists , including albuterol .
Data Animal Data Ipratropium bromide In animal reproduction studies , oral and inhalation administration of ipratropium bromide to pregnant mice , rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis did not show evidence of fetal structural alterations .
The ipratropium dose in oral studies in mice , rats , and rabbits was up to approximately 340 , 68 , 000 and 17 , 000 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal doses in each species of 10 , 1000 and 125 mg / kg / day , respectively ) .
The ipratropium dose in inhalation studies in rats and rabbits was up to approximately 100 and 240 times , respectively , the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal doses of 1 . 5 and 1 . 8 mg / kg / day , respectively ) .
Embryotoxicity was observed as increased resorption in rats at oral doses approximately 6100 times MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal doses of 90 mg / kg / day and above ) .
This effect is not considered relevant to human use due to the large doses at which it was observed and the difference in route of administration .
Albuterol In a mouse reproduction study , subcutaneously administered albuterol sulfate produced cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at a dose approximately equivalent to the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 0 . 25 mg / kg / day ) and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at approximately 14 times the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ) .
Similar effects were not observed at approximately less than MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg / day ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated with 2 . 5 mg / kg / day isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
In a rabbit reproductive study , orally administered albuterol sulfate induced cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses at approximately 1100 times the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 50 mg / kg / day ) .
In a rat reproduction study , an albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation administered by inhalation did not produce any teratogenic effects at exposures approximately 80 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 10 . 5 mg / kg ) .
A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabeled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material is transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , or its components , ipratropium bromide or albuterol , in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Although lipid - insoluble quaternary cations pass into breast milk , ipratropium concentrations in plasma after inhaled therapeutic doses are low .
Similarly , plasma levels of albuterol after inhaled therapeutic doses are low in humans .
Therefore , ipratropium and albuterol concentrations in human breast milk are likely to be correspondingly low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for albuterol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from albuterol or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT in pediatric patients have not been established .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is indicated for use in patients with COPD on a regular aerosol bronchodilator who continue to have evidence of bronchospasm and who require a second bronchodilator .
This disease does not normally occur in children .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the 12 - week trial in COPD , 48 % of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT clinical trial patients were 65 years of age or over .
In general , there were no marked differences between the proportion of patients with adverse reactions for the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol treated patients .
Cardiac and lower respiratory disorders occurred less frequently in the patients under the age of 65 and were balanced across treatment groups .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed among treatment groups .
Based on available data , no adjustment of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT dosage in geriatric patients is warranted .
10 OVERDOSAGE The effects of overdosage are expected to be related primarily to albuterol sulfate .
Acute overdosage with ipratropium bromide by inhalation is unlikely since ipratropium bromide is not well absorbed systemically after inhalation or oral administration .
Manifestations of overdosage with albuterol may include anginal pain , hypertension , hypokalemia , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , metabolic acidosis , and exaggeration of the pharmacologic effects listed in the Adverse Reactions section [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
As with all beta2 - adrenergic agonist aerosol medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse .
Treatment of overdosage consists of discontinuation of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT together with institution of appropriate medical and supportive therapy .
Dialysis is not appropriate treatment for overdosage of albuterol as an inhalation aerosol ; the judicious use of a cardiovascular beta ‑ receptor blocker , such as metoprolol tartrate , may be indicated .
11 DESCRIPTION COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is a combination of ipratropium bromide ( as the monohydrate ) and albuterol sulfate .
Ipratropium bromide is an anticholinergic bronchodilator chemically described as 8 - azoniabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] octane , 3 - ( 3 - hydroxy - 1 - oxo - 2 - phenylpropoxy ) - 8 - methyl - 8 - ( 1 - methylethyl ) - , bromide monohydrate , ( 3 - endo , 8 - syn ) - : a synthetic quaternary ammonium compound chemically related to atropine .
Ipratropium bromide is a white to off - white crystalline substance , freely soluble in water and methanol , sparingly soluble in ethanol , and insoluble in lipophilic solvents such as ether , chloroform , and fluorocarbons .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H30BrNO3 • H2O ipratropium bromide Mol .
Wt .
430 . 4 Albuterol sulfate , chemically known as ( 1 , 3 - benzenedimethanol , α ' - [ [ ( 1 , 1 dimethylethyl ) amino ] methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , ( ± ) - is a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Albuterol is the official generic name in the United States .
The World Health Organization recommended name for the drug is salbutamol .
Albuterol sulfate is a white to off - white crystalline powder , freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol , chloroform , and ether .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( C13H21NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 albuterol sulfate Mol .
Wt .
576 . 7 The drug product , COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , is composed of a sterile , aqueous solution of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate filled into a 4 . 5 mL plastic container crimped into an aluminum cylinder ( COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge ) for use with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
Excipients include water for injection , benzalkonium chloride , edetate disodium , and hydrochloric acid .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is only intended for use with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler is a hand held , pocket sized oral inhalation device that uses mechanical energy to generate a slow moving aerosol cloud of medication from a metered volume of the drug solution .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler has an orange - colored cap .
When used with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler , each cartridge containing 4 grams of a sterile aqueous solution delivers the labeled number of metered actuations after preparation for use .
Each actuation from the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler delivers 20 mcg ipratropium bromide ( monohydrate ) and 100 mcg albuterol ( equivalent to 120 mcg albuterol sulfate ) in 11 . 4 mcL of solution from the mouthpiece .
As with all inhaled drugs , the actual amount of drug delivered to the lung may depend on patient factors , such as the coordination between the actuation of the inhaler and inspiration through the delivery system .
The duration of inspiration should be at least as long as the spray duration ( 1 . 5 seconds ) .
Prior to first use , the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is inserted into the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler and the unit is primed .
When using the unit for the first time , patients are to actuate the inhaler toward the ground until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times .
The unit is then considered primed and ready for use .
If not used for more than 3 days , patients are to actuate the inhaler once to prepare the inhaler for use .
If not used for more than 21 days , patients are to actuate the inhaler until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times to prepare the inhaler for use [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COMBIVENT RESPIMAT : COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is a combination of the anticholinergic ipratropium bromide and the beta2 - adrenergic agonist albuterol sulfate .
The mechanisms of action described below for the individual components apply to COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
The two classes of medications ( an anticholinergic and a beta2 - adrenergic agonist ) are both bronchodilators .
Simultaneous administration of both an anticholinergic ( ipratropium bromide ) and a beta2 - sympathomimetic ( albuterol sulfate ) is designed to produce a greater bronchodilator effect than when either drug is utilized alone at its recommended dosage .
The efficacy of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is likely to be due to a local effect on the muscarinic and beta2 - adrenergic receptors in the lung .
Ipratropium bromide Ipratropium bromide is an anticholinergic ( parasympatholytic ) agent which , based on animal studies , appears to inhibit vagally mediated reflexes by antagonizing the action of acetylcholine , the transmitter agent released at the neuromuscular junctions in the lung .
Anticholinergics prevent the increases in intracellular concentration of Ca + + which is caused by interaction of acetylcholine with the muscarinic receptors on bronchial smooth muscle .
Albuterol sulfate In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacology studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors on bronchial smooth muscle , recent data indicate that there is a population of beta2 - receptors in the human heart which comprise between 10 % and 50 % of cardiac beta - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors , however , is not yet established [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Activation of beta2 - adrenergic receptors on airway smooth muscle leads to the activation of adenylyl cyclase and to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
This increase of cyclic AMP leads to the activation of protein kinase , which inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations , resulting in relaxation .
Albuterol relaxes the smooth muscles of all airways , from the trachea to the terminal bronchioles .
Albuterol acts as a functional antagonist to relax the airway irrespective of the spasmogen involved , thus protecting against all bronchoconstrictor challenges .
Increased cyclic AMP concentrations are also associated with the inhibition of release of mediators from mast cells in the airway .
Albuterol has been shown in most clinical trials to have more bronchial smooth muscle relaxation effect than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
However , all beta ‑ adrenergic agonist drugs , including albuterol sulfate , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Ipratropium bromide Cardiovascular effects At recommended doses , ipratropium bromide does not produce clinically significant changes in pulse rate or blood pressure .
Ocular effects In studies without a positive control , ipratropium bromide did not alter pupil size , accommodation , or visual acuity .
Mucociliary clearance and respiratory secretions Controlled clinical studies have demonstrated that ipratropium bromide does not alter either mucociliary clearance or the volume or viscosity of respiratory secretions .
Albuterol sulfate Cardiovascular effects Controlled clinical trials and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Ipratropium bromide Ipratropium bromide is a quaternary amine and hence , it is not readily absorbed into the systemic circulation either from the surface of the lung or from the gastrointestinal tract as confirmed by blood level and renal excretion studies .
The half - life of elimination is about 2 hours after inhalation or intravenous administration .
Ipratropium bromide is minimally bound ( 0 % to 9 % in vitro ) to plasma albumin and α1 - acid glycoprotein .
It is partially metabolized to inactive ester hydrolysis products .
Following intravenous administration , approximately one - half of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Albuterol sulfate Albuterol is longer acting than isoproterenol in most patients because it is not a substrate for the cellular uptake processes for catecholamines , nor for metabolism by catechol - O - methyl transferase .
Instead , the drug is conjugatively metabolized to albuterol 4 ' - O - sulfate .
Intravenous pharmacokinetics of albuterol was studied in a comparable group of 16 healthy male volunteers ; the mean terminal half - life following a 30 - minute infusion of 1 . 5 mg was 3 . 9 hours , with a mean clearance of 439 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Inhalation Spray In a 12 - week randomized , multicenter , double - blind , double - dummy parallel group trial , 108 US patients with COPD receiving either COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) or CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) four times daily participated in pharmacokinetic evaluations .
Plasma ipratropium concentrations were low with an average peak plasma concentration of 33 . 5 pg / mL from COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
The majority of the study participants exhibited levels below the lower limit of quantitation ( < 10 pg / mL ) by 4 to 6 hours following dosing .
The steady state systemic exposure obtained for ipratropium bromide following COMBIVENT RESPIMAT was comparable to that of CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol .
Ipratropium plasma AUC and total amount of drug excreted unchanged in urine ( Ae ) ratios for COMBIVENT RESPIMAT / CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol were 1 . 04 and 1 . 18 , respectively .
For albuterol the steady state systemic exposure was less from COMBIVENT RESPIMAT compared to that of CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol .
Albuterol plasma AUC and urine Ae ratios for COMBIVENT RESPIMAT / CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol were 0 . 74 and 0 . 86 , respectively .
Pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction between ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate was evaluated in a crossover study in 12 healthy male volunteers who received CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol and the two active components separately as individual treatments .
Results from this study indicated that the coadministration of these two components from a single canister did not significantly alter the systemic absorption of either component , indicating lack of any pharmacokinetic interaction between these two drugs .
Specific Populations Age Consistent with CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) , patients receiving COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) aged 65 years and over had higher steady state systemic exposures than patients aged under 65 years for both ipratropium ( AUC = 166 vs . 105 pg • hr / mL , Cmax = 38 . 5 vs . 30 . 1 pg / mL ) and albuterol ( AUC = 5 . 44 vs . 3 . 27 ng • hr / mL , Cmax = 1 . 19 vs . 0 . 74 ng / mL ) .
Gender The AUC and Cmax values for ipratropium were 131 pg . hr / mL and 35 . 4 pg / mL in males and 123 pg . hr / mL and 31 . 7 pg / mL in females , respectively .
The AUC - and Cmax - values for albuterol were 4 . 0 ng • hr / mL and 0 . 89 ng / mL in males and 4 . 2 ng • hr / mL and 0 . 93 ng / mL in females , respectively .
Hepatic and Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT or ipratropium bromide has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal insufficiency .
Drug - Drug Interactions No specific pharmacokinetic studies were conducted to evaluate potential drug - drug interactions with other medications .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ipratropium bromide Two - year oral carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice have revealed no carcinogenic activity at doses up to 6 mg / kg / day ( approximately 400 and 200 times the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose of ipratropium bromide ( MRHDID ) in adults on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) .
Results of various mutagenicity / clastogenicity studies ( Ames test , mouse dominant lethal test , mouse micronucleus test , and chromosome aberration of bone marrow in Chinese hamsters ) were negative .
Fertility of male or female rats at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3400 times the MRHDID in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) was unaffected by ipratropium bromide administration .
At an oral dose of 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 34 , 000 times the MRHDID in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) , ipratropium bromide produced a decrease in the conception rate .
Albuterol Like other agents in its class , albuterol caused a significant dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium in a 2 - year study in the rat at dietary doses of 2 , 10 , and 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 20 , 110 , and 560 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol .
The relevance of these findings to humans is not known .
An 18 - month study in mice at dietary doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2800 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) and a 99 - week study in hamsters at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 470 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) revealed no evidence of tumorigenicity .
Studies with albuterol revealed no evidence of mutagenesis .
Reproduction studies in rats with albuterol sulfate revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Preclinical : Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines were administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) was evaluated in COPD patients in one randomized , double - blind , double - dummy parallel group trial .
This was a 12 - week trial in a total of 1460 adult patients ( 955 males and 505 females ) conducted to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) in COPD .
All patients were required to have a clinical diagnosis of COPD , be at least 40 years of age or older , to have an FEV1 of less than or equal to 65 % predicted and an FEV1 / FVC ratio of less than or equal to 0 . 7 at screening , and a smoking history of greater than 10 pack - years prior to entering the trial .
Patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , or bladder neck obstruction were excluded from the trial .
The majority of the patients ( 89 % ) were Caucasian , had a mean age of 64 years , a mean percent predicted pre - bronchodilator FEV1 of 41 % and FEV1 / FVC ratio of 0 . 45 .
The patients were randomized to one of the following active treatments COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) ( n = 486 ) , CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) ( n = 491 ) , and ipratropium bromide delivered by the RESPIMAT ( 20 mcg ) ( n = 483 ) administered four times a day .
Data from 1424 patients were used in the efficacy analyses .
There were three primary efficacy variables : ( i ) Mean FEV1 over 0 to 6 hours post - dose defined as the AUC of the change from test - day baseline in FEV1 over 0 to 6 hours post - dose divided by 6 hours ( FEV1 AUC0 - 6 h ) ; ( ii ) Mean FEV1 over 0 to 4 hours post - dose defined as the AUC of the change from test - day baseline in FEV1 over 0 to 4 hours post - dose divided by 4 hours ( FEV1 AUC0 - 4 h ) , and ( iii ) Mean FEV1 over 4 to 6 hours post - dose defined as the AUC of the change from test - day baseline in FEV1 over 4 to 6 hours post - dose divided by 2 hours ( FEV1 AUC4 - 6 h ) .
Test - day baseline was the FEV1 recorded prior to inhaling the dose of randomized treatment on test day .
The three primary efficacy comparisons were : ( i ) Non - inferiority of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) to CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) for the FEV1 AUC0 - 6 h on Test Day 85 ; ( ii ) Superiority of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) to ipratropium RESPIMAT ( 20 mcg ) for the FEV1 AUC0 - 4 h on Test Day 85 , to demonstrate the contribution of albuterol in the combination product , and ( iii ) Non - inferiority of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) in comparison to ipratropium RESPIMAT ( 20 mcg ) for FEV1 AUC4 - 6 h on Test Day 85 , to demonstrate the contribution of ipratropium in the combination product .
Non - inferiority was declared if the lower bound of the 95 % confidence interval for the point estimate for the difference of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT minus the comparator was more than - 50 mL .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) was shown to be non - inferior to CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) in terms of mean FEV1 AUC0 - 6 h .
The LS mean ( mL ) ( 95 % CI ) of the treatment difference was - 3 ( - 22 , 15 ) .
The FEV1 AUC0 - 4 h for COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) , was superior to that of ipratropium bromide [ LS mean ( mL ) ( 95 % CI ) of the treatment difference was 47 mL ( 28 , 66 ) ] and the mean FEV1 AUC4 - 6 h for COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) was non - inferior to that of ipratropium bromide [ LS mean ( mL ) ( 95 % CI ) of the treatment difference was - 17 ( - 39 , 5 ) ] .
The FEV1 results on Test Days 1 , 29 , 57 , and 85 are shown in Figure 1 .
In this trial , COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) was shown to be clinically comparable ( statistically non - inferior ) to CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) .
Additionally , in this trial , no differences in these efficacy comparisons were identified in males and females or in patients over 65 years of age versus those under 65 years of age .
There were too few African - American subjects to adequately assess differences in effects in that population .
The median time to onset of bronchodilation , defined as an FEV1 increase of 15 % or greater from test - day baseline , for the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 20 / 100 mcg ) group occurred at 13 minutes post - dose on Day 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The means are adjusted for treatment baseline and investigator site .
A separate ANCOVA was fitted for each time point .
The imputation method for data missing because the patient withdrew from the trial was Last Visit Carried Forward .
The imputation method for data missing at the end of test days depends on why the data were missing .
A second study was conducted in 1118 COPD patients using a higher than approved dose of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
Patients were randomized to COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ( 40 / 200 mcg ) ( n = 345 ) , CFC - propelled COMBIVENT Inhalation Aerosol ( 36 / 206 mcg ) ( n = 180 ) , ipratropium delivered by the RESPIMAT ( 40 mcg ) ( n = 252 ) or placebo ( n = 341 ) .
The study was supportive , particularly for safety [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Inhalation Spray is supplied in a carton containing one COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge and one COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is provided as an aluminum cylinder with a tamper protection seal on the cap .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is only intended for use with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler is a cylindrical shaped plastic inhalation device with a gray colored body and a clear base .
The clear base is removed to insert the cartridge .
The inhaler contains a dose indicator .
The orange - colored cap and the written information on the label of the gray inhaler body indicate that it is labeled for use with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Inhalation Spray is available as : COMBIVENT RESPIMAT Inhalation Spray : 120 metered actuations ( NDC 0597 - 0024 - 02 ) ) The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge has a net fill weight of 4 grams and when used with the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler , is designed to deliver the labeled number of metered actuations after preparation for use .
Each actuation from the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler delivers 20 mcg ipratropium bromide ( monohydrate ) and 100 mcg albuterol ( equivalent to 120 mcg albuterol sulfate ) from the mouthpiece .
When the labeled number of metered actuations has been dispensed from the inhaler , the RESPIMAT locking mechanism will be engaged and no more actuations can be dispensed .
After assembly , the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler should be discarded at the latest 3 months after first use or when the locking mechanism is engaged , whichever comes first .
Keep out of reach of children .
Do not spray into eyes .
Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Paradoxical Bronchospasm Inform patients that COMBIVENT RESPIMAT can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that can be life - threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , patients should discontinue using COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
Ocular Effects Caution patients to avoid spraying the aerosol into their eyes and advise that this may result in precipitation or worsening of narrow ‑ angle glaucoma , mydriasis , increased intraocular pressure , acute eye pain or discomfort , temporary blurring of vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival and corneal congestion .
Patients should also be advised that should any combination of these symptoms develop , they should consult their physician immediately .
Since dizziness , accommodation disorder , mydriasis , and blurred vision may occur with use of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , patients should be cautioned about engaging in activities requiring balance and visual acuity such as driving a car or operating appliances or machinery .
Urinary Retention Inform patients that COMBIVENT RESPIMAT may cause urinary retention and advise them to consult their physician if they experience difficulty with urination .
Adverse Effects Associated with Beta2 - agonists Inform patients of adverse effects associated with beta2 - agonists , such as palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Frequency of Use The action of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should last 4 to 5 hours or longer .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Safety and efficacy of additional doses of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT beyond six inhalations in 24 hours have not been studied .
Patients should be told not to increase the dose or frequency of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT without consulting a physician .
Patients should be instructed that if they find that treatment with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , their symptoms become worse , and / or they need to use the product more frequently than usual , medical attention should be sought immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema , may occur after the administration of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
Advise patients to immediately discontinue COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and consult a physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Concomitant Drug Use Remind patients that while taking COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , other inhaled drugs should be taken only as directed by a physician [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Patients who are pregnant or nursing should contact their physician about the use of COMBIVENT RESPIMAT [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 ) ] .
Preparation for Use and Priming Instruct patients that priming COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is essential to ensure appropriate content of the medication in each actuation .
When using the unit for the first time , the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge is inserted into the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler and the unit is primed .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT patients are to actuate the inhaler toward the ground until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times .
The unit is then considered primed and ready for use .
If not used for more than 3 days , patients are to actuate the inhaler once to prepare the inhaler for use .
If not used for more than 21 days , patients are to actuate the inhaler until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times to prepare the inhaler for use .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH RESPIMAT ® is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH COMBIVENT ® is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2021 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL10574AL132021 SPL10595A Instructions for Use COMBIVENT ® RESPIMAT ® ( COM beh vent - RES peh mat ) ( ipratropium bromide and albuterol inhalation spray ) For Oral Inhalation Only Do not spray COMBIVENT RESPIMAT into your eyes .
Read these Instructions for Use before you start using COMBIVENT RESPIMAT and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Use COMBIVENT RESPIMAT exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Do not change your dose or how often you use COMBIVENT RESPIMAT without talking with your doctor .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take .
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT may affect the way some medicines work and some other medicines may affect the way COMBIVENT RESPIMAT works .
Do not use other inhaled medicines with COMBIVENT RESPIMAT without talking to your doctor .
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler has a slow moving mist that helps you inhale the medicine .
Do not turn the clear base before inserting the cartridge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to store your COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler • Store COMBIVENT RESPIMAT at room temperature 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge and inhaler .
• If COMBIVENT RESPIMAT has not been used for more than 3 days , release 1 puff towards the ground .
• If COMBIVENT RESPIMAT has not been used for more than 21 days , repeat steps 4 to 6 under the “ Prepare for first use ” until a mist is visible .
Then repeat steps 4 to 6 three more times .
• Keep your COMBIVENT RESPIMAT cartridge and inhaler out of the reach of children .
How to care for your COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler Clean the mouthpiece , including the metal part inside the mouthpiece , with a damp cloth or tissue only , at least once a week .
Any minor discoloration in the mouthpiece does not affect your COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
When to get a new COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler • Your inhaler contains 120 puffs ( 120 doses ) ; or if you have a sample , your inhaler contains 60 puffs ( 60 doses ) instead .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • The dose indicator shows approximately how much medicine is left .
• When the dose indicator enters the red area of the scale you need to get a refill ; there is approximately medicine for 7 days left ( if you have a sample , there is approximately medicine for 3 days left ) .
• When the dose indicator reaches the end of the red scale , your COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is empty and automatically locks .
At this point , the clear base cannot be turned any further .
• Three months after insertion of cartridge , throw away the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT even if it has not been used , or when the inhaler is locked , or when it expires , whichever comes first .
Prepare for first use 1 .
Remove clear base • Keep the cap closed .
• Press the safety catch while firmly pulling off the clear base with your other hand .
Be careful not to touch the piercing element .
• Write the discard by date on the label ( 3 months from the date the cartridge is inserted ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Insert cartridge • Insert the narrow end of the cartridge into the inhaler .
• Place the inhaler on a firm surface and push down firmly until it clicks into place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Replace clear base • Put the clear base back into place until it clicks .
• Do not remove the clear base or the cartridge after it has been put together .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Turn • Keep the cap closed .
• Turn the clear base in the direction of the arrows on the label until it clicks ( half a turn ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Open • Open the cap until it snaps fully open .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 .
Press • Point the inhaler toward the ground .
• Press the dose - release button .
• Close the cap .
• If you do not see a mist , repeat steps 4 to 6 until a mist is seen .
• After a mist is seen , repeat steps 4 to 6 three more times .
• After complete preparation of your inhaler , it will be ready to deliver the number of puffs on the label .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Daily use ( T O P ) Turn • Keep the cap closed .
• Turn the clear base in the direction of the arrows on the label until it clicks ( half a turn ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Open • Open the cap until it snaps fully open .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Press • Breathe out slowly and fully .
• Close your lips around the mouthpiece without covering the air vents .
• Point the inhaler to the back of your throat .
• While taking a slow , deep breath through your mouth , Press the dose - release button and continue to breathe in .
• Hold your breath for 10 seconds or for as long as comfortable .
• Close the cap until you use your inhaler again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Answers to Common Questions It is difficult to insert the cartridge deep enough : Did you accidentally turn the clear base before inserting the cartridge ?
Open the cap , press the dose - release button , then insert the cartridge .
Did you insert the cartridge with the wide end first ?
Insert the cartridge with the narrow end first .
I cannot press the dose - release button : Did you turn the clear base ?
If not , turn the clear base in a continuous movement until it clicks ( half a turn ) .
Is the dose indicator on the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT pointing to zero ?
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler is locked after 120 puffs ( 120 doses ) .
If you have a sample , the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler is locked after 60 puffs ( 60 doses ) .
Prepare and use your new COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
I cannot turn the clear base : Did you turn the clear base already ?
If the clear base has already been turned , follow steps “ Open ” and “ Press ” under “ Daily use ” to get your medicine .
Is the dose indicator on the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT pointing to zero ?
The COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler is locked after 120 puffs ( 120 doses ) .
If you have a sample , the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler is locked after 60 puffs ( 60 doses ) .
Prepare and use your new COMBIVENT RESPIMAT inhaler .
The dose indicator on the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT reaches zero too soon : Did you use COMBIVENT RESPIMAT as indicated ( 1 puff four times daily ) ?
COMBIVENT RESPIMAT will deliver 120 puffs and last 30 days if used at 1 puff four times daily .
If you have a sample , COMBIVENT RESPIMAT will deliver 60 puffs and last 15 days if used at 1 puff four times daily .
Did you turn the clear base before you inserted the cartridge ?
The dose indicator counts each turn of the clear base regardless whether a cartridge has been inserted or not .
Did you spray in the air often to check whether the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT is working ?
Once you have prepared COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , no test - spraying is required if used daily .
Did you insert the cartridge into a used COMBIVENT RESPIMAT ?
Always insert a new cartridge into a NEW COMBIVENT RESPIMAT .
My COMBIVENT RESPIMAT sprays automatically : Was the cap open when you turned the clear base ?
Close the cap , then turn the clear base .
Did you press the dose - release button when turning the clear base ?
Close the cap , so the dose - release button is covered , then turn the clear base .
Did you stop when turning the clear base before it clicked ?
Turn the clear base in a continuous movement until it clicks ( half a turn ) .
My COMBIVENT RESPIMAT doesn ’ t spray : Did you insert a cartridge ?
If not , insert a cartridge .
Did you repeat Turn , Open , Press ( TOP ) less than three times after inserting the cartridge ?
Repeat Turn , Open , Press ( TOP ) three times after inserting the cartridge as shown in steps 4 to 6 under “ Prepare for first use ” .
Is the dose indicator on the COMBIVENT RESPIMAT pointing to 0 ( zero ) ?
You have used up all your medicine and the inhaler is locked .
For more information about COMBIVENT RESPIMAT including current prescribing information or a video demonstration on how to use COMBIVENT RESPIMAT , go to www . combivent . com , scan the code , or call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH RESPIMAT ® is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH COMBIVENT ® is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2021 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Revised : December 2021 COL10574AL132021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mcg / 100 mcg Carton NDC 0597 - 0024 - 02 Combivent ® Respimat ® ( ipratropium bromide and albuterol inhalation spray ) 20 mcg / 100 mcg per actuation * FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Rx only 4 Grams 120 Metered Doses Boehringer Ingelheim [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
