Section from Carton Label Follows : Active ingredient Purpose Benzoyl Peroxide , 10 % ...............................
Acne Treatment Uses - Treats acne - dries up acne pimples - helps prevent new acne pimples Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication - cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily - because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor - if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application too once a day or every other day Other Information - keep tightly closed .
Avoid storing at extreme temperature - below 4 degrees C or above 37 degrees C ( below 40 degrees F or above 100 degrees F ) - lot no .
and exp .
date , see product container or box Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Warnings For external use only .
Do not use - on broken skin - on large areas of the body - if you have very sensitive skin or if you are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product - apply to the affected area only - avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen - this product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics - using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor - keep away from eyes , lips , mouth and sensitive areas of the neck Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication - cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily - because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor - if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application too once a day or every other day Inactive Ingredients carbomer , diethylhexyl sodium sulfosuccinate , disodium EDTA , purified water , sodium hydroxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
