DESCRIPTION Penicillamine is 3 - mercapto - D - valine , a disease modifying antirheumatic drug .
It is a white or practically white , crystalline powder , freely soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol , and insoluble in ether , acetone , benzene , and carbon tetrachloride .
Although its configuration is D , it is levorotatory as usually measured : [ α ] 25 ° = - 62 . 5 ° ± 2 . 0 ° ( C = 1 , 1 NNaOH ) D The empirical formula is C5H11NO2S , giving it a molecular weight of 149 . 21 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It reacts readily with formaldehyde or acetone to form a thiazolidine - carboxylic acid .
Penicillamine tablets , USP ( Titratable Tablets ) for oral administration contain 250 mg of penicillamine .
Other ingredients ( inactive ) : anhydrous lactose , copovidone , corn starch ( maize ) , edetate disodium dihydrate , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , magnesium trisilicate , polyethylene glycol , povidone and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Penicillamine is a chelating agent recommended for the removal of excess copper in patients with Wilson ’ s disease .
From in vitro studies which indicate that one atom of copper combines with two molecules of penicillamine , it would appear that one gram of penicillamine should be followed by the excretion of about 200 milligrams of copper ; however , the actual amount excreted is about one percent of this .
Penicillamine also reduces excess cystine excretion in cystinuria .
This is done , at least in part , by disulfide interchange between penicillamine and cystine , resulting in formation of penicillamine - cysteine disulfide , a substance that is much more soluble than cystine and is excreted readily .
Penicillamine interferes with the formation of cross - links between tropocollagen molecules and cleaves them when newly formed .
The mechanism of action of penicillamine in rheumatoid arthritis is unknown , although it appears to suppress disease activity .
Unlike cytotoxic immunosuppressants , penicillamine markedly lowers IgM rheumatoid factor but produces no significant depression in absolute levels of serum immunoglobulins .
Also unlike cytotoxic immunosuppressants , which act on both , penicillamine in vitro depresses T - cell activity but not B - cell activity .
In vitro , penicillamine dissociates macroglobulins ( rheumatoid factor ) although the relationship of the activity to its effect in rheumatoid arthritis is not known .
In rheumatoid arthritis , the onset of therapeutic response to penicillamine may not be seen for two or three months .
In those patients who respond , however , the first evidence of suppression of symptoms such as pain , tenderness , and swelling usually is generally apparent within three months .
The optimum duration of therapy has not been determined .
If remissions occur , they may last from months to years but usually require continued treatment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In all patients receiving penicillamine , it is important that penicillamine be given on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals , and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food or milk .
This permits maximum absorption and reduces the likelihood of inactivation by metal binding in the gastrointestinal tract .
Methodology for determining the bioavailability of penicillamine is not available ; however , penicillamine is known to be a very soluble substance .
INDICATIONS Penicillamine tablets are indicated in the treatment of Wilson ’ s disease , cystinuria , and in patients with severe , active rheumatoid arthritis who have failed to respond to an adequate trial of conventional therapy .
Available evidence suggests that penicillamine tablets are not of value in ankylosing spondylitis .
Wilson ’ s Disease - Wilson ’ s disease ( hepatolenticular degeneration ) results from the interaction of an inherited defect and an abnormality in copper metabolism .
The metabolic defect , which is the consequence of the autosomal inheritance of one abnormal gene from each parent , manifests itself in a greater positive copper balance than normal .
As a result , copper is deposited in several organs and appears eventually to produce pathologic effects most prominently seen in the brain , where degeneration is widespread ; in the liver , where fatty infiltration , inflammation , and hepatocellular damage progress to postnecrotic cirrhosis ; in the kidney , where tubular and glomerular dysfunction results ; and in the eye , where characteristic corneal copper deposits are known as Kayser - Fleischer rings .
Two types of patients require treatment for Wilson ’ s disease : ( 1 ) the symptomatic , and ( 2 ) the asymptomatic in whom it can be assumed the disease will develop in the future if the patient is not treated .
Diagnosis , suspected on the basis of family or individual history , physical examination , or a low serum concentration of ceruloplasmin * , is confirmed by the demonstration of Kayser - Fleischer rings or , particularly in the asymptomatic patient , by the quantitative demonstration in a liver biopsy specimen of a concentration of copper in excess of 250 mcg / g dry weight .
Treatment has two objectives : ( 1 ) to minimize dietary intake and absorption of copper .
( 2 ) to promote excretion of copper deposited in tissues .
The first objective is attained by a daily diet that contains no more than one or two milligrams of copper .
Such a diet should exclude , most importantly , chocolate , nuts , shellfish , mushrooms , liver , molasses , broccoli , and cereals enriched with copper , and be composed to as great an extent as possible of foods with a low copper content .
Distilled or demineralized water should be used if the patient ’ s drinking water contains more than 0 . 1 mg of copper per liter .
For the second objective , a copper chelating agent is used .
In symptomatic patients , this treatment usually produces marked neurologic improvement , fading of Kayser - Fleischer rings , and gradual amelioration of hepatic dysfunction and psychic disturbances .
Clinical experience to date suggests that life is prolonged with the above regimen .
Noticeable improvement may not occur for one to three months .
Occasionally , neurologic symptoms become worse during initiation of therapy with penicillamine tablets .
Despite this , the drug should not be discontinued permanently .
Although temporary interruption may result in clinical improvement of the neurological symptoms , it carries an increased risk of developing a sensitivity reaction upon resumption of therapy ( See WARNINGS ) .
* For quantitative test for serum ceruloplasmin see : Morell , A . G . ; Windsor , J . ; Sternlieb , I ; Scheinberg , I . H . : Measurement of the concentration of ceruloplasmin in serum by determination of its oxidase activity , in “ Laboratory Diagnosis of Liver Disease , ” F . W . Sunderman ; F . W . Sunderman , Jr . , ( eds . )
, St . Louis , Warren H . Green , Inc . , 1968 , pp . 193 - 195 .
Treatment of asymptomatic patients has been carried out for over ten years .
Symptoms and signs of the disease appear to be prevented indefinitely if daily treatment with penicillamine tablets can be continued .
Cystinuria - Cystinuria is characterized by excessive urinary excretion of the dibasic amino acids , arginine , lysine , ornithine , and cystine , and the mixed disulfide of cysteine and homocysteine .
The metabolic defect that leads to cystinuria is inherited as an autosomal , recessive trait .
Metabolism of the affected amino acids is influenced by at least two abnormal factors : ( 1 ) defective gastrointestinal absorption and ( 2 ) renal tubular dysfunction .
Arginine , lysine , ornithine , and cysteine are soluble substances , readily excreted .
There is no apparent pathology connected with their excretion in excessive quantities .
Cystine , however , is so slightly soluble at the usual range of urinary pH that it is not excreted readily , and so crystallizes and forms stones in the urinary tract .
Stone formation is the only known pathology in cystinuria .
Normal daily output of cystine is 40 to 80 mg .
In cystinuria , output is greatly increased and may exceed 1 g / day .
At 500 to 600 mg / day , stone formation is almost certain .
When it is more than 300 mg / day , treatment is indicated .
Conventional treatment is directed at keeping urinary cystine diluted enough to prevent stone formation , keeping the urine alkaline enough to dissolve as much cystine as possible , and minimizing cystine production by a diet low in methionine ( the major dietary precursor of cystine ) .
Patients must drink enough fluid to keep urine specific gravity below 1 . 010 , take enough alkali to keep urinary pH at 7 . 5 to 8 , and maintain a diet low in methionine .
This diet is not recommended in growing children and probably is contraindicated in pregnancy because of its low protein content ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
When these measures are inadequate to control recurrent stone formation , penicillamine tablets may be used as additional therapy .
When patients refuse to adhere to conventional treatment , penicillamine tablets may be a useful substitute .
It is capable of keeping cystine excretion to near normal values , thereby hindering stone formation and the serious consequences of pyelonephritis and impaired renal function that develop in some patients .
Bartter and colleagues depict the process by which penicillamine interacts with cystine to form penicillamine - cysteine mixed disulfide as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CSSC = cystine CS ' = deprotonated cysteine PSSP = penicillamine PS ' = deprotonated penicillamine sulfhydryl CSSP = penicillamine - cysteine mixed disulphide In this process , it is assumed that the deprotonated form of penicillamine , PS ' , is the active factor in bringing about the disulfide interchange .
Rheumatoid Arthritis - Because penicillamine tablets can cause severe adverse reactions , its use in rheumatoid arthritis should be restricted to patients who have severe , active disease and who have failed to respond to an adequate trial of conventional therapy .
Even then , benefit - to - risk ratio should be carefully considered .
Other measures , such as rest , physiotherapy , salicylates , and corticosteroids should be used , when indicated , in conjunction with penicillamine tablets ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Except for treatment of Wilson ’ s disease or certain cases of cystinuria , use of penicillamine during pregnancy is contraindicated ( See WARNINGS ) .
Although breast milk studies have not been reported in animals or humans , mothers on therapy with penicillamine should not nurse their infants .
Patients with a history of penicillamine - related aplastic anemia or agranulocytosis should not be restarted on penicillamine ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Because of its potential for causing renal damage , penicillamine should not be administered to rheumatoid arthritis patients with a history or other evidence of renal insufficiency .
WARNINGS The use of penicillamine has been associated with fatalities due to certain diseases , such as aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , Goodpasture ’ s syndrome , and myasthenia gravis .
Because of the potential for serious hematological and renal adverse reactions to occur at any time , routine urinalysis , white and differential blood cell count , hemoglobin determination , and direct platelet count must be done every two weeks for at least the first six months of penicillamine therapy and monthly thereafter .
Patients should be instructed to report promptly the development of signs and symptoms of granulocytopenia and / or thrombocytopenia such as fever , sore throat , chills , bruising , or bleeding .
The above laboratory studies should then be promptly repeated .
Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have been reported to occur in up to five percent of patients during penicillamine therapy .
Leukopenia is of the granulocytic series and may or may not be associated with an increase in eosinophils .
A confirmed reduction in WBC below 3500 per cubic mL mandates discontinuance of penicillamine therapy .
Thrombocytopenia may be on an idiosyncratic basis with decreased or absent megakaryocytes in the marrow , when it is part of an aplastic anemia .
In other cases the thrombocytopenia is presumably on an immune basis since the number of megakaryocytes in the marrow has been reported to be normal or sometimes increased .
The development of a platelet count below 100 , 000 per cubic mL , even in the absence of clinical bleeding , requires at least temporary cessation of penicillamine therapy .
A progressive fall in either platelet count or WBC in three successive determinations , even though values are still within the normal range , likewise requires at least temporary cessation .
Proteinuria and / or hematuria may develop during therapy and may be warning signs of membranous glomerulopathy which can progress to a nephrotic syndrome .
Close observation of these patients is essential .
In some patients the proteinuria disappears with continued therapy ; in others penicillamine must be discontinued .
When a patient develops proteinuria or hematuria the physician must ascertain whether it is a sign of drug - induced glomerulopathy or is unrelated to penicillamine .
Rheumatoid arthritis patients who develop moderate degrees of proteinuria may be continued cautiously on penicillamine therapy , provided that quantitative 24 - hour urinary protein determinations are obtained at intervals of one to two weeks .
Penicillamine dosage should not be increased under these circumstances .
Proteinuria which exceeds 1 g / 24 hours , or proteinuria which is progressively increasing requires either discontinuance of the drug or a reduction in the dosage .
In some patients , proteinuria has been reported to clear following reduction in dosage .
In rheumatoid arthritis patients , penicillamine should be discontinued if unexplained gross hematuria or persistent microscopic hematuria develops .
In patients with Wilson ’ s disease or cystinuria the risks of continued penicillamine therapy in patients manifesting potentially serious urinary abnormalities must be weighed against the expected therapeutic benefits .
When penicillamine is used in cystinuria , an annual x - ray for renal stones is advised .
Cystine stones form rapidly , sometimes in six months .
Up to one year or more may be required for any urinary abnormalities to disappear after penicillamine has been discontinued .
Because of rare reports of intrahepatic cholestasis and toxic hepatitis , liver function tests are recommended every six months for the duration of therapy .
Goodpasture ’ s syndrome has occurred rarely .
The development of abnormal urinary findings associated with hemoptysis and pulmonary infiltrates on x - ray requires immediate cessation of penicillamine .
Obliterative bronchiolitis has been reported rarely .
The patient should be cautioned to report immediately pulmonary symptoms such as exertional dyspnea , unexplained cough , or wheezing .
Pulmonary function studies should be considered at that time .
Myasthenic syndrome sometimes progressing to myasthenia gravis has been reported .
Ptosis and diplopia , with weakness of the extraocular muscles , are often early signs of myasthenia .
In the majority of cases , symptoms of myasthenia have receded after withdrawal of penicillamine .
Most of the various forms of pemphigus have occurred during treatment with penicillamine .
Pemphigus vulgaris and pemphigus foliaceus are reported most frequently , usually as a late complication of therapy .
The seborrhea - like characteristics of pemphigus foliaceus may obscure an early diagnosis .
When pemphigus is suspected , penicillamine should be discontinued .
Treatment has consisted of high doses of corticosteroids alone or , in some cases , concomitantly with an immunosuppressant .
Treatment may be required for only a few weeks or months , but may need to be continued for more than a year .
Once instituted for Wilson ’ s disease or cystinuria , treatment with penicillamine should , as a rule , be continued on a daily basis .
Interruptions for even a few days have been followed by sensitivity reactions after reinstitution of therapy .
Use In Pregnancy - Penicillamine has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses 6 times higher than the highest dose recommended for human use ( based on a standard weight of 50 kg ) .
Skeletal defects , cleft palates , and fetal toxicity ( resorptions ) have been reported .
There are no controlled studies on the use of penicillamine in pregnant women .
Although normal outcomes have been reported , characteristic congenital cutis laxa and associated birth defects have been reported in infants born of mothers who received therapy with penicillamine during pregnancy .
Penicillamine should be used in women of childbearing potential only when the expected benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Women on therapy with penicillamine who are of childbearing potential should be apprised of this risk , advised to report promptly any missed menstrual periods or other indications of possible pregnancy , and followed closely for early recognition of pregnancy .
Wilson ’ s Disease - Reported experience * shows that continued treatment with penicillamine throughout pregnancy protects the mother against relapse of the Wilson ’ s disease , and that discontinuation of penicillamine has deleterious effects on the mother .
If penicillamine is administered during pregnancy to patients with Wilson ’ s disease , it is recommended that the daily dosage be limited to 1 g .
If cesarean section is planned , the daily dosage should be limited to 250 mg during the last six weeks of pregnancy and post - operatively until wound healing is complete .
Cystinuria - If possible , penicillamine should not be given during pregnancy to women with cystinuria ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
There are reports of women with cystinuria on therapy with penicillamine who gave birth to infants with generalized connective tissue defects who died following abdominal surgery .
If stones continue to form in these patients , the benefits of therapy to the mother must be evaluated against the risk to the fetus .
Rheumatoid Arthritis - Penicillamine should not be administered to rheumatoid arthritis patients who are pregnant ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) and should be discontinued promptly in patients in whom pregnancy is suspected or diagnosed .
There is a report that a woman with rheumatoid arthritis treated with less than one gram a day of penicillamine during pregnancy gave birth ( cesarean delivery ) to an infant with growth retardation , flattened face with broad nasal bridge , low set ears , short neck with loose skin folds , and unusually lax body skin .
PRECAUTIONS Some patients may experience drug fever , a marked febrile response to penicillamine , usually in the second or third week following initiation of therapy .
Drug fever may sometimes be accompanied by a macular cutaneous eruption .
In the case of drug fever in patients with Wilson ’ s disease or cystinuria , penicillamine should be temporarily discontinued until the reaction subsides .
Then penicillamine should be reinstituted with a small dose that is gradually increased until the desired dosage is attained .
Systemic steroid therapy may be necessary , and is usually helpful , in such patients in whom toxic reactions develop a second or third time .
In the case of drug fever in rheumatoid arthritis patients , because other treatments are available , penicillamine should be discontinued and another therapeutic alternative tried , since experience indicates that the febrile reaction will recur in a very high percentage of patients upon readministration of penicillamine .
The skin and mucous membranes should be observed for allergic reactions .
Early and late rashes have occurred .
Early rash occurs during the first few months of treatment and is more common .
It is usually a generalized pruritic , erythematous , maculopapular , or morbilliform rash and resembles the allergic rash seen with other drugs .
Early rash usually disappears within days after stopping penicillamine and seldom recurs when the drug is restarted at a lower dosage .
Pruritus and early rash may often be controlled by the concomitant administration of antihistamines .
Less commonly , a late rash may be seen , usually after six months or more of treatment , and requires discontinuation of penicillamine .
It is usually on the trunk , is accompanied by intense pruritus , and is usually unresponsive to topical corticosteroid therapy .
Late rash may take weeks to disappear after penicillamine is stopped and usually recurs if the drug is restarted .
The appearance of a drug eruption accompanied by fever , arthralgia , lymphadenopathy , or other allergic manifestations usually requires discontinuation of penicillamine .
Certain patients will develop a positive antinuclear antibody ( ANA ) test and some of these may show a lupus erythematosus - like syndrome similar to drug - induced lupus associated with other drugs .
The lupus erythematosus - like syndrome is not associated with hypocomplementemia and may be present without nephropathy .
The development of a positive ANA test does not mandate discontinuance of the drug ; however , the physician should be alerted to the possibility that a lupus erythematosus - like syndrome may develop in the future .
Some patients may develop oral ulcerations which in some cases have the appearance of aphthous stomatitis .
The stomatitis usually recurs on rechallenge but often clears on a lower dosage .
Although rare , cheilosis , glossitis , and gingivostomatitis have also been reported .
These oral lesions are frequently dose - related and may preclude further increase in penicillamine dosage or require discontinuation of the drug .
Hypogeusia ( a blunting or diminution in taste perception ) has occurred in some patients .
This may last two to three months or more and may develop into a total loss of taste ; however , it is usually self - limited , despite continued penicillamine treatment .
Such taste impairment is rare in patients with Wilson ’ s disease .
* Scheinberg , I . H . , Sternlieb , I . : N Engl J Med 293 : 1300 - 1302 , December 18 , 1975 .
Penicillamine should not be used in patients who are receiving concurrently gold therapy , antimalarial or cytotoxic drugs , oxyphenbutazone , or phenylbutazone because these drugs are also associated with similar serious hematologic and renal adverse reactions .
Patients who have had gold salt therapy discontinued due to a major toxic reaction may be at greater risk of serious adverse reactions with penicillamine , but not necessarily of the same type .
Patients who are allergic to penicillin may theoretically have cross - sensitivity to penicillamine .
The possibility of reactions from contamination of penicillamine by trace amounts of penicillin has been eliminated now that penicillamine is being produced synthetically rather than as a degradation product of penicillin .
Because of their dietary restrictions , patients with Wilson ’ s disease and cystinuria should be given 25 mg / day of pyridoxine during therapy , since penicillamine increases the requirement for this vitamin .
Patients also may receive benefit from a multivitamin preparation , although there is no evidence that deficiency of any vitamin other than pyridoxine is associated with penicillamine .
In Wilson ’ s disease , multivitamin preparations must be copper - free .
Rheumatoid arthritis patients whose nutrition is impaired should also be given a daily supplement of pyridoxine .
Mineral supplements should not be given , since they may block the response to penicillamine .
Iron deficiency may develop , especially in children and in menstruating women .
In Wilson ’ s disease , this may be a result of adding the effects of the low copper diet , which is probably also low in iron , and the penicillamine to the effects of blood loss or growth .
In cystinuria , a low methionine diet may contribute to iron deficiency , since it is necessarily low in protein .
If necessary , iron may be given in short courses , but a period of two hours should elapse between administration of penicillamine and iron , since orally administered iron has been shown to reduce the effects of penicillamine .
Penicillamine causes an increase in the amount of soluble collagen .
In the rat this results in inhibition of normal healing and also a decrease in tensile strength of intact skin .
In man this may be the cause of increased skin friability at sites especially subject to pressure or trauma , such as shoulders , elbows , knees , toes , and buttocks .
Extravasations of blood may occur and may appear as purpuric areas , with external bleeding if the skin is broken , or as vesicles containing dark blood .
Neither type is progressive .
There is no apparent association with bleeding elsewhere in the body and no associated coagulation defect has been found .
Therapy with penicillamine may be continued in the presence of these lesions .
They may not recur if dosage is reduced .
Other reported effects probably due to the action of penicillamine on collagen are excessive wrinkling of the skin and development of small , white papules at venipuncture and surgical sites .
The effects of penicillamine on collagen and elastin make it advisable to consider a reduction in dosage to 250 mg / day when surgery is contemplated .
Reinstitution of full therapy should be delayed until wound healing is complete .
Carcinogenesis Long - term animal carcinogenicity studies have not been done with penicillamine .
There is a report that five of ten autoimmune disease - prone NZB hybrid mice developed lymphocytic leukemia after 6 months ’ intraperitoneal treatment with a dose of 400 mg / kg penicillamine 5 days per week .
Nursing Mothers See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Pediatric Use The efficacy of penicillamine in pediatric patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Penicillamine is a drug with a high incidence of untoward reactions , some of which are potentially fatal .
Therefore , it is mandatory that patients receiving penicillamine therapy remain under close medical supervision throughout the period of drug administration ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Reported incidences ( % ) for the most commonly occurring adverse reactions in rheumatoid arthritis patients are noted , based on 17 representative clinical trials reported in the literature ( 1270 patients ) .
Allergic - Generalized pruritus , early and late rashes ( 5 % ) , pemphigus ( see WARNINGS ) , and drug eruptions which may be accompanied by fever , arthralgia , or lymphadenopathy have occurred ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Some patients may show a lupus erythematosus - like syndrome similar to drug - induced lupus produced by other pharmacological agents ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Urticaria and exfoliative dermatitis have occurred .
Thyroiditis has been reported ; hypoglycemia in association with anti - insulin antibodies has been reported .
These reactions are extremely rare .
Some patients may develop a migratory polyarthralgia , often with objective synovitis ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Gastrointestinal - Anorexia , epigastric pain , nausea , vomiting , or occasional diarrhea may occur ( 17 % ) .
Isolated cases of reactivated peptic ulcer have occurred , as have hepatic dysfunction and pancreatitis .
Intrahepatic cholestasis and toxic hepatitis have been reported rarely .
There have been a few reports of increased serum alkaline phosphatase , lactic dehydrogenase , and positive cephalin flocculation and thymol turbidity tests .
Some patients may report a blunting , diminution , or total loss of taste perception ( 12 % ) ; or may develop oral ulcerations .
Although rare , cheilosis , glossitis , and gingivostomatitis have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal side effects are usually reversible following cessation of therapy .
Hematological - Penicillamine can cause bone marrow depression ( see WARNINGS ) .
Leukopenia ( 2 % ) and thrombocytopenia ( 4 % ) have occurred .
Fatalities have been reported as a result of thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and sideroblastic anemia .
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura , hemolytic anemia , red cell aplasia , monocytosis , leukocytosis , eosinophilia , and thrombocytosis have also been reported .
Renal - Patients on penicillamine therapy may develop proteinuria ( 6 % ) and / or hematuria which , in some , may progress to the development of the nephrotic syndrome as a result of an immune complex membranous glomerulopathy ( see WARNINGS ) .
Central Nervous System - Tinnitus , optic neuritis , and peripheral sensory and motor neuropathies ( including polyradiculoneuropathy , i . e . , Guillain - Barre Syndrome ) have been reported .
Muscular weakness may or may not occur with the peripheral neuropathies .
Neuromuscular - Myasthenia gravis ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other - Adverse reactions that have been reported rarely include thrombophlebitis ; hyperpyrexia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; falling hair or alopecia ; lichen planus ; polymyositis ; dermatomyositis ; mammary hyperplasia ; elastosis perforans serpiginosa ; toxic epidermal necrolysis ; anetoderma ( cutaneous macular atrophy ) ; and Goodpasture ’ s syndrome , a severe and ultimately fatal glomerulonephritis associated with intra - alveolar hemorrhage ( see WARNINGS ) .
Fatal renal vasculitis has also been reported .
Allergic alveolitis , obliterative bronchiolitis , interstitial pneumonitis , and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis , some of whom were receiving penicillamine .
Bronchial asthma also has been reported .
Increased skin friability , excessive wrinkling of skin , and development of small , white papules at venipuncture and surgical sites have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The chelating action of the drug may cause increased excretion of other heavy metals such as zinc , mercury , and lead .
There have been reports associating penicillamine with leukemia .
However , circumstances involved in these reports are such that a cause and effect relationship to the drug has not been established .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In all patients receiving penicillamine , it is important that penicillamine tablets be given on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals , and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food , or milk .
Because penicillamine increases the requirement for pyridoxine , patients may require a daily supplement of pyridoxine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Wilson ’ s Disease - Optimal dosage can be determined by measurement of urinary copper excretion and the determination of free copper in the serum .
The urine must be collected in copper - free glassware , and should be quantitatively analyzed for copper before and soon after initiation of therapy with penicillamine tablets .
Determination of 24 - hour urinary copper excretions is of greatest value in the first week of therapy with penicillamine .
In the absence of any drug reaction , a dose between 0 . 75 and 1 . 5 g that results in an initial 24 - hour cupriuresis of over 2 mg should be continued for about three months , by which time the most reliable method of monitoring maintenance treatment is the determination of free copper in the serum .
This equals the difference between quantitatively determined total copper and ceruloplasmin - copper .
Adequately treated patients will usually have less than 10 mcg free copper / dL of serum .
It is seldom necessary to exceed a dosage of 2 g / day .
If the patient is intolerant to therapy with penicillamine tablets , alternative treatment is trientine hydrochloride .
In patients who cannot tolerate as much as 1 g / day initially , initiating dosage with 250 mg / day , and increasing gradually to the requisite amount , gives closer control of the effects of the drug and may help to reduce the incidence of adverse reactions .
Cystinuria - It is recommended that penicillamine tablets be used along with conventional therapy .
By reducing urinary cystine , it decreases crystalluria and stone formation .
In some instances , it has been reported to decrease the size of , and even to dissolve , stones already formed .
The usual dosage of penicillamine tablets in the treatment of cystinuria is 2 g / day for adults , with a range of 1 to 4 g / day .
For pediatric patients , dosage can be based on 30 mg / kg / day .
The total daily amount should be divided into four doses .
If four equal doses are not feasible , give the larger portion at bedtime .
If adverse reactions necessitate a reduction in dosage , it is important to retain the bedtime dose .
Initiating dosage with 250 mg / day , and increasing gradually to the requisite amount , gives closer control of the effects of the drug and may help to reduce the incidence of adverse reactions .
In addition to taking penicillamine tablets , patients should drink copiously .
It is especially important to drink about a pint of fluid at bedtime and another pint once during the night when urine is more concentrated and more acid than during the day .
The greater the fluid intake , the lower the required dosage of penicillamine tablets .
Dosage must be individualized to an amount that limits cystine excretion to 100 to 200 mg / day in those with no history of stones , and below 100 mg / day in those who have had stone formation and / or pain .
Thus , in determining dosage , the inherent tubular defect , the patient ’ s size , age , and rate of growth , and his diet and water intake all must be taken into consideration .
The standard nitroprusside cyanide test has been reported useful as a qualitative measure of the effective dose * : * Lotz , M . , Potts , J . T . and Bartter , F . C . : BritMed J 2 : 521 , August 28 , 1965 ( in Medical Memoranda ) .
Add 2 mL of freshly prepared 5 percent sodium cyanide to 5 mL of a 24 - hour aliquot of protein - free urine and let stand ten minutes .
Add 5 drops of freshly prepared 5 percent sodium nitroprusside and mix .
Cystine will turn the mixture magenta .
If the result is negative , it can be assumed that cystine excretion is less than 100 mg / g creatinine .
Although penicillamine is rarely excreted unchanged , it also will turn the mixture magenta .
If there is any question as to which substance is causing the reaction , a ferric chloride test can be done to eliminate doubt : Add 3 percent ferric chloride dropwise to the urine .
Penicillamine will turn the urine an immediate and quickly fading blue .
Cystine will not produce any change in appearance .
Rheumatoid Arthritis - The principal rule of treatment with penicillamine tablets in rheumatoid arthritis is patience .
The onset of therapeutic response is typically delayed .
Two or three months may be required before the first evidence of a clinical response is noted ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
When treatment with penicillamine tablets has been interrupted because of adverse reactions or other reasons , the drug should be reintroduced cautiously by starting with a lower dosage and increasing slowly .
Initial Therapy - The currently recommended dosage regimen in rheumatoid arthritis begins with a single daily dose of 125 mg or 250 mg which is thereafter increased at one to three month intervals , by 125 mg or 250 mg / day , as patient response and tolerance indicate .
If a satisfactory remission of symptoms is achieved , the dose associated with the remission should be continued ( see Maintenance Therapy ) .
If there is no improvement and there are no signs of potentially serious toxicity after two to three months of treatment with doses of 500 to 750 mg / day , increases of 250 mg / day at two to three month intervals may be continued until a satisfactory remission occurs ( see Maintenance Therapy ) or signs of toxicity develop ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
If there is no discernible improvement after three to four months of treatment with 1000 to 1500 mg of penicillamine / day , it may be assumed the patient will not respond and penicillamine tablets should be discontinued .
Maintenance Therapy The maintenance dosage of penicillamine tablets must be individualized , and may require adjustment during the course of treatment .
Many patients respond satisfactorily to a dosage within the 500 to 750 mg / day range .
Some need less .
Changes in maintenance dosage levels may not be reflected clinically or in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate for two to three months after each dosage adjustment .
Some patients will subsequently require an increase in the maintenance dosage to achieve maximal disease suppression .
In those patients who do respond , but who evidence incomplete suppression of their disease after the first six to nine months of treatment , the daily dosage of penicillamine tablets may be increased by 125 mg or 250 mg / day at three - month intervals .
It is unusual in current practice to employ a dosage in excess of 1 g / day , but up to 1 . 5 g / day has sometimes been required .
Management of Exacerbations - During the course of treatment some patients may experience an exacerbation of disease activity following an initial good response .
These may be self - limited and can subside within twelve weeks .
They are usually controlled by the addition of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , and only if the patient has demonstrated a true “ escape ” phenomenon ( as evidenced by failure of the flare to subside within this time period ) should an increase in the maintenance dose ordinarily be considered .
In the rheumatoid patient , migratory polyarthralgia due to penicillamine is extremely difficult to differentiate from an exacerbation of the rheumatoid arthritis .
Discontinuance or a substantial reduction in the dosage of penicillamine tablets for up to several weeks will usually determine which of these processes is responsible for the arthralgia .
Duration of Therapy - The optimum duration of penicillamine tablets therapy in rheumatoid arthritis has not been determined .
If the patient has been in remission for six months or more , a gradual , stepwise dosage reduction in decrements of 125 mg or 250 mg / day at approximately three month intervals may be attempted .
Concomitant Drug Therapy - Penicillamine tablets should not be used in patients who are receiving gold therapy , anti - malarial or cytotoxic drugs , oxyphenbutazone , or phenylbutazone ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Other measures , such as salicylates , other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs or systemic corticosteroids may be continued when penicillamine tablets are initiated .
After improvement commences , analgesic and anti - inflammatory drugs may be slowly discontinued as symptoms permit .
Steroid withdrawal must be done gradually , and many months of penicillamine tablets treatment may be required before steroids can be completely eliminated .
Dosage Frequency - Based on clinical experience , dosages up to 500 mg / day can be given as a single daily dose .
Dosages in excess of 500 mg / day should be administered in divided doses .
HOW SUPPLIED Penicillamine Tablets USP , 250 mg ( Titratable Tablets ) - White to off - white , oval , biconvex coated tablets coded with “ 2000 ” on one side and scored ( functional scoring ) on both sides ; available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0254 - 2000 - 01 ) .
Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight container .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Dist .
by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 U . S . A . Mfg . by : Par Formulations Private Limited , 9 / 215 , Pudupakkam , Kelambakkam - 603 103 .
Made in India Mfg . Lic .
No . : TN00002121 OS2000 - 01 - 74 - 01 Issued : 07 / 2018 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label Penicillamine Tablets , USP 250 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
