1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NOVOLIN R is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
NOVOLIN R is a short - acting human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Subcutaneous injection : inject subcutaneously 30 minutes before a meal into the abdominal area , buttocks , thigh or the upper arm .
Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Intravenous use : administer intravenously ONLY under medical supervision at concentrations from 0 . 05 unit / mL to 1 unit / mL in infusion systems using polypropylene infusion bags .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Individualize dose based on route of administration , metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 3 ) • • NOVOLIN R given by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with an intermediate - or long - acting insulin .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Can be mixed with NOVOLIN N . ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Always check insulin labels before administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Inspect NOVOLIN R visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use NOVOLIN R if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• • Use of NOVOLIN R in insulin pumps is not recommended because of the risk of precipitation .
2 . 2 Route of Administration Subcutaneous Administration • • Inject NOVOLIN R subcutaneously approximately 30 minutes prior to the start of a meal into the abdominal area , buttocks , thigh , or the upper arm .
• • Rotate injection sites within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Intravenous Administration • • Administer NOVOLIN R intravenously ONLY under medical supervision with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
• • Dilute NOVOLIN R to concentrations from 0 . 05 unit / mL to 1 unit / mL insulin in infusion systems using polypropylene infusion bags .
NOVOLIN R is stable in infusion fluids such as 0 . 9 % sodium chloride , 5 % dextrose , or 10 % dextrose with 40 mmol / L potassium chloride .
Intravenous infusion bags are stable at room temperature for 24 hours .
2 . 3 Dosage Information • • Individualize and adjust the dosage of NOVOLIN R based on route of administration , the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
• • NOVOLIN R given by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens that include an intermediate or long - acting insulin .
• • During changes to a patient ’ s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• • Dosage adjustment may be needed when switching from another insulin to NOVOLIN R [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment due to Drug Interactions • • Dosage adjustment may be needed when NOVOLIN R is co - administered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
2 . 5 Instructions for Mixing with Other Insulins for Subcutaneous Injection • • NOVOLIN R can be mixed with NOVOLIN N . • • When mixing , the NOVOLIN R should be drawn into the syringe first and the mixture should be injected immediately after mixing .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Injection : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) , a clear and colorless solution available as : • • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • • 3 mL single - patient - use NOVOLIN R FlexPen prefilled pen Injection : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : • • 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 3 ) • • 3 mL single - patient - use NOVOLIN R FlexPen prefilled pen ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NOVOLIN R is contraindicated : • • During episodes of hypoglycemia • • In patients with hypersensitivity to NOVOLIN R or any of its excipients • • During episodes of hypoglycemia ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to NOVOLIN R or any of its excipients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Never share a NOVOLIN R FlexPen or syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ’ s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Increase frequency of blood glucose monitoring with changes to : insulin dosage , co - administered glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment or with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors : Accidental mix - ups between insulin products can occur .
Instruct patients to check insulin labels before injection .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur .
Discontinue NOVOLIN R , monitor , and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Never Share a NOVOLIN R FlexPen or Syringe between Patients NOVOLIN R FlexPen must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using NOVOLIN R vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to an unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ’ s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , dosage adjustments of concomitant anti - diabetic products may be needed .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction of all insulins , including NOVOLIN R . Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may lead to unconsciousness , may be life threatening or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place the patient and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each patient and change over time in the same patient .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes in patients with diabetic neuropathy , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and , in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulins , the glucose lowering effect time course of NOVOLIN R may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors Accidental mix - ups between NOVOLIN R and other insulin products have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between NOVOLIN R and other insulins , instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with NOVOLIN R . Generalized allergy to insulin may manifest as a whole body rash ( including pruritus ) , dyspnea , wheezing , hypotension , tachycardia , or diaphoresis .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue NOVOLIN R ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve .
NOVOLIN R is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to insulin human injection or its excipients .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulins , including NOVOLIN R , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentration ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including NOVOLIN R , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Medication Errors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Adverse Reactions from Clinical Studies or Postmarketing Reports The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during clinical studies or from postmarketing reports with use of NOVOLIN R . Because some of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions associated with insulin initiation and glucose control intensification Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
Over the long - term , improved glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
Hypersensitivity reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis .
Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in NOVOLIN R . Hypokalemia NOVOLIN R can cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Injection site reactions NOVOLIN R can cause local injection site reactions including redness , swelling , or itching at the site of injection .
These reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks , but in some occasions , may require discontinuation .
Localized reactions and generalized myalgias have been reported with the use of metacresol , which is an excipient in NOVOLIN R . Lipodystrophy Administration of insulin subcutaneously , including NOVOLIN R , has resulted in lipoatrophy ( depression in the skin ) or lipohypertrophy ( enlargement or thickening of tissue ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] in some patients .
Localized Cutaneous Amyloidosis Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
Medication Errors Medication errors in which other insulins have been accidentally substituted for NOVOLIN R have been identified during postapproval use .
Peripheral edema Insulins , including NOVOLIN R , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Weight gain Weight gain can occur with insulins , including NOVOLIN R , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria .
Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , insulin administration may cause anti - insulin antibodies to form .
Increases in titers of anti - insulin antibodies that react with human insulin have been observed in patients treated with NOVOLIN R . Adverse reactions observed with NOVOLIN R include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , weight gain and edema ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novo Nordisk Inc . at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with NOVOLIN R Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when NOVOLIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of NOVOLIN R Drugs : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when NOVOLIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of NOVOLIN R Drugs : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when NOVOLIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when NOVOLIN R is co - administered with these drugs .
• • Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 ) • • Antiadrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies were not performed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from retrospective studies , open - label , randomized , parallel studies and meta - analyses have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
All available studies have methodological limitations including lack of blinding , unclear methods of randomization , and small sample size .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Available data from published literature suggest that exogenous human insulin products , including NOVOLIN R , are transferred into human milk .
There are no adverse reactions reported in the breastfed infants in the literature .
There are no data on the effects of exogenous human insulin products , including NOVOLIN R , on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for NOVOLIN R and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from NOVOLIN R or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use NOVOLIN R is indicated to improve glycemic control in pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
The dosage of NOVOLIN R must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and frequent monitoring of blood glucose to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical trials 18 of 1285 patients ( 1 . 4 % ) with type 1 diabetes and 151 of 635 patients ( 24 % ) with type 2 diabetes treated with NOVOLIN R were ≥ 65 years of age .
Therefore , conclusions are limited regarding the efficacy and safety of NOVOLIN R in patients ≥ 65 years of age .
The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of NOVOLIN R has not been studied .
Elderly patients using NOVOLIN R , may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia due to co - morbid disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of NOVOLIN R has not been studied .
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent NOVOLIN R dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of NOVOLIN R has not been studied .
Patients with hepatic impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent NOVOLIN R dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and , particularly when given intravenously , hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment can be treated with intramuscular or subcutaneous glucagon or intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Insulin human is a short - acting human insulin produced by recombinant DNA technology , utilizing Saccharomyces cerevisiae ( baker ’ s yeast ) as the production organism and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 with a molecular weight of 5808 Da .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Structural formula of NOVOLIN R NOVOLIN R ( insulin human ) injection is a sterile , clear and colorless solution for subcutaneous or intravenous use .
Each mililiter of NOVOLIN R contains 100 units of insulin human , and glycerin ( 16 mg ) , metacresol ( 3 mg ) , zinc ( approximately 21 mcg / mL ) and Water for Injection .
Hydrochloric acid 2 N and sodium hydroxide 2 N may be added during manufacture to adjust pH . The pH is 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary activity of insulin , including NOVOLIN R is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulins lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake , especially by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulin inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhances protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics NOVOLIN R is a short - acting insulin .
The time course of insulin action ( i . e . , glucose lowering ) may vary considerably in different individuals , within the same individual , and different doses .
When injected subcutaneously , the glucose - lowering effect of NOVOLIN R begins approximately 30 minutes post - dose , is maximal between 1 . 5 and 3 . 5 hours post - dose and terminates approximately 8 hours post - dose .
The onset of action of NOVOLIN R , when administered intravenously , is more rapid in comparison to the subcutaneous administration .
When injected subcutaneously , NOVOLIN R has a slower onset of action and longer duration of action compared to the rapid - acting insulin analogs .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After single subcutaneous administration of 0 . 1 unit / kg of NOVOLIN R to healthy subjects , peak insulin concentrations occurred between 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 hours post - dose .
On average , insulin concentrations returned to baseline at around 5 hours post - dose .
The effects of gender , age , obesity , renal and hepatic impairment on the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of NOVOLIN R have not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of NOVOLIN R . NOVOLIN R is not mutagenic in the following in vitro tests : The chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , the micronucleus assay in mouse polychromatic erythrocytes , and the mutation frequency assay in Chinese hamster cells .
Standard reproduction and teratology studies in animals , including fertility assessments have not been conducted with NOVOLIN R . 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 0497 NDC : 50090 - 0497 - 0 10 mL in a VIAL / 1 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share a NOVOLIN R FlexPen or Syringe between Patients Advise patients using NOVOLIN R vials or FlexPen not to share needles , syringes or FlexPen with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia Inform patients that hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction with insulin .
Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , especially at initiation of NOVOLIN R therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) .
Hypoglycemia due to Medication Errors Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection to avoid mix - ups between insulin products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with NOVOLIN R . Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and to seek medical attention if they occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Novolin ® , FlexPen ® and Novo Nordisk ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
ReliOn ® is a registered trademark of Walmart Inc . and is used under license by Novo Nordisk Inc .
Patent Information : http : / / novonordisk - us . com / products / product - patents . html © 2022 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 U . S . License Number 1261 For information about NOVOLIN R contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 www . novonordisk - us . com 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 ( Se habla español ) Patient Package Insert Patient Information NOVOLIN ® R ( NO - voe - lin ) ( insulin human ) injection for subcutaneous or intravenous use Do not share your Novolin R FlexPen or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
What is Novolin R ?
Novolin R is a man - made insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
Who should not use Novolin R ?
Do not use Novolin R if you : • • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• • have an allergy to human insulin or any of the ingredients in Novolin R . See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Novolin R . Before using Novolin R , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have liver or kidney problems .
• • take other medicines , especially ones called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• • have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin R . • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Novolin R may pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using Novolin R . Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Before you start using Novolin R , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use Novolin R ?
• • Read the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with your Novolin R . • • Use Novolin R exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much Novolin R to use and when to use it .
• • Use Novolin R about 30 minutes before eating a meal .
• • Know the type , strength , and amount of insulin you use .
Do not change the type or amount of insulin you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you use different types of insulin .
• • Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are using the correct insulin .
• • Inject Novolin R under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs ( thighs ) , or upper arms .
Do not inject Novolin R into your vein ( intravenously ) or use in an insulin infusion pump .
Novolin R may be given into your vein only by your healthcare provider .
• oDo not mix Novolin R with any other insulin except Novolin N .
If Novolin R is mixed with Novolin N , Novolin R should be drawn into the syringe first .
Inject immediately after mixing .
• • Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• oDo not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• oDo not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• oDo not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• • Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep Novolin R and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Your dose of Novolin R may need to change because of : • • change in level of physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while using Novolin R ?
While using Novolin R do not : • • drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how Novolin R affects you .
• • drink alcohol or use prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of Novolin R ?
Novolin R may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • odizziness or lightheadedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability or mood changes , hunger .
• oYour healthcare provider may prescribe a glucagon emergency kit so that others can give you an injection if your blood sugar becomes too low ( hypoglycemia ) and you are unable to take sugar by mouth .
• • severe allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • oa rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• • low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• • heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with Novolin R may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin R . Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with Novolin R . Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • oshortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gain .
• oTreatment with TZDs and Novolin R may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • • severe hypoglycemia needing hospitalization or emergency room care , and be sure to tell the hospital staff the units of Novolin R your healthcare provider has prescribed for you .
• • trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of Novolin R include : • • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , allergic reactions including reactions at your injection site , skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) , weight gain , and swelling ( edema ) in hands or feet .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Novolin R . Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of Novolin R Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Novolin R for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Novolin R to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Novolin R .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Novolin R that is written for healthcare providers .
For more information about Novolin R , call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or go to www . novonordisk - us . com .
What are the ingredients in Novolin R ?
Active ingredient : insulin human Inactive ingredients : glycerin , metacresol , zinc , Water for Injection .
Hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide may be added .
Novolin ® , FlexPen ® and Novo Nordisk ® are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
© 2022 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 U . S . License Number 1261 For information about Novolin R contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 ( Se habla español ) www . novonordisk - us . com This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 11 / 2022 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Novolin ® R ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous use 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 100 units / mL , U - 100 ) Please read the following Instructions for Use carefully before using your Novolin ® R 10 mL vial and each time you get a refill .
You should read the instructions in this manual even if you have used an insulin 10 mL vial before .
There may be new information .
Before starting , gather all of the supplies that you will need to use for preparing and giving your insulin injection .
Never re - use syringes and needles .
How should I use the Novolin R vial ?
1 .
Check to make sure that you have the correct type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use different types of insulin .
2 .
Look at the vial and the insulin .
The insulin should be clear and colorless .
The tamper - resistant cap should be in place before the first use .
If the cap had been removed before your first use of the vial , or if the insulin is cloudy , colored , or contains any particles , do not use it and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
3 .
Wash your hands with soap and water .
Clean your injection site with an alcohol swab and let the injection site dry before you inject .
Talk with your healthcare provider about how to rotate injection sites and how to give an injection .
4 .
If you are using a new vial , pull off the tamper - resistant cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Do not roll or shake the vial .
Shaking right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or foam .
This can cause you to draw up the wrong dose of insulin .
6 .
Pull back the plunger on the syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 .
Push the needle through the rubber stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 .
Push the plunger all the way in to force air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 9 .
Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 .
If there are any air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles present in the syringe back into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 11 .
Check to make sure you have the right dose of Novolin R in the syringe .
12 .
Pull the syringe out of the vial ’ s rubber stopper .
13 .
Novolin R can be injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs ( thighs ) , or upper arms .
Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
For each injection , change ( rotate ) your injection site within the area of skin that you use .
Do not use the same injection site for reach injection .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
Your healthcare provider should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before and while inserting the needle .
This can vary from patient to patient so it is important to ask your healthcare provider if you did not receive instructions on pinching the skin .
Insert the needle into the skin .
Press the plunger of the syringe to inject the insulin .
When you are finished injecting the insulin , pull the needle out of your skin .
You may see a drop of Novolin R at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol wipe .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 .
After your injection , do not recap the needle .
Place used syringes , needles and used insulin vials in a disposable puncture - resistant sharps container , or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw on cap such as a detergent bottle or coffee can .
15 .
Ask your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be state or local laws about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycle .
How should I mix Novolin R with Novolin N ?
Different insulins should be mixed only under instruction from a healthcare provider .
Do not mix Novolin R with any other type of insulin except Novolin N . Novolin R should be mixed with Novolin N right before use .
When you are mixing Novolin R insulin with Novolin N , always draw the Novolin R ( clear ) insulin into the syringe first .
1 .
Add together the total number of units of Novolin N and Novolin R that you need to inject .
Your total dose of medicine to inject will be the amount of Novolin N and Novolin R in the syringe after drawing up both insulins .
For example , if you need 5 units of Novolin N and 2 units of Novolin R , the total dose of insulin in the syringe would be 7 units .
Preparing your Novolin N and Novolin R insulins for injection : 2 .
Roll the Novolin N vial between your hands until all of the liquid in the vial is cloudy .
3 .
Pull the plunger of the syringe down so that the dark end is lined up to the number of units needed for your Novolin N .
This will draw into the syringe the same amount of air as the Novolin N dose needed .
4 .
Put the needle through the rubber stopper of the cloudy Novolin N bottle .
After you inject the air into the Novolin N vial , remove the needle from the vial but do not withdraw any of the Novolin N insulin .
Putting air in the bottle makes it easier to draw the insulin out of the bottle .
5 .
Pull the plunger of the syringe down to the number of units needed for your Novolin R insulin .
After you draw the air into the syringe , inject the air into the Novolin R vial .
Drawing up and mixing your Novolin N and Novolin R insulins for injection : 6 .
With the needle in place , turn the clear insulin vial of Novolin R upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the right dose of Novolin R .
The tip of the needle must be in the Novolin R liquid to get the full dose and not an air dose .
7 .
Check the syringe for air bubbles .
If you see air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles in the syringe back into the vial .
8 .
After withdrawing the needle from the Novolin R vial , insert the needle into the Novolin N vial .
9 .
Turn the Novolin N vial upside down with the syringe and needle still in the vial .
Slowly pull the plunger back to withdraw your Novolin N dose .
Remember the total dose of medicine in the syringe should be your total dose of Novolin N and Novolin R insulins .
( See Step 1 under “ How should I mix Novolin R with Novolin N ? ” )
10 .
Inject your insulin right away otherwise it might not work properly .
How should I store Novolin ® R ?
• • Do not freeze Novolin R . Do not use Novolin R if it has been frozen .
• • Keep Novolin R away from heat or light .
• • All unopened vials : • oStore unopened Novolin R vials in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• oUnopened vials may be used until the expiration date printed on the label , if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• oUnopened vials should be thrown away after 42 days , if they are stored at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• • After vials have been opened : • oOpened Novolin R vials can be stored at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate .
• oThrow away all opened Novolin R vials after 42 days , even if they still have insulin left in them .
This Patient Instructions for Use has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 U . S . License Number 1261 Revised : 11 / 2022 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Novolin ® R FlexPen ® ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous use Introduction Please read the following instructions carefully before using your Novolin R FlexPen .
Do not share your Novolin R FlexPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
Novolin R FlexPen is a disposable , single - patient - use , dial - a - dose insulin pen .
You can select doses from 1 to 60 units in increments of 1 unit .
Novolin R FlexPen is designed to be used with NovoFine , NovoFine Plus or NovoTwist needles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] People who are blind or have vision problems should not use Novolin R FlexPen without help from a person trained to use Novolin R FlexPen .
Getting ready Make sure you have the following items : • • Novolin R FlexPen • • New NovoFine , NovoFine Plus or NovoTwist needle • • Alcohol swab • • Gauze pad [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing your Novolin R FlexPen Wash your hands with soap and water .
Before you start to prepare your injection , check the label to make sure that you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you take more than 1 type of insulin .
Novolin R should look clear and colorless .
Do not use your Novolin R FlexPen if the liquid contains particles or is colored .
A . Pull off the pen cap ( see diagram A ) .
Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Attaching the needle B . Remove the protective tab from a disposable needle .
Screw the needle tightly onto your Novolin R FlexPen .
It is important that the needle is put on straight ( see diagram B ) .
Never place a disposable needle on your Novolin R FlexPen until you are ready to take your injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C . Pull off the big outer needle cap ( see diagram C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] D . Pull off the inner needle cap and dispose of it ( see diagram D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Always use a new needle for each injection to help ensure sterility and prevent blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Be careful not to bend or damage the needle before use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To reduce the risk of unexpected needle sticks , never put the inner needle cap back on the needle .
Giving the airshot before each injection Before each injection small amounts of air may collect in the cartridge during normal use .
To avoid injecting air and to make sure you take the right dose of insulin : E . Turn the dose selector to select 2 units ( see diagram E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] F . Hold your Novolin R FlexPen with the needle pointing up .
Tap the cartridge gently with your finger a few times to make any air bubbles collect at the top of the cartridge ( see diagram F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] G . Keep the needle pointing upwards , press the push - button all the way in ( see diagram G ) .
The dose selector returns to 0 .
• A drop of insulin should appear at the needle tip .
If not , change the needle and repeat the procedure no more than 6 times .
• If you do not see a drop of insulin after 6 times , do not use the Novolin R FlexPen and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
• A small air bubble may remain at the needle tip , but it will not be injected .
• [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose Check and make sure that the dose selector is set at 0 .
H . Turn the dose selector to the number of units you need to inject .
The pointer should line up with your dose .
The dose can be corrected either up or down by turning the dose selector in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the pointer ( see diagram H ) .
When turning the dose selector , be careful not to press the push - button as insulin will come out .
You cannot select a dose larger than the number of units left in the cartridge .
You will hear a click for every single unit dialed .
Do not set the dose by counting the number of clicks you hear .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use the cartridge scale printed on the cartridge to measure your dose of insulin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Giving the injection Give the injection exactly as shown to you by your healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before injecting .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab and let the area dry .
Novolin R can be injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs ( thighs ) , or upper arms .
Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not use the same injection site for each injection .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
I . Insert the needle into your skin .
• Inject the dose by pressing the push - button all the way in until the 0 lines up with the pointer ( see diagram I ) .
Be careful only to push the button when injecting .
• Turning the dose selector will not inject insulin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] J . Keep the needle in the skin for at least 6 seconds , and keep the push - button pressed all the way in until the needle has been pulled out from the skin ( see diagram J ) .
This will make sure that the full dose has been given .
• You may see a drop of insulin at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If blood appears after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a gauze pad or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After the injection Do not recap the needle .
Recapping can lead to a needle stick injury .
Remove the needle from the Novolin R FlexPen after each injection and dispose of it .
This helps to prevent infection , leakage of insulin , and will help to make sure you inject the right dose of insulin .
If you do not have a sharps container , carefully slip the needle into the outer needle cap .
Safely remove the needle and throw it away as soon as you can .
• • The used Novolin R FlexPen may be thrown away in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
• • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• • If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • omade of a heavy - duty plastic • ocan be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out • oupright and stable during use • oleak - resistant • oproperly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container • • When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal . Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• • When there is not enough medicine left in your Novolin R FlexPen for your prescribed dose , the Novolin R FlexPen may be thrown away in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
The Novolin R FlexPen prevents the cartridge from being completely emptied .
It is designed to deliver 300 units .
K . Put the pen cap on the Novolin R FlexPen and store the Novolin R FlexPen without the needle attached ( see diagram K ) .
Storing without the needle attached helps prevent leaking , blocking of the needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store Novolin R FlexPen ?
• • Do not freeze Novolin R . Do not use Novolin R if it has been frozen .
• • Keep Novolin R away from heat and light .
• • Until first use : • oStore unused Novolin R FlexPen in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• oUnused Novolin R FlexPen may be used until the expiration date printed on the label , if kept in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• oUnused Novolin R FlexPen stored at room temperature should be thrown away after 28 days .
• • In - use : • oStore the Novolin R FlexPen you are currently using out of the refrigerator at room temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 28 days .
• oThe Novolin R FlexPen you are using should be thrown away after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
• oStore the Novolin R FlexPen without the needle attached .
Maintenance For the safe and proper use of your Novolin R FlexPen be sure to handle it with care .
Avoid dropping your Novolin R FlexPen as it may damage it .
If you are concerned that your Novolin R FlexPen is damaged , use a new one .
You can clean the outside of your Novolin R FlexPen by wiping it with a damp cloth .
Do not soak or wash your Novolin R FlexPen as it may damage it .
Do not refill your Novolin R FlexPen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the needle from Novolin R FlexPen after each injection .
This helps to ensure sterility , prevent leakage of insulin , and will help to make sure you inject the right dose of insulin for future injections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Be careful when handling used needles to avoid needle sticks and transfer of infectious diseases .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Keep your Novolin R FlexPen and needles out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Use Novolin R FlexPen as directed to treat your diabetes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not share your Novolin R FlexPen or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Always use a new needle for each injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Novo Nordisk is not responsible for harm due to using this insulin pen with products not recommended by Novo Nordisk .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] As a precautionary measure , always carry a spare insulin delivery device in case your Novolin R FlexPen is lost or damaged .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remember to keep the disposable Novolin R FlexPen with you .
Do not leave it in a car or other location where it can get too hot or too cold .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 U . S . License Number 1261 Revised : 11 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Human Insulin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
