• Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) 11 / 2018 WARNING : ACUTE PHOSPHATE NEPHROPATHY • • There have been rare , but serious reports of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients who received oral sodium phosphate products , including OsmoPrep , for colon cleansing prior to colonoscopy .
Some cases have resulted in permanent impairment of renal function and some patients required long - term dialysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • While some cases have occurred in patients without identifiable risk factors , patients at increased risk of acute phosphate nephropathy may include those with increased age , hypovolemia , increased bowel transit time ( such as bowel obstruction ) , active colitis , or baseline kidney disease , and those using medicines that affect renal perfusion or function ( such as diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme [ ACE ] inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers [ ARBs ] , and possibly nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs [ NSAIDs ] ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise patients of the importance of following the recommended split dosage regimen and the importance of adequate hydration before , during and after the use of OsmoPrep .
Avoid additional sodium phosphate - based purgative or enema products [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : ACUTE PHOSPHATE NEPHROPATHY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Rare , serious reports of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients who received oral sodium phosphate products , including OsmoPrep , for colon cleansing prior to colonoscopy .
Some cases have resulted in permanent impairment of renal function and some patients required long - term dialysis .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Patients at increased risk include those with increased age , hypovolemia , increased bowel transit time ( such as bowel obstruction ) , active colitis , or baseline kidney disease , and those using medicines that affect renal perfusion or function ( such as diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme [ ACE ] inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers [ ARBs ] , and possibly nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs [ NSAIDs ] ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Advise patients of the importance of following the recommended split dosage regimen and the importance of adequate hydration before , during and after the use of OsmoPrep .
Avoid additional sodium phosphate - based products .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OsmoPrep ® is indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
OsmoPrep is an osmotic laxative indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions : • • Two doses of OsmoPrep are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy : the first dose the evening before the colonoscopy and the second dose on the morning of the colonoscopy .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Do not take other laxatives , particularly additional sodium phosphate - based purgative or enema products .
( 2 . 1 , 7 . 3 ) • • Do not take oral medications within 1 hour before or after starting each dose .
( 2 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) Dosage Regimen ( 2 . 2 ) The recommended adult dosage is 32 tablets taken orally with a total of 2 quarts of clear liquids in the following manner : • • Evening before colonoscopy : 4 tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids every 15 minutes for a total of 20 tablets .
• • Next morning : 4 tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids every 15 minutes for a total of 12 tablets .
2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • • Correct fluid and electrolyte abnormalities before treatment with OsmoPrep [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Clear liquids must be consumed before , during and after taking OsmoPrep [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Do not administer OsmoPrep within 7 days of a previous use .
• • Two doses of OsmoPrep are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy : the first dose the evening before the colonoscopy and the second dose on the morning of the colonoscopy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • Consume only clear liquids ( no solid food ) from the start of OsmoPrep treatment until after the colonoscopy .
• • Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods containing pulp material .
• • Do not take other laxatives while taking OsmoPrep , particularly additional sodium phosphate - based purgative or enema products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• • Do not take oral medications within 1 hour before or after starting each dose of OsmoPrep [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Regimen Instruct adult patients that on the day before their colonoscopy , they can consume a light breakfast consisting of clear soup and / or plain yogurt ( no solid foods ) before noon , followed by only clear liquids until after the colonoscopy .
The recommended dose of OsmoPrep for colon cleansing for adult patients is 32 tablets ( 48 grams of sodium phosphate ) taken orally with a total of 2 quarts of clear liquids in the following manner : The evening before the colonoscopy : Take 4 OsmoPrep tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids every 15 minutes for a total of 20 tablets .
On the day of the colonoscopy starting 3 to 5 hours before the procedure : Take 4 OsmoPrep tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids every 15 minutes for a total of 12 tablets .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS OsmoPrep is supplied as oval , white to off - white compressed tablets , debossed with “ SLX ” on one side of the bisect and “ 102 ” on the other side of the bisect .
Each 1 . 5 gram tablet contains 1 . 102 grams of sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , USP and 0 . 398 grams of sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous , USP .
Tablets : 1 . 5 g of sodium phosphate ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS OsmoPrep is contraindicated in the following conditions : • • History of acute phosphate nephropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Gastric bypass or stapling surgery • • Bowel perforation • • Toxic colitis • • Toxic megacolon • • Hypersensitivity to sodium phosphate salts or any component of OsmoPrep [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• • Biopsy - proven acute phosphate nephropathy ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction ( 4 , 5 . 7 ) • • Gastric bypass or stapling surgery ( 4 ) • • Bowel perforation ( 4 ) • • Toxic colitis ( 4 ) • • Toxic megacolon ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to sodium phosphate salts or any components of OsmoPrep ( 4 , 5 . 7 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Renal disease and electrolyte disorders : Use caution in severe renal impairment and those taking concurrent medications that increase risk , ensure adequate hydration , and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use .
( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • • Cardiac arrhythmias : Consider pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Seizures : Use caution in patients with a history of seizures and patients at increased risk of seizure , including medications that lower the seizure threshold .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • • Suspected GI obstruction or perforation : Rule out diagnosis before administration .
( 4 , 5 . 4 ) • • Colonic mucosal ulceration : Consider potential for mucosal ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease .
Use with caution in patients with an acute exacerbation of chronic inflammatory bowel disease ( 5 . 5 ) • • Patients at risk for aspiration : Observe during administration .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis : Inform patients to seek immediate medical care if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Renal Disease , Acute Phosphate Nephropathy , and Electrolyte Disorders Renal Disease and Acute Phosphate Nephropathy There have been rare , but serious , reports of renal failure , acute phosphate nephropathy , and nephrocalcinosis in patients who received oral sodium phosphate products , including OsmoPrep , for colon cleansing prior to colonoscopy .
These cases often resulted in permanent impairment of renal function and several patients required long - term dialysis .
The time to onset is typically within days ; however , in some cases , the diagnosis of these events has been delayed up to several months after the ingestion of these products .
Patients at increased risk of acute phosphate nephropathy may include patients with the following : hypovolemia , baseline kidney disease , increased age , and patients using medicines that affect renal perfusion or function [ such as diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , and possibly nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Electrolyte Disorders Bowel preparations , including OsmoPrep can cause fluid and electrolyte disturbances , which can lead to serious adverse reactions including cardiac arrhythmias , seizures and renal impairment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Patient Management • • OsmoPrep is contraindicated in patients with a history of acute phosphate nephropathy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Use OsmoPrep with caution in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) , with conditions , or who are taking medications , that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of arrhythmias , seizures , or renal impairment .
Consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy labs ( phosphate , calcium , potassium , sodium , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• • Correct electrolyte abnormalities such as hypernatremia , hyperphosphatemia , hypokalemia , or hypocalcemia before treatment with OsmoPrep [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• • Avoid additional sodium phosphate - based purgative or enema products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before , during , and after the use of OsmoPrep [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration while or after taking OsmoPrep , consider performing post - colonoscopy lab tests [ electrolytes , creatinine , and blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation .
QT prolongation with sodium phosphate tablets has been associated with electrolyte imbalances , such as hypokalemia and hypocalcemia .
Use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias ( e . g . , patients with a history of prolonged QT , uncontrolled arrhythmias , recent myocardial infarction , unstable angina , congestive heart failure , or cardiomyopathy ) and those taking medications known to prolong the QT interval , since serious complications may occur .
Consider pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs s in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias .
5 . 3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic - clonic seizures and / or loss of consciousness associated with use of sodium phosphate osmotic laxative products , such as OsmoPrep , in patients with no prior history of seizures .
The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia ) and low serum osmolality .
The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Use OsmoPrep with caution in patients with a history of seizures and in patients at higher risk of seizure , such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold ( such as tricyclic antidepressants ) , patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines , or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering OsmoPrep [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis .
5 . 5 Colonic Mucosal Ulceration and Inflammatory Bowel Disease Osmotic laxatives , including OsmoPrep , may induce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations .
In the OsmoPrep clinical program , aphthous ulcers were observed in 3 % of patients who took the recommended OsmoPrep dosing regimen .
Consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from bowel preparation when interpreting colonoscopic finding should in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease .
Use OsmoPrep with caution in patients experiencing an acute exacerbation of chronic inflammatory bowel disease as published data suggest that sodium phosphate absorption may be enhanced in such patients .
5 . 6 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex or other swallowing abnormalities are at risk for regurgitation or aspiration of OsmoPrep .
Observed these patients during administration of OsmoPrep .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity Reactions OsmoPrep may cause serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , rash , urticaria , and throat tightness [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious or otherwise important adverse reactions for bowel preparations are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Renal Disease , Acute Phosphate Nephropathy , and Electrolyte Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiac Arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Colonic Mucosal Ulceration and Inflammatory Bowel Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Aspiration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) are : bloating , nausea , abdominal pain , and vomiting .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Salix Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of OsmoPrep was evaluated in two randomized , investigator - blinded , active controlled trials in 931 adult patients undergoing elective colonoscopy .
The mean age of the study population was 60 years ( range 20 to 89 years ) , 88 % of patients were Caucasian and 55 % were female [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Table 1 shows the most common adverse reactions reported in greater than 3 % of patients by treatment group in Study 1 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of OsmoPrep , diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in this clinical trial .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] in Patients Undergoing Colonoscopy in Study 1 OsmoPrep 32 tabs ( 48 g ) N = 272 OsmoPrep 40 tabs ( 60 g ) N = 265 Sodium Phosphate [ 2 ] 40 tabs ( 60 g ) N = 268 Bloating 31 % 39 % 41 % Nausea 26 % 37 % 30 % Abdominal Pain 23 % 24 % 25 % Vomiting 4 % 10 % 9 % [ 1 ] Reported in more than 3 % of patients in at least one treatment group [ 2 ] Another oral formulation of sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous Electrolyte Abnormalities in Study 1 Hyperphosphatemia A total of , 96 % , 96 % , and 93 % of patients who took 60 grams of oral sodium phosphate , 60 grams of OsmoPrep , and 48 grams of OsmoPrep , respectively , developed hyperphosphatemia ( defined as phosphate level > 5 . 1 mg / dL ) on the day of the colonoscopy .
In this study , patients who took 60 grams of oral sodium phosphate , 60 grams of OsmoPrep , and 48 grams of OsmoPrep had baseline mean phosphate levels of 3 . 5 , 3 . 5 , and 3 . 6 mg / dL and subsequently developed mean phosphate levels of 7 . 6 , 7 . 9 , and 7 . 1 mg / dL , respectively , on the day of the colonoscopy .
Hyperkalemia A total of 20 % , 22 % , and 18 % of patients who took 60 grams of oral sodium phosphate , 60 grams of OsmoPrep , and 48 grams of OsmoPrep , respectively , developed hypokalemia ( defined as a potassium level < 3 . 4 mEq / L ) on the day of the colonoscopy .
In this study , patients who took 60 grams of oral sodium phosphate , 60 grams of OsmoPrep , and 48 grams of OsmoPrep all had baseline potassium levels of about 4 . 3 mEq / L and then developed a mean potassium level of 3 . 7 mEq / L on the day of the colonoscopy .
Several patients on all three sodium phosphate regimens developed hypocalcemia and hypernatremia that did not require treatment .
The OsmoPrep 60 - gram dosage regimen was associated with an increased risk of adverse reactions compared to the 48 - gram dosage regimen and a similar overall response rate [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Therefore , the OsmoPrep 60 - gram dosage is not a recommended regimen [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of OsmoPrep .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity reactions : anaphylaxis , angioedema ( swelling of the lips , tongue and face ) , rash , pruritus , urticaria , throat tightness , bronchospasm , dyspnea , pharyngeal edema , dysphagia , and paresthesia .
Cardiovascular : Arrhythmias Nervous system : Seizures Renal : Renal impairment , increased blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) , increased creatinine , acute renal failure , acute phosphate nephropathy , nephrocalcinosis , and renal tubular necrosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Drugs that increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase Risks due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients with conditions , or who are using medications , that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of renal impairment , seizures , arrhythmias , or prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate in patients taking these concomitant medications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Potential for Reduced Drug Absorption OsmoPrep can reduce the absorption of other coadministered oral medications .
Administer oral medications at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after starting each OsmoPrep dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 3 Other Sodium Phosphate - Based Laxatives Administration of additional sodium phosphate - based purgative or enema products with OsmoPrep may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy .
Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on sodium phosphate use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium phosphate .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available to assess the presence of sodium phosphate in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of OsmoPrep to a child during lactation ; therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for OsmoPrep and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from OsmoPrep or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 599 patients in clinical trials receiving at least 48 grams of OsmoPrep , 134 ( 22 % ) were 65 years of age or older , while 27 ( 5 % ) were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between geriatric patients and younger patients .
However , the mean phosphate levels in geriatric patients were greater than the phosphate levels in younger patients after OsmoPrep administration .
The mean colonoscopy - day phosphate levels in patients 18 - 64 , 65 - 74 , and ≥ 75 years old who received the recommended OsmoPrep dosage regimen in Study 1 were 7 . 0 , 7 . 3 , and 8 . 0 mg / dL , respectively .
After OsmoPrep administration , the mean phosphate levels in patients 18 - 64 , 65 - 74 , and ≥ 75 years old were 7 . 4 , 7 . 9 , and 8 . 0 mg / dL , respectively .
Greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out ; therefore , use OsmoPrep with caution in geriatric patients .
Advise geriatric patients to adequately hydrate before , during , and after the use of OsmoPrep .
Sodium phosphate is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions with sodium phosphate may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Since geriatric patients are more likely to have impaired renal function , consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy labs ( phosphate , calcium , potassium , sodium , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Sodium phosphate is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Use OsmoPrep with caution in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function .
These patients may be at risk for renal injury .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before , during and after the use of OsmoPrep , and consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy labs ( phosphate , calcium , potassium , sodium , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of OsmoPrep may lead to severe electrolyte disturbances , including hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , hypernatremia , or hypokalemia , as well as dehydration and hypovolemia , with attendant signs and symptoms of these disturbances .
Certain severe electrolyte disturbances resulting from overdose may lead to cardiac arrhythmias , seizure , renal failure , and death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor for fluid and electrolyte disturbances and treated symptomatically .
11 DESCRIPTION OsmoPrep ( sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ) is an osmotic laxative used to clean the colon prior to colonoscopy .
OsmoPrep is manufactured with a highly soluble tablet binder and does not contain microcrystalline cellulose ( MCC ) .
OsmoPrep tablets are oval , white to off - white compressed tablets , debossed with “ SLX ” on one side of the bisect and “ 102 ” on the other side of the bisect .
Each OsmoPrep tablet , for oral administration , contains 1 . 102 grams of sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , USP and 0 . 398 grams of sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous , USP for a total of 1 . 5 grams of sodium phosphate per tablet .
Inert ingredients include polyethylene glycol 8000 , NF ; and magnesium stearate , NF .
OsmoPrep is gluten - free .
The structural and molecular formulae and molecular weights of the active ingredients are shown below : • Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary mode of action is the osmotic effect of sodium , which induces a laxative effect .
The physiological consequence is increased water retention in the lumen of the colon , resulting in loose stools .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Administration of the recommended OsmoPrep dosage regimen has a purgative effect for approximately 1 to 3 hours .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic studies with OsmoPrep have not been conducted .
However , the following pharmacokinetic study was conducted with another oral tablet formulation of sodium phosphate which contain the same active ingredients as OsmoPrep at a dose that is 25 % greater than the OsmoPrep dose .
Absorption An open - label pharmacokinetic study of oral sodium phosphate in healthy subjects was performed to determine the concentration - time profile of serum inorganic phosphorus levels after oral sodium phosphate administration .
All subjects received the approved dosing regimen for colon cleansing of 60 grams of sodium phosphate with a total liquid volume of 3 . 6 quarts .
A 30 - gram dose ( 20 tablets given as 3 tablets every 15 minutes with 8 ounces of clear liquids ) was given beginning at 6 PM in the evening .
The 30 - gram dose ( 20 tablets given as 3 tablets every 15 minutes with 8 ounces of clear liquids ) was repeated the following morning beginning at 6 AM .
Twenty - three healthy subjects ( mean age 57 years old ; 57 % male and 43 % female ; and 65 % Hispanic , 30 % Caucasian , and 4 % African - American ) participated in this pharmacokinetic study .
The serum phosphorus level rose from a mean ( ± standard deviation ) baseline of 4 . 0 ( ± 0 . 7 ) mg / dL to 7 . 7 ( ± 1 . 6 mg / dL ) , at a median of 3 hours after the administration of the first 30 - gram dose of sodium phosphate tablets ( see Figure 1 ) .
The serum phosphorus level rose to a mean of 8 . 4 ( ± 1 . 9 ) mg / dL , at a median of 4 hours after the administration of the second 30 - gram dose of sodium phosphate tablets .
The serum phosphorus level remained above baseline for a median of 24 hours after the administration of the initial dose of sodium phosphate tablets ( range 16 to 48 hours ) .
Figure 1 .
Mean ( ± Standard Deviation ) Serum Phosphorus Concentrations [ MULTIMEDIA ] The upper ( 4 . 5 mg / dL ) and lower ( 2 . 6 mg / dL ) reference limits for serum phosphate are represented by solid bars .
Specific Populations Male and Female Patients : No difference in serum phosphate AUC values were observed in the single pharmacokinetic study conducted with sodium phosphate tablets in 13 male and 10 female healthy subjects .
Elderly Patients : In a single pharmacokinetic study of sodium phosphate tablets , which included 6 elderly subjects , plasma half - life increased two - fold in subjects > 70 years of age compared to subjects < 50 years of age ( 3 subjects and 5 subjects , respectively ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Patients with Renal Impairment : The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of OsmoPrep has not been studied .
The inorganic form of phosphate in the circulating plasma is excreted almost entirely by the kidneys [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 CLINICAL STUDIES The colon cleansing efficacy and safety of OsmoPrep was evaluated in a randomized , investigator - blinded , actively controlled , multicenter , U . S . trial in patients scheduled to have an elective colonoscopy ( Study 1 ) .
In Study 1 , patients were randomized into one of the following three sodium phosphate treatment groups : • • An oral tablet formulation of sodium phosphate containing 60 grams of sodium phosphate given in split doses ( 30 grams in the evening before the colonoscopy and 30 grams on the next day ) with at least 3 . 6 quarts of clear liquids ; • • OsmoPrep containing 60 grams of sodium phosphate given in split doses ( 30 grams in the evening before the colonoscopy and 30 grams on the next day ) with 2 . 5 quarts of clear liquids ; and • • OsmoPrep containing 48 grams of sodium phosphate ( 30 grams in the evening before the colonoscopy and 18 grams on the next day ) with 2 quarts of clear liquids .
Patients were instructed to eat a light breakfast before noon on the day prior to the colonoscopy and then were told to drink only clear liquids after noon on the day prior to the colonoscopy .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the overall colon cleansing response rate in the 4 - point Colonic Contents Scale .
Response was defined as a rating of “ excellent ” or “ good ” on the 4 - point scale as determined by the blinded colonoscopist .
This trial was designed to assess the non - inferiority of the two OsmoPrep groups compared to the active control group .
The efficacy analysis included 704 adult patients who had an elective colonoscopy .
Patients ranged in age from 21 to 89 years old ( mean age 56 years old ) with 55 % female and 45 % male patients .
Race was distributed as follows : 87 % Caucasian , 10 % African American , and 3 % other race .
The OsmoPrep 60 - gram and 48 - gram treatment groups demonstrated non - inferiority compared to the active control .
See Table 2 for the results .
Table 2 : Phase 3 Study – Overall Colon Content Cleansing Response Rates [ 1 ] Treatment Arm ( grams of sodium phosphate ) No .
of tablets taken at 6 PM on the day prior to colonoscopy No .
of tablets taken the next day [ 2 ] Excellent Good Fair Inadequate Overall Response Rate ( Excellent or Good ) OsmoPrep 32 tabs ( 48 g ) n = 236 20 12 76 % 19 % 3 % 2 % 95 % OsmoPrep 40 tabs ( 60 g ) n = 233 20 20 73 % 24 % 2 % 1 % 97 % Sodium Phosphate Tablets 40 tabs ( 60 g ) n = 235 20 20 51 % 43 % 6 % 0 % 94 % [ 1 ] Colon cleansing efficacy was based on response rate to treatment .
A patient was considered to be a responder if overall colon cleansing was rated as “ excellent ” or “ good ” on a 4 - point scale based on the amount of retained “ colonic contents ” .
Excellent was defined as > 90 % of mucosa seen , mostly liquid stool , minimal suctioning needed for adequate visualization .
Good was defined as > 90 % of mucosa seen , mostly liquid stool , significant suctioning needed for adequate visualization .
Fair was defined as > 90 % of mucosa seen , mixture of liquid and semisolid stool , could be suctioned and / or washed .
Inadequate was defined as ˂ 90 % of mucosa seen , mixture of semisolid and solid stool which could not be suctioned or washed .
[ 2 ] On the day of the colonoscopy , study medication was taken 3 to 5 hours before the start of the colonoscopy .
The OsmoPrep 60 - gram dosage regimen had a similar overall response rate as the 48 - gram dosage regimen and was associated with an increased risk of adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Therefore , the OsmoPrep 60 - gram dosage is not a recommended regimen [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING OsmoPrep ( sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ) tablets are supplied as oval , white to off - white compressed tablets , debossed with “ SLX ” on one side of the bisect and “ 102 ” on the other side of the bisect .
Each 1 . 5 gram tablet contains 1 . 102 grams of sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , USP and 0 . 398 grams of sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous , USP .
OsmoPrep is packaged in a multi - dose , child - resistant bottle containing 100 tablets : NDC 65649 - 701 - 41 .
Each bottle contains two silica desiccant packets , which should not be ingested .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Discard any unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Instruct patients : • • On the importance of taking the recommended fluid regimen .
Advise them to hydrate adequately with clear liquids before , during , and after the use of OsmoPrep [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Examples of clear liquids can be found in the Medication Guide .
• • Two doses of OsmoPrep are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy .
• • Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods containing pulp material .
• • Not to take other laxatives or enemas made with sodium phosphate while they are taking OsmoPrep [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• • Not to take oral medications within one hour before or after starting each dose of OsmoPrep [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• • To contact their healthcare provider if they develop significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking OsmoPrep or if they experience cardiac arrhythmias or seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • To seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Distributed by : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA U . S . Patent Number : 7 , 687 , 075 and other pending applications .
® / ™ are trademarks of Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates .
All other product / brand names are trademarks of their respective owners .
© 2019 Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates 9516403 70014026 Medication Guide OsmoPrep ® ( AHHZ - MO - PREP ) ( sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ) tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking OsmoPrep .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about OsmoPrep ?
OsmoPrep can cause serious side effects , including : Serious kidney problems .
Rare , but serious kidney problems can happen in people who take medicines made with sodium phosphate , including OsmoPrep , to clean the colon before colonoscopy .
These kidney problems can sometimes lead to kidney failure or the need for dialysis for a long time .
These problems often happen within a few days , but sometimes may happen several months after taking OsmoPrep .
Conditions that can make you more at risk for having serious kidney problems with OsmoPrep include if you : • • lose too much body fluid ( dehydration ) • • have slow moving bowels • • have a blockage in your intestine ( bowel obstruction ) • • have any disease that causes bowel inflammation ( colitis ) • • have kidney disease or kidney problems • • have heart failure • • take water pills , high blood pressure medicine , or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) Increased age may increase your risk for having serious kidney problems with OsmoPrep .
Severe fluid loss ( dehydration ) and severe changes in body salts in the blood ( electrolytes ) .
People who take medicines to clean their colon before a colonoscopy , including OsmoPrep , can have severe loss of body fluid , with severe changes in body salts in the blood .
These changes can be serious and can cause : • • abnormal heart rhythms • • kidney problems • • seizures .
This can happen even if you have never had a seizure .
Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms of loss of too much body fluid ( dehydration ) while taking OsmoPrep : • • vomiting • • urinating less often than normal • • dizziness • • headache See “ What are the possible side effects of OsmoPrep ? ”
for more information about side effects .
Important information about taking OsmoPrep : • • Two doses of OsmoPrep are needed to completely prepare for your colonoscopy .
Take your first dose of OsmoPrep on the evening before your colonoscopy .
Take your second dose of OsmoPrep on the morning of your colonoscopy .
• • Drink plenty of clear liquids before , during , and after taking OsmoPrep .
• • Do not take another laxative or enema that contains sodium phosphate while taking OsmoPrep .
See “ How should I take OsmoPrep ? ”
for more information about how to take OsmoPrep .
What is OsmoPrep ?
OsmoPrep is a prescription medicine used in adults to clean your colon before a colonoscopy .
OsmoPrep cleans your colon by causing you to have diarrhea .
Cleaning your colon helps your doctor see the inside of your colon more clearly during the colonoscopy .
It is not known if OsmoPrep is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take OsmoPrep ?
Do not take OsmoPrep if you : • • have had a kidney biopsy that shows you have kidney problems because of too much phosphate .
• • have stomach or bowel ( intestine ) blockage .
• • had stomach surgery involving stapling or bypass .
• • have an opening in the wall of your intestine ( bowel perforation ) .
• • have a severely inflamed colon ( toxic colitis ) .
• • have a very dilated intestine ( toxic megacolon ) .
• • are allergic to sodium phosphate salts or any of the ingredients in OsmoPrep .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in OsmoPrep .
What should I tell my doctor before taking OsmoPrep ?
Before you take OsmoPrep , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have problems with serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) .
• • have kidney problems .
• • have heart problems .
• • have a history of seizures .
• • have had stomach surgery .
• • have stomach or bowel problems .
• • have ulcerative colitis .
• • have problems with swallowing , gastric reflux , or if you inhale food or fluid into your lungs when eating or drinking ( aspirate ) .
• • are withdrawing from alcohol use .
• • are withdrawing from the use of a type of medicine called a benzodiazepine .
• • are on a low salt diet .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if OsmoPrep will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if OsmoPrep passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take OsmoPrep while breastfeeding .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
OsmoPrep may affect how other medicines work .
Do not take medicines by mouth within 1 hour of starting each dose of OsmoPrep or 1 hour after you start taking each dose of OsmoPrep .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • • water pills ( diuretics ) .
• • medicines for blood pressure or heart problems .
• • medicines for kidney problems .
• • medicines for pain , such as aspirin or a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
• • medicine for seizures .
• • a laxative for constipation .
Do not take other laxatives while taking OsmoPrep , especially a laxative or enema that contains sodium phosphate .
• • medicine for depression or other mental health problem called a benzodiazepine .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if you take any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines to show your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new prescription .
How should I take OsmoPrep ?
• • Take OsmoPrep exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• • On the day before your colonoscopy , you can eat a light breakfast before 12 : 00 PM ( noon ) .
Examples of foods that you can eat include : clear liquids and plain yogurt .
Do not eat any solid foods on the day before your colonoscopy .
After your light breakfast , eat or drink only clear liquids until after your colonoscopy .
• • It is important for you to drink plenty of clear liquids before , during , and after taking OsmoPrep .
This may help prevent kidney damage .
Examples of clear liquids are : • • water • • clear soda • • clear broth soups • • gelatin ( without added fruit or topping ) • • herbal tea , black tea or coffee • • popsicles ( without pieces of fruit or fruit pulp ) • • watered down ( diluted ) ( from concentrate ) clear fruit juices ( without pulp ) including apple juice or white grape juice • • strained limeade or lemonade • • Eat or drink only clear liquids after 12 : 00 PM ( noon ) on the day before your colonoscopy until after your colonoscopy .
• • Do not eat solid food starting on the day before your colonoscopy until after your colonoscopy .
• • Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any foods that have pulp .
• You must read , understand , and follow these instructions to take OsmoPrep the right way : • On the evening before your colonoscopy , take a total of 20 OsmoPrep tablets , as follows : • Step 1 .
Take 4 OsmoPrep tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids .
• Step 2 .
Wait 15 minutes .
• Step 3 .
Take 4 more OsmoPrep tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids .
• Step 4 .
Repeat Steps 2 and 3 above , three more times .
Make sure you wait 15 minutes after each time .
On the day of your colonoscopy , take a total of 12 OsmoPrep tablets , starting about 3 to 5 hours before your colonoscopy , as follows : • Step 1 .
Take 4 OsmoPrep tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids .
• Step 2 .
Wait 15 minutes .
• Step 3 .
Take 4 more OsmoPrep tablets with 8 ounces of clear liquids .
• Step 4 .
Repeat Steps 2 and 3 one more time .
If you take too much OsmoPrep , call your doctor or get medical help right away .
What should I avoid while taking OsmoPrep ?
• • Do not take other laxatives or enemas made with sodium phosphate while taking OsmoPrep .
• • Do not use OsmoPrep if you have already used it in the last 7 days .
What are the possible side effects of OsmoPrep ?
OsmoPrep can cause serious side effects , including : • • See “ What is the most important information I should know about OsmoPrep ? ”
• • Changes in certain blood tests .
Your doctor may do blood tests before and after you take OsmoPrep to check your levels of calcium , phosphate , potassium , and sodium in your blood .
Tell your doctor if you have any symptoms of too much fluid loss , including : • • vomiting • • urinating less often than normal • • dizziness • • headache • • Abnormal heartbeat ( arrhythmias ) .
Tell your doctor if you have an abnormal or irregular heartbeat while taking OsmoPrep .
• • Seizures or fainting ( loss of consciousness ) .
People who take a medicine that contains sodium phosphate , such as OsmoPrep , can have seizures or faint even if they have not had seizures before .
Tell your doctor right away if you have a seizure or faint while taking OsmoPrep .
• • Sores ( ulcers ) in the lining of the colon .
Tell your doctor right away if you have severe stomach - area ( abdomen ) pain or rectal bleeding .
• • Serious allergic reaction .
Get emergency medical care right away if you have symptoms of a serious allergic reaction , including : • • swelling of the face , lips , tongue or throat • • dizziness or lightheadedness • • problems breathing or wheezing • • skin rash • • throat tightness • • raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • • fainting The most common side effects of OsmoPrep are : • • bloating • • stomach ( abdominal ) pain • • nausea • • vomiting Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of OsmoPrep .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OsmoPrep ?
• • Store OsmoPrep at room temperature between 68ºF to 77 ° F ( 20ºC to 25 ° C ) .
• • Throw away any OsmoPrep that is not used .
Keep OsmoPrep and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of OsmoPrep .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use OsmoPrep for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OsmoPrep to other people , even if they are going to have the same procedure that you are .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in OsmoPrep ?
Active ingredients : sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous Inactive ingredients : polyethylene glycol 8000 and magnesium stearate .
OsmoPrep is gluten - free .
Distributed by : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA U . S . Patent Number : 7 , 687 , 075 and other pending applications .
® / ™ are trademarks of Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2019 Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates For more information , call 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 ( toll - free ) or go to www . Salix . com .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 03 / 2019 9516403 70014026 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - OsmoPrep Carton NDC 65649 - 701 - 41 Rx only OsmoPrep ® ( sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ) Tablets 1 . 5 g PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
100 Tablets Salix Pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
