Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each tablet taken orally contains Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride , USP with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] p - Hydroxy - α [ 1 - [ ( methyl - 2 - phenoxy - ethyl ) amino ] ethyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] QUANTITATIVE INGREDIENT INFORMATION Each tablet taken orally contains 20 mg Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride .
PHARMACOLOGICAL CLASS Peripheral Vasodilator INDICATIONS Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research and / or other information , the FDA has classified the indications as follows : Possibly Effective • For the relief of symptoms associated with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
• In peripheral vascular disease of arteriosclerosis obliterans , thromboangitis obliterans ( Buerger ' s disease ) and Raynaud ' s disease .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known contraindications to oral use when administered in recommended doses .
Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride , USP should not be given immediately postpartum or in the presence of arterial bleeding .
PRECAUTIONS Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS On rare occasion oral administration of the drug has been associated in time with the occurrence of hypotension , tachycardia , chest pain , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , abdominal distress , and severe rash .
If rash appears , the drug should be discontinued .
Although available evidence suggests a temporal association of these reactions with Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride , a causal relationship can be neither confirmed nor refuted .
Beta Adrenergic receptor stimulants such as Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride have been used to inhibit pre - term labor .
Maternal and fetal tachycardia may occur under such use .
Hypocalcemia , hypoglycemia , hypotension and ileus have been reported to occur in infants whose mothers received Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride .
Pulmonary edema has been reported in mothers treated with beta stimulants .
Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride is neither approved nor recommended for use in the treatment of premature labor .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral : 10 to 20 mg , three or four times daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Isoxsuprine HCl tablets , USP 20 mg Bottles of 1000 NDC 63549 - 919 - 53 COMPOSITION Isoxsuprine HCl 20 mg tablets : These tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate ( vegetable ) , microcrystalline cellulose .
Manufactured For : Valdar St . Joseph , MO 64507 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 63549 - 919 - 53 Isoxsuprine Hydrochloride Tablets USP 20 mg 1000 Tablets Rx Only VALDAR [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
