25 mg and 50 mg Rx Only DESCRIPTION Hydroxyzine pamoate is a light yellow , practically odorless powder practically insoluble in water and methanol and freely soluble in dimethylformamide .
It is chemically designated as ( ± ) - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - Chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] ethoxy ] ethanol 4 , 4 ’ - methylenebis [ 3 - hydroxy - 2 - naphthoate ] ( 1 : 1 ) [ 10246 - 75 - 0 ] and can be structurally represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 21 H 27 CIN 2 O 2 • C 23 H 16 O 6 M . W . 763 . 27 Each capsule , for oral administration , contains hydroxyzine pamoate equivalent to hydroxyzine hydrochloride 25 mg or 50 mg .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , sodium starch glycolate ( potato ) , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The capsule shell contains the following ingredients : D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Green # 3 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The edible imprinting ink contains the following ingredients : black iron oxide , D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 , FD & C Red # 40 , propylene glycol , and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydroxyzine pamoate is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate , or the benzodiazepines .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydroxyzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
Hydroxyzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydroxyzine pamoate clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia , hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine ( Demerol ® ) and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxyzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit , induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with a prolonged QT interval .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine products , and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetirizine hydrochloride .
WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydroxyzine , their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of the drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydroxyzine pamoate .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effect of alcohol may be increased .
QT Prolongation / Torsade de Pointes ( TdP ) Cases of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes have been reported during post - marketing use of hydroxyzine .
The majority of reports occurred in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation / TdP ( pre - existing heart disease , electrolyte imbalances or concomitant arrhythmogenic drug use ) .
Therefore , hydroxyzine should be used with caution in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation , congenital long QT syndrome , a family history of long QT syndrome , other conditions that predispose to QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia , as well as recent myocardial infarction , uncompensated heart failure , and bradyarrhythmias .
Caution is recommended during the concomitant use of drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
These include Class 1 A ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide ) or Class III ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol ) antiarrhythmics , certain antipsychotics ( e . g . , ziprasidone , iloperidone , clozapine , quetiapine , chlorpromazine ) , certain antidepressants ( e . g . , citalopram , fluoxetine ) , certain antibiotics ( e . g . , azithromycin , erythromycin , clarithromycin , gatifloxacin , moxifloxacin ) ; and others ( e . g . , pentamidine , methadone , ondansetron , droperidol ) .
Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) Hydroxyzine may rarely cause acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , a serious skin reaction characterized by fever and numerous small , superficial , non - follicular , sterile pustules , arising within large areas of edematous erythema .
Inform patients about the signs of AGEP , and discontinue hydroxyzine at the first appearance of a skin rash , worsening of pre - existing skin reactions which hydroxyzine may be used to treat , or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
If signs or symptoms suggest AGEP , use of hydroxyzine should not be resumed and alternative therapy should be considered .
Avoid cetirizine or levocetirizine in patients who have experienced AGEP or other hypersensitivity reactions with hydroxyzine , due to the risk of cross - sensitivity .
Geriatric Use A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydroxyzine pamoate included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydroxyzine pamoate has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydroxyzine pamoate and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydroxyzine pamoate are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Skin and Appendages Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is associated with Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) and fixed drug eruptions in post - marketing reports .
Anticholinergic Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of the dose .
Involuntary motor activity , including rare instances of tremor and convulsions , has been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
Cardiac System QT prolongation , Torsade de Pointes .
In post - marketing experience , the following additional undesirable effects have been reported : Body as a Whole Allergic reaction Nervous System Headache Psychiatric Hallucination Skin and Appendages Pruritus , rash , urticaria OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of overdosage of hydroxyzine pamoate is hypersedation .
Other reported signs and symptoms were convulsions , stupor , nausea and vomiting .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and vasopressors ( do not use epinephrine as hydroxyzine counteracts its pressor action ) .
Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP , may be used to counteract central nervous system depressant effects .
Hydroxyzine overdose may cause QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes .
ECG monitoring is recommended in cases of hydroxyzine overdose .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydroxyzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydroxyzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : in adults , 50 mg to 100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; and over 6 years , 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : in adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; and over 6 years , 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 mg to 100 mg in adults , and 0 . 6 mg / kg in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all medications , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyzine Pamoate Capsules , USP , for oral administration , are available as 25 mg ( equivalent to 25 mg hydroxyzine hydrochloride ) are light green / dark green capsules imprinted “ E 613 ” and supplied as : NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 00 NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 01 NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 02 NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 03 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK PACKAGING : 10 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC PACKAGING : 100 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense contents in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure , as required .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : hydroxyzine pamoate GENERIC : hydroxyzine pamoate DOSAGE : CAPSULE ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 0 NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 1 NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 2 NDC : 70518 - 0209 - 3 COLOR : green SHAPE : CAPSULE SCORE : No score SIZE : 16 mm IMPRINT : E613 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK PACKAGING : 10 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC PACKAGING : 100 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • HYDROXYZINE PAMOATE 25 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • TITANIUM DIOXIDE • SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE • SHELLAC • PROPYLENE GLYCOL • MAGNESIUM STEARATE • LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE • HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE ( 1200000 WAMW ) • SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO • SILICON DIOXIDE • FD & C RED NO . 40 • FD & C YELLOW NO . 6 • FD & C GREEN NO . 3 • FD & C BLUE NO . 2 • FD & C BLUE NO . 1 • D & C YELLOW NO . 10 • FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE • GELATIN , UNSPECIFIED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
