DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces nursei .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C 47 H 75 NO 17 Molecular weight : 926 . 09 g / mol Nystatin cream is for dermatologic use .
Nystatin cream , USP for topical use , contains 100 , 000 USP nystatin units per gram .
Inactive ingredients : aluminium hydroxide gel , ceteareth - 15 , mono - and di - glyceride , polyoxyl 8 stearate , propylene glycol , simethicone emulsion , sorbitol solution , titanium dioxide , white petrolatum , methylparaben and propylparaben .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Tricophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin cream is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
This cream is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin cream is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components .
PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin cream should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using these medications should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
The patient should be instructed to use these medications as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
2 .
Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
3 .
If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin cream .
It also is not known whether this cream can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin cream should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Geriatric Use Clinical studies with nystatin cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin cream is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until health is complete .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Cream , USP , 100 , 000 units per gram is a yellow to light green color cream available as follows : NDC 68071 - 2819 - 5 15 g tube STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : TORRENT PHARMACEUTICALS LTD . , Pithampur - 454775 , INDIA .
Manufactured for : TORRENT PHARMA INC . , Levittown , PA 19057 8085026 October 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
