Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • • for regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
When using this product you may have • • menstrual changes • • tiredness • • breast pain • • nausea • • headache • • vomiting • • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • • dizziness Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
• • if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose Other information • • read the instructions , warnings , and enclosed product leaflet before use • • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• • do not use if carton is open or blister seal is broken or missing • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 485 - 9917 Consumer information Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Step .
What You Need to Know What is Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg ?
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is not .
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • • you did not use any birth control method When not to use Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg .
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg should not be used : • • as a regular birth control method , because it ’ s not as effective as regular birth control .
• • if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• • if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg work ?
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg , the better it works .
How effective is Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg ?
If Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg worked ?
You will know Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• • some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• • if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• • when used as directed , Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• • if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
Other information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about it and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
Product Made in India Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 : 0C300 00 J2 Principal Display Panel See New Warning stix Restart ™ Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency contraceptive Compare to Plan B One - Step ® ’ s active ingredient Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex Not for regular birth control Actual Size One tablet One step 1 TABLET ( 1 . 5 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
