Active ingredient Povidone - iodine 7 . 5 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses ■ Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation : for preparation of the skin prior to a procedure .
Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
■ Surgical Hand Scrub : significantly reduces the number of micro - organisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care .
■ Healthcare Personnel Handwash : for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin after assisting ill persons .
Warnings For external use only Do not use in the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Surgical Hand Scrub : ■ Clean under nails with a nail pick .
■ Nails should be maintained with a 1 millimeter free edge .
■ Wet hands and forearms .
■ Apply 5 milliliters ( teaspoonful ) or palmful to hands and forearms .
■ Scrub thoroughly for 60 seconds , paying particular attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces .
■ Rinse and repeat scrub .
■ Dry with a clean towel .
Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation : ■ Clean the area .
■ Apply product to the operative site prior to surgery .
■ 1 mL ( dime size ) covers an estimated 5 ” x5 ” area .
■ Let dry 1 - 2 minutes .
Healthcare Personnel Handwash Without Water : ■ Place a smaller amount ( 3 mLs ) of product in onehand .
■ Spread over both hands to wrist and rub into the skin until dry ( approximately 30 seconds ) .
Healthcare Personnel Handwash With Water : ■ Wet clean hands and wrists .
■ Apply 3 milliliters into one hand and spread over both hands to wrist .
■ Rub thoroughly for 30 seconds .
■ Let dry for 30 seconds .
■ Rinse for 30 seconds .
■ Dry with a clean towel .
Other Information Store in a cool dry place , between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 66 ° - 77 ° F ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Allantoin , Beeswax , Benzalkonium Chloride , Butylene , Glycol , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Caprylic / Capric , Triglyceride , Cetyl Alcohol , Disodium EDTA , Distearyl , Dimonium Chloride , Emulsifying Wax , NF , Glyceryl , Laurate , Glyceryl Stearate , Hydrogenated Jojoba Esters , Laureth - 7 , Nonoxynol - 9 , Octoxynol - 9 , PCA , PEG - 100 Stearate , Polyacrylamide , Polyglyceryl - 3 Diisostearate , Polyquaternium - 7 , Purified Water , Sclerotium Gum , Stearic Acid , Triethanolamine .
Questions ?
Call ( 877 ) 710 - 6958 www . microdermis . com Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
