FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRAOCULAR INJECTION .
WARNING RENAL IMPAIRMENT IS THE MAJOR TOXICITY OF CIDOFOVIR INJECTION .
CASES OF ACUTE RENAL FAILURE RESULTING IN DIALYSIS AND / OR CONTRIBUTING TO DEATH HAVE OCCURRED WITH AS FEW AS ONE OR TWO DOSES OF CIDOFOVIR INJECTION .
TO REDUCE POSSIBLE NEPHROTOXICITY , INTRAVENOUS PREHYDRATION WITH NORMAL SALINE AND ADMINISTRATION OF PROBENECID MUST BE USED WITH EACH CIDOFOVIR INJECTION INFUSION .
RENAL FUNCTION ( SERUM CREATININE AND URINE PROTEIN ) MUST BE MONITORED WITHIN 48 HOURS PRIOR TO EACH DOSE OF CIDOFOVIR INJECTION AND THE DOSE OF CIDOFOVIR INJECTION MODIFIED FOR CHANGES IN RENAL FUNCTION AS APPROPRIATE ( SEE DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CIDOFOVIR INJECTION IS CONTRAINDICATED IN PATIENTS WHO ARE RECEIVING OTHER NEPHROTOXIC AGENTS .
NEUTROPENIA HAS BEEN OBSERVED IN ASSOCIATION WITH CIDOFOVIR INJECTION TREATMENT .
THEREFORE , NEUTROPHIL COUNTS SHOULD BE MONITORED DURING CIDOFOVIR INJECTION THERAPY .
CIDOFOVIR INJECTION IS INDICATED ONLY FOR THE TREATMENT OF CMV RETINITIS IN PATIENTS WITH ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME .
IN ANIMAL STUDIES CIDOFOVIR WAS CARCINOGENIC , TERATOGENIC AND CAUSED HYPOSPERMIA ( SEE CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY ) .
DESCRIPTION The chemical name of cidofovir is 1 - [ ( S ) - 3 - hydroxy - 2 - ( phosphonomethoxy ) propyl ] cytosine dihydrate ( HPMPC ) , with the molecular formula of C8H14N3O6P • 2H2O and a molecular weight of 315 . 22 ( 279 . 19 for anhydrous ) .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cidofovir , USP is a white crystalline powder with an aqueous solubility of ≥ 170 mg / mL at pH 6 to 8 and a log P ( octanol / aqueous buffer , pH 7 . 1 ) value of - 3 . 3 .
Cidofovir injection , USP is a sterile , hypertonic aqueous solution for intravenous infusion only .
The solution is clear and colorless .
It is supplied in clear glass vials , each containing 375 mg of anhydrous cidofovir in 5 mL aqueous solution at a concentration of 75 mg / mL .
The formulation is pH - adjusted to 7 . 4 with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid and contains no preservatives .
The appropriate volume of cidofovir injection must be removed from the single - dose vial and diluted prior to administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Cidofovir suppresses cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) replication by selective inhibition of viral DNA synthesis .
Biochemical data support selective inhibition of CMV DNA polymerase by cidofovir diphosphate , the active intracellular metabolite of cidofovir .
Cidofovir diphosphate inhibits herpesvirus polymerases at concentrations that are 8 - to 600 - fold lower than those needed to inhibit human cellular DNA polymerases alpha , beta , and gamma1 , 2 , 3 .
Incorporation of cidofovir into the growing viral DNA chain results in reductions in the rate of viral DNA synthesis .
In Vitro Susceptibility Cidofovir is active in vitro against a variety of laboratory and clinical isolates of CMV and other herpesviruses ( Table 1 ) .
Controlled clinical studies of efficacy have been limited to patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis .
Table 1 : Cidofovir Inhibition of Virus Multiplication in Cell CultureVirus IC50 ( μM ) Wild - type CMV Isolates 0 . 5 to 2 . 8 HSV - 1 , HSV - 2 12 . 7 to 31 . 7 Resistance CMV isolates with reduced susceptibility to cidofovir have been selected in vitro in the presence of high concentrations of cidofovir4 .
IC50 values for selected resistant isolates ranged from 7 to 15 μM .
There are insufficient data at this time to assess the frequency or the clinical significance of the development of resistant isolates following cidofovir injection administration to patients .
The possibility of viral resistance should be considered for patients who show a poor clinical response or experience recurrent retinitis progression during therapy .
Cross - Resistance Cidofovir - resistant isolates selected in vitro following exposure to increasing concentrations of cidofovir were assessed for susceptibility to ganciclovir and foscarnet4 .
All were cross - resistant to ganciclovir , but remained susceptible to foscarnet .
Ganciclovir - or ganciclovir / foscarnet - resistant isolates that are cross resistant to cidofovir have been obtained from drug naive patients and from patients following ganciclovir or ganciclovir / foscarnet therapy .
To date , the majority of ganciclovir - resistant isolates are UL97 gene product ( phosphokinase ) mutants and remain susceptible to cidofovir5 .
Reduced susceptibility to cidofovir , however , has been reported for DNA polymerase mutants of CMV which are resistant to ganciclovir6 – 9 .
To date , all clinical isolates which exhibit high level resistance to ganciclovir , due to mutations in both the DNA polymerase and UL97 genes , have been shown to be cross - resistant to cidofovir .
Cidofovir is active against some , but not all , CMV isolates which are resistant to foscarnet10 – 12 .
The incidence of foscarnet - resistant isolates that are resistant to cidofovir is not known .
A few triple - drug resistant isolates have been described .
Genotypic analysis of two of these triple - resistant isolates revealed several point mutations in the CMV DNA polymerase gene .
The clinical significance of the development of these cross - resistant isolates is not known .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Cidofovir injection must be administered with probenecid .
The pharmacokinetics of cidofovir , administered both without and with probenecid , are described below .
The pharmacokinetics of cidofovir without probenecid were evaluated in 27 HIV - infected patients with or without asymptomatic CMV infection .
Dose independent pharmacokinetics were demonstrated after one hr infusions of 1 ( n = 5 ) , 3 ( n = 10 ) , 5 ( n = 2 ) and 10 ( n = 8 ) mg / kg ( see Table 2 for pharmacokinetic parameters ) .
There was no evidence of cidofovir accumulation after 4 weeks of repeated administration of 3 mg / kg / week ( n = 5 ) without probenecid .
In patients with normal renal function , approximately 80 % to 100 % of the cidofovir injection dose was recovered unchanged in urine within 24 hr ( n = 27 ) .
The renal clearance of cidofovir was greater than creatinine clearance , indicating renal tubular secretion contributes to the elimination of cidofovir .
The pharmacokinetics of cidofovir administered with probenecid were evaluated in 12 HIV - infected patients with or without asymptomatic CMV infection and ten patients with relapsing CMV retinitis .
Dose independent pharmacokinetics were observed for cidofovir , administered with probenecid , after one hr infusions of 3 ( n = 12 ) , 5 ( n = 6 ) , and 7 . 5 ( n = 4 ) mg / kg ( see Table 2 ) .
Approximately 70 % to 85 % of the cidofovir injection dose administered with concomitant probenecid was excreted as unchanged drug within 24 hr .
When cidofovir injection was administered with probenecid , the renal clearance of cidofovir was reduced to a level consistent with creatinine clearance , suggesting that probenecid blocks active renal tubular secretion of cidofovir .
Table 2 : Cidofovir Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following 3 and 5 mg / kg Infusions , Without and With Probenecid [ 1 ] PARAMETERS CIDOFOVIR INJECTION ADMINISTERED WITHOUT PROBENECID CIDOFOVIR INJECTION ADMINISTERED WITH PROBENECID 3 mg / kg ( n = 10 ) 5 mg / kg ( n = 2 ) 3 mg / kg ( n = 12 ) 5 mg / kg ( n = 6 ) AUC ( mcg · hr / mL ) 20 . 0 ± 2 . 3 28 . 3 25 . 7 ± 8 . 5 40 . 8 ± 9 . 0 Cmax ( end of infusion ) ( mcg / mL ) 7 . 3 ± 1 . 4 11 . 5 9 . 8 ± 3 . 7 19 . 6 ± 7 . 2 Vdss ( mL / kg ) 537 ± 126 ( n = 12 ) 410 ± 102 ( n = 18 ) Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) 179 ± 23 . 1 ( n = 12 ) 148 ± 38 . 8 ( n = 18 ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) 150 ± 26 . 9 ( n = 12 ) 98 . 6 ± 27 . 9 ( n = 11 ) [ 1 ] See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In vitro , cidofovir was less than 6 % bound to plasma or serum proteins over the cidofovir concentration range 0 . 25 to 25 mcg / mL .
CSF concentrations of cidofovir following intravenous infusion of cidofovir injection 5 mg / kg with concomitant probenecid and intravenous hydration were undetectable ( < 0 . 1 mcg / mL , assay detection threshold ) at 15 minutes after the end of a one hr infusion in one patient whose corresponding serum concentration was 8 . 7 mcg / mL .
Drug - Drug Interactions Zidovudine The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine were evaluated in ten patients receiving zidovudine alone or with intravenous cidofovir ( without probenecid ) .
There was no evidence of an effect of cidofovir on the pharmacokinetics of zidovudine .
Special Populations Renal Insufficiency Pharmacokinetic data collected from subjects with creatinine clearance values as low as 11 mL / min indicate that cidofovir clearance decreases proportionally with creatinine clearance .
High - flux hemodialysis has been shown to reduce the serum levels of cidofovir by approximately 75 % .
Initiation of therapy with cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients with serum creatinine > 1 . 5 mg / dL , a calculated creatinine clearance ≤ 55 mL / min , or a urine protein ≥ 100 mg / dL ( equivalent to ≥ 2 + proteinuria ) ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Geriatric / Gender / Race The effects of age , gender , and race on cidofovir pharmacokinetics have not been investigated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cidofovir is indicated for the treatment of CMV retinitis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) .
THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF CIDOFOVIR INJECTION HAVE NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED FOR TREATMENT OF OTHER CMV INFECTIONS ( SUCH AS PNEUMONITIS OR GASTROENTERITIS ) , CONGENITAL OR NEONATAL CMV DISEASE , OR CMV DISEASE IN NON - HIV - INFECTED INDIVIDUALS .
DESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL TRIALS Three phase II / III controlled trials of cidofovir injection have been conducted in HIV - infected patients with CMV retinitis .
Delayed Versus Immediate Therapy ( Study 105 ) In stage 1 of this open - label trial , conducted by the Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS ( SOCA ) Clinical Research Group , 29 previously untreated patients with peripheral CMV retinitis were randomized to either immediate treatment with cidofovir injection ( 5 mg / kg once a week for 2 weeks , then 3 mg / kg every other week ) or to have cidofovir injection delayed until progression of CMV retinitis13 .
In stage 2 of this trial , an additional 35 previously untreated patients with peripheral CMV retinitis were randomized to either immediate treatment with cidofovir injection ( 5 mg / kg once a week for 2 weeks , then 5 mg / kg every other week ) , immediate treatment with cidofovir injection ( 5 mg / kg once a week for 2 weeks , then 3 mg / kg every other week ) , or to have cidofovir injection delayed until progression of CMV retinitis .
Of the 64 patients in this study , 12 were randomized to 5 mg / kg maintenance therapy , 26 to 3 mg / kg maintenance therapy , and 26 to delayed therapy .
Of the 12 patients enrolled in the 5 mg / kg maintenance group , five patients progressed , five patients discontinued therapy and two patients had no progression at study completion .
Based on masked readings of retinal photographs , the median [ 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) ] time to retinitis progression was not reached ( 25 , not reached ) for the 5 mg / kg maintenance group .
Median ( 95 % CI ) time to the alternative endpoint of retinitis progression or study drug discontinuation was 44 days ( 24 , 207 ) for the 5 mg / kg maintenance group .
Patients receiving 5 mg / kg maintenance had delayed time to retinitis progression compared to patients receiving 3 mg / kg maintenance or deferred therapy .
Delayed Versus Immediate Therapy ( Study 106 ) In an open - label trial , 48 previously untreated patients with peripheral CMV retinitis were randomized to either immediate treatment with cidofovir injection ( 5 mg / kg once a week for 2 weeks , then 5 mg / kg every other week ) , or to have cidofovir injection delayed until progression of CMV retinitis14 .
Patient baseline characteristics and disposition are shown in Table 3 .
Of 25 and 23 patients in the immediate and delayed groups respectively , 23 and 21 were evaluable for retinitis progression as determined by retinal photography .
Based on masked readings of retinal photographs , the median [ 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) ] times to retinitis progression were 120 days ( 40 , 134 ) and 22 days ( 10 , 27 ) for the immediate and delayed therapy groups , respectively .
This difference was statistically significant .
However , because of the limited number of patients remaining on treatment over time ( 3 of 25 patients received cidofovir injection for 120 days or longer ) , the median time to progression for the immediate therapy group was difficult to precisely estimate .
Median ( 95 % CI ) times to the alternative endpoint of retinitis progression or study drug discontinuation ( including adverse events , withdrawn consent , and systemic CMV disease ) were 52 days ( 37 , 85 ) and 22 days ( 13 , 27 ) for the immediate and delayed therapy groups , respectively .
This difference was statistically significant .
Time to progression estimates from this study may not be directly comparable to estimates reported for other therapies .
Table 3 : Patient Characteristics and Disposition ( Study 106 ) Immediate Therapy Delayed Therapy ( n = 25 ) ( n = 23 ) Baseline Characteristics Age ( years ) 38 38 Sex ( M / F ) 24 / 1 22 / 1 Median CD4 Cell Count 6 9 Endpoints CMV Retinitis Progression 10 18 Discontinued Due to Adverse Event 6 0 Withdrew Consent 3 [ 1 ] 1 Discontinued Due to Intercurrent Illness 2 [ 2 ] 1 null Discontinued Based on Ophthalmological Examination 1 [ 3 ] 1 null No Progression at Study Completion 1 0 Not Evaluable at Baseline 2 2 [ 1 ] One patient died 2 weeks after withdrawing consent .
[ 2 ] Two patients on immediate therapy were diagnosed with CMV disease and discontinued from study . One patient on delayed therapy was diagnosed with CMV gastrointestinal disease .
[ 3 ] CMV retinitis progression not confirmed by retinal photography .
Dose - Response Study of Cidofovir Injection ( Study 107 ) In an open - label trial , 100 patients with relapsing CMV retinitis were randomized to receive 5 mg / kg once a week for 2 weeks and then either 5 mg / kg ( n = 49 ) or 3 mg / kg ( n = 51 ) every other week .
Enrolled patients had been diagnosed with CMV retinitis an average of 390 days prior to randomization and had received a median of 3 . 8 prior courses of systemic CMV therapy .
Eighty - four of the 100 patients were considered evaluable for progression by serial retinal photographs ( 43 randomized to 5 mg / kg and 41 randomized to 3 mg / kg ) .
Twenty - six and 21 patients discontinued therapy due to either an adverse event , intercurrent illness , excluded medication , or withdrawn consent in the 5 mg / kg and 3 mg / kg groups , respectively .
Thirty - eight of the 100 randomized patients had progressed according to masked assessment of serial retinal photographs ( 13 randomized to 5 mg / kg and 25 randomized to 3 mg / kg ) .
Using retinal photographs , the median ( 95 % CI ) times to retinitis progression for the 5 mg / kg and 3 mg / kg groups were 115 days ( 70 , not reached ) and 49 days ( 35 , 52 ) , respectively .
This difference was statistically significant .
Similar to Study 106 , the median time to retinitis progression for the 5 mg / kg group was difficult to precisely estimate due to the limited number of patients remaining on treatment over time ( 4 of the 49 patients in the 5 mg / kg group were treated for 115 days or longer ) .
Median ( 95 % CI ) times to the alternative endpoint of retinitis progression or study drug discontinuation were 49 days ( 38 , 63 ) and 35 days ( 27 , 39 ) for the 5 mg / kg and 3 mg / kg groups , respectively .
This difference was statistically significant .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Initiation of therapy with cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients with a serum creatinine > 1 . 5 mg / dL , a calculated creatinine clearance ≤ 55 mL / min , or a urine protein ≥ 100 mg / dL ( equivalent to ≥ 2 + proteinuria ) .
Cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients receiving agents with nephrotoxic potential .
Such agents must be discontinued at least seven days prior to starting therapy with cidofovir injection .
Cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to cidofovir .
Cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients with a history of clinically severe hypersensitivity to probenecid or other sulfa - containing medications .
Direct intraocular injection of cidofovir injection is contraindicated ; direct injection of cidofovir has been associated with iritis , ocular hypotony , and permanent impairment of vision .
WARNINGS Nephrotoxicity Dose dependent nephrotoxicity is the major dose - limiting toxicity related to cidofovir injection administration .
Cases of acute renal failure resulting in dialysis and / or contributing to death have occurred with as few as one or two doses of cidofovir injection .
Renal function ( serum creatinine and urine protein ) must be monitored within 48 hours prior to each dose of cidofovir injection .
Dose adjustment or discontinuation is required for changes in renal function ( serum creatinine and / or urine protein ) while on therapy .
Proteinuria , as measured by urinalysis in a clinical laboratory , may be an early indicator of cidofovir injection - related nephrotoxicity .
Continued administration of cidofovir injection may lead to additional proximal tubular cell injury , which may result in glycosuria , decreases in serum phosphate , uric acid , and bicarbonate , elevations in serum creatinine , and / or acute renal failure , in some cases , resulting in the need for dialysis .
Patients with these adverse events occurring concurrently and meeting a criteria of Fanconi ' s syndrome have been reported .
Renal function that did not return to baseline after drug discontinuation has been observed in clinical studies of cidofovir injection .
Intravenous normal saline hydration and oral probenecid must accompany each cidofovir injection infusion .
Probenecid is known to interact with the metabolism or renal tubular excretion of many drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The safety of cidofovir injection has not been evaluated in patients receiving other known potentially nephrotoxic agents , such as intravenous aminoglycosides ( e . g . , tobramycin , gentamicin , and amikacin ) , amphotericin B , foscarnet , intravenous pentamidine , vancomycin , and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Preexisting Renal Impairment Initiation of therapy with cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients with a baseline serum creatinine > 1 . 5 mg / dL , a creatinine clearance ≤ 55 mL / min , or a urine protein ≥ 100 mg / dL ( equivalent to ≥ 2 + proteinuria ) .
Hematological Toxicity Neutropenia may occur during cidofovir injection therapy .
Neutrophil count should be monitored while receiving cidofovir injection therapy .
Decreased Intraocular Pressure / Ocular Hypotony Decreased intraocular pressure may occur during cidofovir injection therapy , and in some instances has been associated with decreased visual acuity .
Intraocular pressure should be monitored during cidofovir injection therapy .
Metabolic Acidosis Decreased serum bicarbonate associated with proximal tubule injury and renal wasting syndrome ( including Fanconi ' s syndrome ) have been reported in patients receiving cidofovir injection ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Cases of metabolic acidosis in association with liver dysfunction and pancreatitis resulting in death have been reported in patients receiving cidofovir injection .
PRECAUTIONS General Due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity , doses greater than the recommended dose must not be administered and the frequency or rate of administration must not be exceeded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Cidofovir injection is formulated for intravenous infusion only and must not be administered by intraocular injection .
Administration of cidofovir injection by infusion must be accompanied by oral probenecid and intravenous saline prehydration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Uveitis / Iritis Uveitis or iritis was reported in clinical trials and during postmarketing in patients receiving cidofovir injection therapy .
Treatment with topical corticosteroids with or without topical cycloplegic agents should be considered .
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of uveitis / iritis during cidofovir injection therapy .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised that cidofovir injection is not a cure for CMV retinitis , and that they may continue to experience progression of retinitis during and following treatment .
Patients receiving cidofovir injection should be advised to have regular follow - up ophthalmologic examinations .
Patients may also experience other manifestations of CMV disease despite cidofovir injection therapy .
HIV - infected patients may continue taking antiretroviral therapy , but those taking zidovudine should be advised to temporarily discontinue zidovudine administration or decrease their zidovudine dose by 50 % , on days of cidofovir injection administration only , because probenecid reduces metabolic clearance of zidovudine .
Patients should be informed of the major toxicity of cidofovir injection , namely renal impairment , and that dose modification , including reduction , interruption , and possibly discontinuation , may be required .
Close monitoring of renal function ( routine urinalysis and serum creatinine ) while on therapy should be emphasized .
The importance of completing a full course of probenecid with each cidofovir injection dose should be emphasized .
Patients should be warned of potential adverse events caused by probenecid ( e . g . , headache , nausea , vomiting , and hypersensitivity reactions ) .
Hypersensitivity / allergic reactions may include rash , fever , chills and anaphylaxis .
Administration of probenecid after a meal or use of antiemetics may decrease the nausea .
Prophylactic or therapeutic antihistamines and / or acetaminophen can be used to ameliorate hypersensitivity reactions .
Patients should be advised that cidofovir causes tumors , primarily mammary adenocarcinomas , in rats .
Cidofovir injection should be considered a potential carcinogen in humans ( see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility ) .
Women should be advised of the limited enrollment of women in clinical trials of cidofovir injection .
Patients should be advised that cidofovir injection caused reduced testes weight and hypospermia in animals .
Such changes may occur in humans and cause infertility .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised that cidofovir is embryotoxic in animals and should not be used during pregnancy .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during and for one month following treatment with cidofovir injection .
Men should be advised to practice barrier contraceptive methods during and for 3 months after treatment with cidofovir injection .
Drug Interactions Probenecid Probenecid is known to interact with the metabolism or renal tubular excretion of many drugs ( e . g . , acetaminophen , acyclovir , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , aminosalicylic acid , barbiturates , benzodiazepines , bumetanide , clofibrate , methotrexate , famotidine , furosemide , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents , theophylline , and zidovudine ) .
Concomitant medications should be carefully assessed .
Zidovudine should either be temporarily discontinued or decreased by 50 % when coadministered with probenecid on the day of cidofovir injection infusion .
Nephrotoxic Agents Concomitant administration of cidofovir injection and agents with nephrotoxic potential [ e . g . , intravenous aminoglycosides ( e . g . , tobramycin , gentamicin , and amikacin ) , amphotericin B , foscarnet , intravenous pentamidine , vancomycin , and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents ] is contraindicated .
Such agents must be discontinued at least 7 days prior to starting therapy with cidofovir injection .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Chronic , 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice have not been carried out to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of cidofovir .
However , a 26 - week toxicology study evaluating once weekly subscapular subcutaneous injections of cidofovir in rats was terminated at 19 weeks because of the induction , in females , of palpable masses , the first of which was detected after six doses .
The masses were diagnosed as mammary adenocarcinomas which developed at doses as low as 0 . 6 mg / kg / week , equivalent to 0 . 04 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended intravenous cidofovir injection dose based on AUC comparisons .
In a 26 - week intravenous toxicology study in which rats received 0 . 6 , 3 , or 15 mg / kg cidofovir once weekly , a significant increase in mammary adenocarcinomas in female rats as well as a significant incidence of Zymbal ' s gland carcinomas in male and female rats were seen at the high dose but not at the lower two doses .
The high dose was equivalent to 1 . 1 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended dose of cidofovir injection , based on comparisons of AUC measurements .
In light of the results of these studies , cidofovir should be considered to be a carcinogen in rats as well as a potential carcinogen in humans .
Cynomolgus monkeys received intravenous cidofovir , alone and in conjunction with concomitant oral probenecid , intravenously once weekly for 52 weeks at doses resulting in exposures of approximately 0 . 7 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended dose of cidofovir injection .
No tumors were detected .
However , the study was not designed as a carcinogenicity study due to the small number of animals at each dose and the short duration of treatment .
No mutagenic response was observed in microbial mutagenicity assays involving Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames ) and Escherichia coli in the presence and absence of metabolic activation .
An increase in micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in vivo was seen in mice receiving ≥ 2000 mg / kg , a dosage approximately 65 - fold higher than the maximum recommended clinical intravenous cidofovir injection dose based on body surface area estimations .
Cidofovir induced chromosomal aberrations in human peripheral blood lymphocytes in vitro without metabolic activation .
At the four cidofovir levels tested , the percentage of damaged metaphases and number of aberrations per cell increased in a concentration - dependent manner .
Studies showed that cidofovir caused inhibition of spermatogenesis in rats and monkeys .
However , no adverse effects on fertility or reproduction were seen following once weekly intravenous injections of cidofovir in male rats for 13 consecutive weeks at doses up to 15 mg / kg / week ( equivalent to 1 . 1 times the recommended human dose based on AUC comparisons ) .
Female rats dosed intravenously once weekly at 1 . 2 mg / kg / week ( equivalent to 0 . 09 times the recommended human dose based on AUC ) or higher , for up to 6 weeks prior to mating and for 2 weeks post mating had decreased litter sizes and live births per litter and increased early resorptions per litter .
Peri - and post - natal development studies in which female rats received subcutaneous injections of cidofovir once daily at doses up to 1 . 0 mg / kg / day from day 7 of gestation through day 21 postpartum ( approximately 5 weeks ) resulted in no adverse effects on viability , growth , behavior , sexual maturation or reproductive capacity in the offspring .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Cidofovir was embryotoxic ( reduced fetal body weights ) in rats at 1 . 5 mg / kg / day and in rabbits at 1 . 0 mg / kg / day , doses which were also maternally toxic , following daily intravenous dosing during the period of organogenesis .
The no - observable - effect levels for embryotoxicity in rats ( 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ) and in rabbits ( 0 . 25 mg / kg / day ) were approximately 0 . 04 and 0 . 05 times the clinical dose ( 5 mg / kg every other week ) based on AUC , respectively .
An increased incidence of fetal external , soft tissue and skeletal anomalies ( meningocele , short snout , and short maxillary bones ) occurred in rabbits at the high dose ( 1 mg / kg / day ) which was also maternally toxic .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Cidofovir injection should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether cidofovir is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for adverse reactions as well as the potential for tumorigenicity shown for cidofovir in animal studies , cidofovir injection should not be administered to nursing mothers .
The U . S . Public Health Service Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advises HIV - infected women not to breast - feed to avoid postnatal transmission of HIV to a child who may not yet be infected .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been studied .
The use of cidofovir injection in children with AIDS warrants extreme caution due to the risk of long - term carcinogenicity and reproductive toxicity .
Administration of cidofovir injection to children should be undertaken only after careful evaluation and only if the potential benefits of treatment outweigh the risks .
Geriatric Use No studies of the safety or efficacy of cidofovir injection in patients over the age of 60 have been conducted .
Since elderly individuals frequently have reduced glomerular filtration , particular attention should be paid to assessing renal function before and during cidofovir injection administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS • 1 .
Nephrotoxicity : Renal toxicity , as manifested by ≥ 2 + proteinuria , serum creatinine elevations of ≥ 0 . 4 mg / dL , or decreased creatinine clearance ≤ 55 mL / min , occurred in 79 of 135 ( 59 % ) patients receiving cidofovir injection at a maintenance dose of 5 mg / kg every other week .
Maintenance dose reductions from 5 mg / kg to 3 mg / kg due to proteinuria or serum creatinine elevations were made in 12 of 41 ( 29 % ) patients who had not received prior therapy for CMV retinitis ( Study 106 ) and in 19 of 74 ( 26 % ) patients who had received prior therapy for CMV retinitis ( Study 107 ) .
Prior foscarnet use has been associated with an increased risk of nephrotoxicity ; therefore , such patients must be monitored closely ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• 2 .
Neutropenia : In clinical trials , at the 5 mg / kg maintenance dose , a decrease in absolute neutrophil count to ≤ 500 cells / mm3 occurred in 24 % of patients .
Granulocyte colony stimulating factor ( GCSF ) was used in 39 % of patients .
• 3 .
Decreased Intraocular Pressure / Ocular Hypotony : Among the subset of patients monitored for intraocular pressure changes , a ≥ 50 % decrease from baseline intraocular pressure was reported in 17 of 70 ( 24 % ) patients at the 5 mg / kg maintenance dose .
Severe hypotony ( intraocular pressure of 0 to 1 mm Hg ) has been reported in three patients .
Risk of ocular hypotony may be increased in patients with preexisting diabetes mellitus .
• 4 .
Anterior Uveitis / Iritis : Uveitis or iritis has been reported in clinical trials and during post - marketing in patients receiving cidofovir injection therapy .
Uveitis or iritis was reported in 15 of 135 ( 11 % ) patients receiving 5 mg / kg maintenance dosing .
Treatment with topical corticosteroids with or without topical cycloplegic agents may be considered .
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of uveitis / iritis during cidofovir injection therapy .
• 5 .
Metabolic Acidosis : A diagnosis of Fanconi ' s syndrome , as manifested by multiple abnormalities of proximal renal tubular function , was reported in 1 % of patients .
Decreases in serum bicarbonate to ≤ 16 mEq / L occurred in 16 % of cidofovir - treated patients .
Cases of metabolic acidosis in association with liver dysfunction and pancreatitis resulting in death have been reported in patients receiving cidofovir injection .
In clinical trials , cidofovir injection was withdrawn due to adverse events in 39 % of patients treated with 5 mg / kg every other week as maintenance therapy .
The incidence of adverse reactions reported as serious in three controlled clinical studies in patients with CMV retinitis , regardless of presumed relationship to drug , is listed in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Serious Clinical Adverse Events or Laboratory Abnormalities Occurring in > 5 % of Patients N = 135 [ 1 ] # patients ( % ) Proteinuria ( ≥ 100 mg / dL ) 68 ( 50 ) Neutropenia ( ≤ 500 cells / mm3 ) 33 ( 24 ) Decreased Intraocular Pressure [ 2 ] 17 ( 24 ) Decreased Serum Bicarbonate ( ≤ 16 mEq / L ) 21 ( 16 ) Fever 19 ( 14 ) Infection 16 ( 12 ) Creatinine Elevation ( ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL ) 16 ( 12 ) Pneumonia 12 ( 9 ) Dyspnea 11 ( 8 ) Nausea with Vomiting 10 ( 7 ) [ 1 ] Patients receiving 5 mg / kg maintenance regimen in Studies 105 , 106 and 107 .
[ 2 ] Defined as decreased intraocular pressure ( IOP ) to ≤ 50 % that at baseline .
Based on 70 patients receiving 5 mg / kg maintenance dosing ( Studies 105 , 106 and 107 ) , for whom baseline and follow - up IOP determinations were recorded .
The most frequently reported adverse events regardless of relationship to study drugs ( cidofovir or probenecid ) or severity are shown in Table 5 .
The following additional list of adverse events / intercurrent illnesses have been observed in clinical studies of cidofovir injection and are listed below regardless of causal relationship to cidofovir injection .
Evaluation of these reports was difficult because of the diverse manifestations of the underlying disease and because most patients received numerous concomitant medicines .
Body as a Whole : abdominal pain , accidental injury , AIDS , allergic reaction , back pain , catheter blocked , cellulitis , chest pain , chills and fever , cryptococcosis , cyst , death , face edema , flu - like syndrome , hypothermia , injection site reaction , malaise , mucous membrane disorder , neck pain , overdose , photosensitivity reaction , sarcoma , sepsis Cardiovascular System : cardiomyopathy , cardiovascular disorder , congestive heart failure , hypertension , hypotension , migraine , pallor , peripheral vascular disorder , phlebitis , postural hypotension , shock , syncope , tachycardia , vascular disorder , edema Digestive System : cholangitis , colitis , constipation , esophagitis , dyspepsia , dysphagia , fecal incontinence , flatulence , gastritis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gingivitis , hepatitis , hepatomegaly , hepatosplenomegaly , jaundice , abnormal liver function , liver damage , liver necrosis , melena , pancreatitis , proctitis , rectal disorder , stomatitis , aphthous stomatitis , tongue discoloration , mouth ulceration , tooth caries Endocrine System : adrenal cortex insufficiency Hemic and Lymphatic System : hypochromic anemia , leukocytosis , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , lymphoma like reaction , pancytopenia , splenic disorder , splenomegaly , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura Metabolic and Nutritional System : cachexia , dehydration , edema , hypercalcemia , hyperglycemia , hyperkalemia , hyperlipemia , hypocalcemia , hypoglycemia , hypoglycemic reaction , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , hyponatremia , hypophosphatemia , hypoproteinemia , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased BUN , increased lactic dehydrogenase , increased SGOT , increased SGPT , peripheral edema , respiratory alkalosis , thirst , weight loss , weight gain Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , arthrosis , bone necrosis , bone pain , joint disorder , leg cramps , myalgia , myasthenia , pathological fracture Nervous System : abnormal dreams , abnormal gait , acute brain syndrome , agitation , amnesia , anxiety , ataxia , cerebrovascular disorder , confusion , convulsion , delirium , dementia , depression , dizziness , drug dependence , dry mouth , encephalopathy , facial paralysis , hallucinations , hemiplegia , hyperesthesia , hypertonia , hypotony , incoordination , increased libido , insomnia , myoclonus , nervousness , neuropathy , paresthesia , personality disorder , somnolence , speech disorder , tremor , twitching , vasodilatation , vertigo Respiratory System : asthma , bronchitis , epistaxis , hemoptysis , hiccup , hyperventilation , hypoxia , increased sputum , larynx edema , lung disorder , pharyngitis , pneumothorax , rhinitis , sinusitis Skin and Appendages : acne , angioedema , dry skin , eczema , exfoliative dermatitis , furunculosis , herpes simplex , nail disorder , pruritus , rash , seborrhea , skin discoloration , skin disorder , skin hypertrophy , skin ulcer , sweating , urticaria Special Senses : abnormal vision , amblyopia , blindness , cataract , conjunctivitis , corneal lesion , corneal opacity , diplopia , dry eyes , ear disorder , ear pain , eye disorder , eye pain , hyperacusis , iritis , keratitis , miosis , otitis externa , otitis media , refraction disorder , retinal detachment , retinal disorder , taste perversion , tinnitus , uveitis , visual field defect , hearing loss Urogenital System : decreased creatinine clearance , dysuria , glycosuria , hematuria , kidney stone , mastitis , metorrhagia , nocturia , polyuria , prostatic disorder , toxic nephrophathy , urethritis , urinary casts , urinary incontinence , urinary retention , urinary tract infection Table 5 : All Clinical Adverse Events , Laboratory Abnormalities or Intercurrent Illnesses Regardless of Severity Occurring in > 15 % of Patients N = 115 [ 1 ] # patients ( % ) Any Adverse Event 115 ( 100 ) Proteinuria ( ≥ 30 mg / dL ) 101 ( 88 ) Nausea + / - Vomiting 79 ( 69 ) Fever 67 ( 58 ) Neutropenia ( < 750 cells / mm3 ) 50 ( 43 ) Asthenia 50 ( 43 ) Headache 34 ( 30 ) Rash 34 ( 30 ) Infection 32 ( 28 ) Alopecia 31 ( 27 ) Diarrhea 30 ( 26 ) Pain 29 ( 25 ) Creatinine Elevation ( > 1 . 5 mg / dL ) 28 ( 24 ) Anemia 28 ( 24 ) Anorexia 26 ( 23 ) Dyspnea 26 ( 23 ) Chills 25 ( 22 ) Increased Cough 22 ( 19 ) Oral Moniliasis 21 ( 18 ) [ 1 ] Patients receiving 5 mg / kg maintenance regimen in Studies 106 and 107 .
Reporting of Adverse Reactions To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Drug Safety at 1 - 888 - 875 - 1671 or FDA Medwatch at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Two cases of cidofovir overdose have been reported .
These patients received single doses of cidofovir injection at 16 . 3 mg / kg and 17 . 4 mg / kg , respectively , with concomitant oral probenecid and intravenous hydration .
In both cases , the patients were hospitalized and received oral probenecid ( one gram 3 times daily ) and vigorous intravenous hydration with normal saline for 3 to 5 days .
Significant changes in renal function were not observed in either patient .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CIDOFOVIR INJECTION MUST NOT BE ADMINISTERED BY INTRAOCULAR INJECTION .
Dosage THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE , FREQUENCY , OR INFUSION RATE MUST NOT BE EXCEEDED .
CIDOFOVIR INJECTION MUST BE DILUTED IN 100 MILLILITERS 0 . 9 % ( NORMAL ) SALINE PRIOR TO ADMINISTRATION .
TO MINIMIZE POTENTIAL NEPHROTOXICITY , PROBENECID AND INTRAVENOUS SALINE PREHYDRATION MUST BE ADMINISTERED WITH EACH CIDOFOVIR INJECTION INFUSION .
Induction Treatment The recommended induction dose of cidofovir injection for patients with a serum creatinine of ≤ 1 . 5 mg / dL , a calculated creatinine clearance > 55 mL / min , and a urine protein < 100 mg / dL ( equivalent to < 2 + proteinuria ) is 5 mg / kg body weight ( given as an intravenous infusion at a constant rate over 1 hr ) administered once weekly for two consecutive weeks .
Because serum creatinine in patients with advanced AIDS and CMV retinitis may not provide a complete picture of the patient ' s underlying renal status , it is important to utilize the Cockcroft - Gault formula to more precisely estimate creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) .
As creatinine clearance is dependent on serum creatinine and patient weight , it is necessary to calculate clearance prior to initiation of cidofovir injection .
CrCl ( mL / min ) should be calculated according to the following formula : Creatinine clearance for males = [ 140 - age ( years ) ] × [ body wt ( kg ) ] 72 × [ serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) ] Creatinine clearance for females = [ 140 - age ( years ) ] × [ body wt ( kg ) ] × 0 . 85 72 × [ serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) ] Maintenance Treatment The recommended maintenance dose of cidofovir injection is 5 mg / kg body weight ( given as an intravenous infusion at a constant rate over one hr ) , administered once every 2 weeks .
Dose Adjustment Changes in Renal Function During Cidofovir Injection Therapy The maintenance dose of cidofovir injection must be reduced from 5 mg / kg to 3 mg / kg for an increase in serum creatinine of 0 . 3 to 0 . 4 mg / dL above baseline .
Cidofovir injection therapy must be discontinued for an increase in serum creatinine of ≥ 0 . 5 mg / dL above baseline or development of ≥ 3 + proteinuria .
Preexisting Renal Impairment Cidofovir injection is contraindicated in patients with a serum creatinine concentration > 1 . 5 mg / dL , a calculated creatinine clearance ≤ 55 mL / min , or a urine protein ≥ 100 mg / dL ( equivalent to ≥ 2 + proteinuria ) .
Probenecid Probenecid must be administered orally with each cidofovir injection dose .
Two grams must be administered 3 hr prior to the cidofovir injection dose and one gram administered at 2 and again at 8 hr after completion of the one hr cidofovir injection infusion ( for a total of 4 grams ) .
Ingestion of food prior to each dose of probenecid may reduce drug - related nausea and vomiting .
Administration of an antiemetic may reduce the potential for nausea associated with probenecid ingestion .
In patients who develop allergic or hypersensitivity symptoms to probenecid , the use of an appropriate prophylactic or therapeutic antihistamine and / or acetaminophen should be considered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hydration Patients must receive at least one liter of 0 . 9 % ( normal ) saline solution intravenously with each infusion of cidofovir injection .
The saline solution should be infused over a 1 to 2 hr period immediately before the cidofovir injection infusion .
Patients who can tolerate the additional fluid load should receive a second liter .
If administered , the second liter of saline should be initiated either at the start of the cidofovir injection infusion or immediately afterwards , and infused over a 1 to 3 hr period .
Method of Preparation and Administration Inspect vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
If particulate matter or discoloration is observed , the vial should not be used .
With a syringe , extract the appropriate volume of cidofovir injection from the vial and transfer the dose to an infusion bag containing 100 mL 0 . 9 % ( normal ) saline solution .
Infuse the entire volume intravenously into the patient at a constant rate over a one hr period .
Use of a standard infusion pump for administration is recommended .
It is recommended that cidofovir injection infusion admixtures be administered within 24 hr of preparation and that refrigerator or freezer storage not be used to extend this 24 hr limit .
If admixtures are not intended for immediate use , they may be stored under refrigeration ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) for no more than 24 hr .
Refrigerated admixtures should be allowed to equilibrate to room temperature prior to use .
The chemical stability of cidofovir injection admixtures was demonstrated in polyvinyl chloride composition and ethylene / propylene copolymer composition commercial infusion bags , and in glass bottles .
No data are available to support the addition of other drugs or supplements to the cidofovir admixture for concurrent administration .
Cidofovir injection is supplied in single - dose vials .
Partially used vials should be discarded ( see Handling and Disposal ) .
Compatibility with Ringer ' s solution , Lactated Ringer ' s solution or bacteriostatic infusion fluids has not been evaluated .
Handling and Disposal Due to the mutagenic properties of cidofovir , adequate precautions including the use of appropriate safety equipment are recommended for the preparation , administration , and disposal of cidofovir injection .
The National Institutes of Health presently recommends that such agents be prepared in a Class II laminar flow biological safety cabinet and that personnel preparing drugs of this class wear surgical gloves and a closed front surgical - type gown with knit cuffs .
If cidofovir injection contacts the skin , wash membranes and flush thoroughly with water .
Excess cidofovir injection and all other materials used in the admixture preparation and administration should be placed in a leak - proof , puncture - proof container .
The recommended method of disposal is high temperature incineration .
Patient Monitoring Serum creatinine and urine protein must be monitored within 48 hours prior to each dose .
White blood cell counts with differential should be monitored prior to each dose .
In patients with proteinuria , intravenous hydration should be administered and the test repeated .
Intraocular pressure , visual acuity and ocular symptoms should be monitored periodically .
HOW SUPPLIED Cidofovir Injection USP , 75 mg per mL , for intravenous infusion , is available in : NDC 67457 - 210 - 05 5 mL ( 375 mg ) single - dose vial , packaged individually .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Preservative Free Sterile , Nonpyrogenic Discard unused portion .
REFERENCES • 1 .
Ho HT , Woods KL , Bronson JJ , De Boeck H , Martin JC and Hitchcock MJM .
Intracellular Metabolism of the Antiherpesvirus Agent ( S ) - 1 - [ 3 - hydroxy - 2 - ( phosphonylmethoxy ) propyl ] cytosine .
Mol Pharmacol 41 : 197 – 202 , 1992 .
• 2 .
Cherrington JM , Allen SJW , McKee BH , and Chen MS . Kinetic Analysis of the Interaction Between the Diphosphate of ( S ) - 1 - ( 3 - hydroxy - 2 - phosphonylmethoxypropyl ) cytosine , zalcitabineTP , zidovudineTP , and FIAUTP with Human DNA Polymerases b and g . Biochem Pharmacol 48 : 1986 – 1988 , 1994 .
• 3 .
Xiong X , Smith JL , Kim C , Huang E , and Chen MS . Kinetic Analysis of the Interaction of Cidofovir Diphosphate with Human Cytomegalovirus DNA Polymerase .
Biochem Pharmacol 51 : 1563 – 1567 , 1996 .
• 4 .
Cherrington JM , Mulato AS , Fuller MD , Chen MS . In Vitro Selection of a Human Cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) that is Resistant to Cidofovir .
35 th International Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy ( ICAAC ) , San Francisco , CA .
Abstract H117 , 1995 .
• 5 .
Stanat SC , Reardon JE , Erice A , Jordan MC , Drew WL , and Biron KK .
Ganciclovir - Resistant Cytomegalovirus Clinical Isolates : Mode of Resistance to Ganciclovir .
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 35 : 2191 – 2197 , 1991 .
• 6 .
Sullivan V , Biron KK , Talarico C , Stanat SC , Davis M , Pozzi M , and Coen DM .
A Point Mutation in the Human Cytomegalovirus DNA Polymerase Gene Confers Resistance to Ganciclovir and phosphonylmethoxyalkyl Derivatives .
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 37 : 19 – 25 , 1993 .
• 7 .
Tatarowicz WA , Lurain NS , and Thompson KD .
A Ganciclovir - Resistant Clinical Isolate of Human Cytomegalovirus Exhibiting Cross - Resistance to other DNA Polymerase Inhibitors .
J Infect Dis 166 : 904 – 907 , 1992 .
• 8 .
Lurain NS , Thompson KD , Holmes EW , and Read GS .
Point Mutations in the DNA Polymerase Gene of Human Cytomegalovirus that Result in Resistance to Antiviral Agents .
J Virol 66 : 7146 – 7152 , 1992 .
• 9 .
Smith IL , Cherrington JM , Jiles RE , Fuller MD , Freeman WR , Spector SA .
High - level Resistance of Cytomegalovirus to Ganciclovir is Associated with Alterations in both the UL97 and DNA Polymerase Genes .
J Infect Dis 176 : 69 – 77 , 1997 .
• 10 .
Sullivan V and Coen DM .
Isolation of Foscarnet - Resistant Human Cytomegalovirus Patterns of Resistance and Sensitivity to Other Antiviral Drugs .
J Infect Dis 164 : 781 – 784 , 1991 .
• 11 .
Snoeck R , Andrei G , and De Clercq E . Patterns of Resistance and Sensitivity to Antiviral Compounds of Drug - Resistant Strains of Human Cytomegalovirus Selected in Vitro .
Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis 15 : 574 – 579 , 1996 .
• 12 .
Baldanti F , Underwood MR , Stanat SC , Biron KK , Chou S , Sarasini A , Silini E , and Gerna G . Single Amino Acid Changes in the DNA Polymerase Confer Foscarnet Resistance and Slow - Growth Phenotype , While Mutations in the UL97 - Encoded Phosphotransferase Confer Ganciclovir Resistance in Three Double - Resistant Human Cytomegalovirus Strains Recovered from Patients with AIDS .
J Virol 70 : 1390 – 1395 , 1996 .
• 13 .
The Studies of Ocular Complications of AIDS Research Group in Collaboration with the AIDS Clinical Trials Group .
Cidofovir ( HPMPC ) for the Treatment of Cytomegalovirus Retinitis in Patients with AIDS : the HPMPC Peripheral Cytomegalovirus Retinitis Trial .
Ann Intern Med 126 : 264 – 274 , 1997 .
• 14 .
Lalezari JP , Stagg RJ , Kupperman BD , et al .
Intravenous Cidofovir for Peripheral Cytomegalovirus Retinitis in Patients with AIDS .
A Randomized , Controlled Trial .
Ann Intern Med 126 : 257 – 263 , 1997 .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland 0782L103 Revised : 4 / 2021 MI : CIDOIJ : R4 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 375 mg / 5 mL NDC 67457 - 210 - 05 5 mL Cidofovir Injection , USP 375 mg / 5 mL ( 75 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Only DILUTE BEFORE USE Not for Intraocular Injection Rx only Single - Dose Vial Preservative Free Sterile .
Non - pyrogenic .
Discard unused portion .
Each mL contains : cidofovir , USP ( anhydrous ) , 75 mg ; water for injection , q . s . Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may have been added for pH adjustment .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland Mylan . com MI : 210 : 1 C : R4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
