Active Ingredients Titanium Dioxide 3 % , Zinc Oxide 3 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Allantoin , Alumina , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Camellia Oleifera ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Cannabidiol , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Extract , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Hexyl Laurate , Linum Usitatissimum ( Linseed ) Seed Oil , Oenothera Biennis ( Evening Primrose ) Oil , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Plankton Extract , Polyglyceryl - 4 Isostearate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Rosa Canina Seed Oil , Silica , Stearic Acid , Tocopheryl Acetate , Water Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
• Avoid contact with fabrics - could cause discoloration .
Questions or comments ?
hello @ leablack . com Lea Black Sunscreen Lotion 250 mg CBD Broad Spectrum SPF 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
