GENERAL : This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
This product is a keratolytic emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for skin .
Each gram contains 390 mg of urea in a vehicle consisting of : carbomer , cetyl alcohol , dimethyl isosorbide , glyceryl stearate , mineral oil , petrolatum , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , water , and xanthan gum .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS : This product is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , xerosis , ichthyosis , skin cracks and fissures , dermatitis , eczema , psoriasis , keratoses and calluses .
This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the use of this product .
Apply to affected area ( s ) twice per day or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
8 oz .
( 227 g ) bottles , NDC 44523 - 801 - 08 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 866 ) 762 - 2365 .
Manufactured for : BIOCOMP PHARMA , INC .
San Antonio , TX 78230 1355 2100669 [ 00 ] R1021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
