Active ingredients Menthol 4 . 09 % ................................. External analgesic Camphor 4 . 09 % .................
… … … .
… … .
External analgesic Do not use otherwise than as directed Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away If pregnant If pregnant , ask a health professional before use Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• Children under 12 years of age : Do not use or consult a doctor .
Other information store at room temperature , 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) Inactive ingredients Aconitum kusnezoffii , Alocasia macrorrhiza , Angelica dahurica , Angelica pubescens , Ardisia crenata , Ardisia gigantifolia , Artocarpus styracifolius , Calophyllum membranaceum , Clematis chinensis , Cudrania cochinchinensis , Curcuma phaeocaulis , Cyathula officinalis , Cynanchum paniculatum , Ethanol , Eucommia ulmoides , Eupolyphaga sinensis , Kadsura coccinea , Millettia pulchra , Periploca sepium , Piper wallichii , Polygonum cuspidatum , Sarcandra glabra , Sparganium stoloniferum , Spatholobus suberectus Questions ?
+ 1 - 888 - 915 - 6789 M - F 9 am to 5 pm Pacific Time You may report serious side effects to this phone number .
Purpose External analgesic Do not use • on wounds • irritated or damaged skin • sensitive skin • with a heating pad • if pregnant • with , or at the same time as , other external analgesic products • if allergic to any ingredients of this product When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not use 1 hour before or after bathing Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • eexcessive irritation of the skin develops • redness is present Warnings For external use only Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains • simple backache PDP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
