Active ingredient ( in each film - coated tablet ) Fexofenadine HCL 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • each tablet contain : sodium 8 mg • store between 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture • this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 2 Inactive ingredients anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch ( maize ) , red iron oxide , stearic acid , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide Questions or comments ?
Call : 1 - 800 - 616 - 2471 Principal Display Panel COMPARE TO the active ingredient in ALLEGRA ® ALLERGY 24 HOUR * FEXOFENADINE HYDROCHLORIDE USP 180 mg Antihistamine ALLERGY RELIEF 24 - HOUR Relief of : • sneezing • Runny nose • Itchy , watery eyes • Itchy nose or throat Indoor and Outdoor Allergy Relief Non - Drowsy Capsule Shaped Tablets * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem Inc . , distributor of Allegra ® Allergy 24 hour TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Distributed by : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS 17177 N Laurel Park Drive , Suite 233 Livonia , MI 48152 Product Label NDC : 70934 - 629 - 90 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
