1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Stimufend is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection , as manifested by febrile neutropenia , in patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti - cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Stimufend is a leukocyte growth factor indicated to decrease the incidence of infection , as manifested by febrile neutropenia , in patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti - cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia .
( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of Use Stimufend is not indicated for the mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
Limitations of Use Stimufend is not indicated for the mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Patients with cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy • 6 mg administered subcutaneously once per chemotherapy cycle .
( 2 . 1 ) • Do not administer between 14 days before and 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy .
( 2 . 1 ) • Use weight based dosing for pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg ; refer to Table 1 .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy The recommended dosage of Stimufend is a single subcutaneous injection of 6 mg administered once per chemotherapy cycle .
For dosing in pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg , refer to Table 1 .
Do not administer Stimufend between 14 days before and 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy .
2 . 2 Administration Stimufend is administered subcutaneously via a single - dose prefilled syringe for manual use .
Prior to use , remove the carton from the refrigerator and allow the Stimufend prefilled syringe to reach room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes .
Discard any prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 72 hours .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer Stimufend if discoloration or particulates are observed .
The needle cap on the pre - filled syringes contains dry natural rubber ( derived from latex ) ; persons with latex allergies should not administer these products .
Pediatric Patients weighing less than 45 kg The Stimufend pre - filled syringe is not designed to allow for direct administration of doses less than 0 . 6 mL ( 6 mg ) .
The syringe does not bear graduation marks , which are necessary to accurately measure doses of Stimufend less than 0 . 6 mL ( 6 mg ) for direct administration to patients .
Thus , the direct administration to patients requiring dosing of less than 0 . 6 mL ( 6 mg ) is not recommended due to the potential for dosing errors .
Refer to Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Dosing of Stimufend for Pediatric Patients Weighing Less Than 45 kg * For pediatric patients weighing less than 10 kg , administer 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 0 . 01 mL / kg ) of Stimufend .
Body Weight Stimufend Dose Volume to Administer Less than 10 kg * See below * See below * 10 - 20 kg 1 . 5 mg 0 . 15 mL 21 - 30 kg 2 . 5 mg 0 . 25 mL 31 - 44 kg 4 mg 0 . 4 mL 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Stimufend is a clear , colorless , preservative - free solution available as : • Injection : 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL in a single - dose pre - filled syringe for manual use only .
Injection : 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL solution in a single - dose pre - filled syringe for manual use only .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Stimufend is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to pegfilgrastim products or filgrastim products .
Reactions have included anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to human granulocyte colony - stimulating factors such as pegfilgrastim products or filgrastim products .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fatal splenic rupture : Evaluate patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture .
( 5 . 1 ) • Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) : Evaluate patients who develop fever , lung infiltrates , or respiratory distress .
Discontinue Stimufend in patients with ARDS .
( 5 . 2 ) • Serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis : Permanently discontinue Stimufend in patients with serious allergic reactions .
( 5 . 3 ) • Fatal sickle cell crises : Discontinue Stimufend if sickle cell crisis occurs .
( 5 . 4 ) • Glomerulonephritis : Evaluate and consider dose - reduction or interruption of Stimufend if causality is likely .
( 5 . 5 ) • Thrombocytopenia : Monitor platelet counts .
( 5 . 7 ) • Myelodysplastic Syndrome ( MDS ) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) : Monitor patients with breast and lung cancer using Stimufend in conjunction with chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy for signs and symptoms of MDS / AML .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Splenic Rupture Splenic rupture , including fatal cases , can occur following the administration of pegfilgrastim products .
Evaluate for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture in patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain after receiving Stimufend .
5 . 2 Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) can occur in patients receiving pegfilgrastim products .
Evaluate patients who develop fever and lung infiltrates or respiratory distress after receiving Stimufend for ARDS .
Discontinue Stimufend in patients with ARDS .
5 . 3 Serious Allergic Reactions Serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , can occur in patients receiving pegfilgrastim products .
The majority of reported events occurred upon initial exposure .
Allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , can recur within days after the discontinuation of initial anti - allergic treatment .
Permanently discontinue Stimufend in patients with serious allergic reactions .
Do not administer Stimufend to patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to pegfilgrastim products or filgrastim products .
5 . 4 Use in Patients with Sickle Cell Disorders Severe and sometimes fatal sickle cell crises can occur in patients with sickle cell disorders receiving pegfilgrastim products .
Discontinue Stimufend if sickle cell crisis occurs .
5 . 5 Glomerulonephritis Glomerulonephritis has occurred in patients receiving pegfilgrastim products .
The diagnoses were based upon azotemia , hematuria ( microscopic and macroscopic ) , proteinuria , and renal biopsy .
Generally , events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose - reduction or discontinuation of pegfilgrastim products .
If glomerulonephritis is suspected , evaluate for cause .
If causality is likely , consider dose - reduction or interruption of Stimufend .
5 . 6 Leukocytosis White blood cell ( WBC ) counts of 100 x 109 / L or greater have been observed in patients receiving pegfilgrastim products .
Monitoring of complete blood count ( CBC ) during Stimufend therapy is recommended .
5 . 7 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia has been reported in patients receiving pegfilgrastim products .
Monitor platelet counts .
5 . 8 Capillary Leak Syndrome Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after G - CSF administration , including pegfilgrastim products , and is characterized by hypotension , hypoalbuminemia , edema and hemoconcentration .
Episodes vary in frequency , severity and may be life - threatening if treatment is delayed .
Patients who develop symptoms of capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment , which may include a need for intensive care .
5 . 9 Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells The granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G - CSF ) receptor through which pegfilgrastim products and filgrastim products act has been found on tumor cell lines .
The possibility that pegfilgrastim products act as a growth factor for any tumor type , including myeloid malignancies and myelodysplasia , diseases for which pegfilgrastim products are not approved , cannot be excluded .
5 . 10 Myelodysplastic Syndrome ( MDS ) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) in Patients with Breast and Lung Cancer MDS and AML have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim products in conjunction with chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy in patients with breast and lung cancer .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of MDS / AML in these settings .
5 . 11 Aortitis Aortitis has been reported in patients receiving pegfilgrastim products .
It may occur as early as the first week after start of therapy .
Manifestations may include generalized signs and symptoms such as fever , abdominal pain , malaise , back pain , and increased inflammatory markers ( e . g . , c - reactive protein and white blood cell count ) .
Consider aortitis in patients who develop these signs and symptoms without known etiology .
Discontinue Stimufend if aortitis is suspected .
5 . 12 Nuclear Imaging Increased hematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been associated with transient positive bone imaging changes .
This should be considered when interpreting bone imaging results .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Splenic Rupture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Serious Allergic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Use in Patients with Sickle Cell Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Glomerulonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Leukocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Capillary Leak Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Myelodysplastic syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Acute myeloid leukemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Aortitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % difference in incidence compared to placebo ) are bone pain and pain in extremity .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Pegfilgrastim clinical trials safety data are based upon 932 patients receiving pegfilgrastim in seven randomized clinical trials .
The population was 21 to 88 years of age and 92 % female .
The ethnicity was 75 % Caucasian , 18 % Hispanic , 5 % Black , and 1 % Asian .
Patients with breast ( n = 823 ) , lung and thoracic tumors ( n = 53 ) and lymphoma ( n = 56 ) received pegfilgrastim after nonmyeloablative cytotoxic chemotherapy .
Most patients received a single 100 mcg / kg ( n = 259 ) or a single 6 mg ( n = 546 ) dose per chemotherapy cycle over 4 cycles .
The following adverse reaction data in Table 2 are from a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in patients with metastatic or non - metastatic breast cancer receiving docetaxel 100 mg / m2 every 21 days ( Study 3 ) .
A total of 928 patients were randomized to receive either 6 mg pegfilgrastim ( n = 467 ) or placebo ( n = 461 ) .
The patients were 21 to 88 years of age and 99 % female .
The ethnicity was 66 % Caucasian , 31 % Hispanic , 2 % Black , and < 1 % Asian , Native American , or other .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of patients and with a between - group difference of ≥ 5 % higher in the pegfilgrastim arm in placebo - controlled clinical trials are bone pain and pain in extremity .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions with ≥ 5 % Higher Incidence in Pegfilgrastim Patients Compared to Placebo in Study 3 Body System Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 461 ) Pegfilgrastim 6 mg SC on Day 2 ( N = 467 ) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Bone pain 26 % 31 % Pain in extremity 4 % 9 % Leukocytosis In clinical studies , leukocytosis ( WBC counts > 100 x 109 / L ) was observed in less than 1 % of 932 patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving pegfilgrastim .
No complications attributable to leukocytosis were reported in clinical studies .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other pegfilgrastim products may be misleading .
Binding antibodies to pegfilgrastim were detected using a BIAcore assay .
The approximate limit of detection for this assay is 500 ng / mL .
Pre - existing binding antibodies were detected in approximately 6 % ( 51 / 849 ) of patients with metastatic breast cancer .
Four of 521 pegfilgrastim - treated subjects who were negative at baseline developed binding antibodies to pegfilgrastim following treatment .
None of these 4 patients had evidence of neutralizing antibodies detected using a cell - based bioassay .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of pegfilgrastim products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Splenic rupture and splenomegaly ( enlarged spleen ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Allergic reactions / hypersensitivity , including anaphylaxis , skin rash , urticaria , generalized erythema , and flushing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Sickle cell crisis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Glomerulonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Leukocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Capillary Leak Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Injection site reactions • Sweet ' s syndrome ( acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ) , cutaneous vasculitis • Myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) and acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) in patients with breast and lung cancer receiving chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Aortitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Alveolar hemorrhage 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Although available data with Stimufend or pegfilgrastim product use in pregnant women are insufficient to establish whether there is a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes , there are available data from published studies in pregnant women exposed to filgrastim products .
These studies have not established an association of filgrastim product use during pregnancy with major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal studies , no evidence of reproductive / developmental toxicity occurred in the offspring of pregnant rats that received cumulative doses of pegfilgrastim approximately 10 times the recommended human dose ( based on body surface area ) .
In pregnant rabbits , increased embryolethality and spontaneous abortions occurred at 4 times the maximum recommended human dose simultaneously with signs of maternal toxicity ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Pregnant rabbits were dosed with pegfilgrastim subcutaneously every other day during the period of organogenesis .
At cumulative doses ranging from the approximate human dose to approximately 4 times the recommended human dose ( based on body surface area ) , the treated rabbits exhibited decreased maternal food consumption , maternal weight loss , as well as reduced fetal body weights and delayed ossification of the fetal skull ; however , no structural anomalies were observed in the offspring from either study .
Increased incidences of post - implantation losses and spontaneous abortions ( more than half the pregnancies ) were observed at cumulative doses approximately 4 times the recommended human dose , which were not seen when pregnant rabbits were exposed to the recommended human dose .
Three studies were conducted in pregnant rats dosed with pegfilgrastim at cumulative doses up to approximately 10 times the recommended human dose at the following stages of gestation : during the period of organogenesis , from mating through the first half of pregnancy , and from the first trimester through delivery and lactation .
No evidence of fetal loss or structural malformations was observed in any study .
Cumulative doses equivalent to approximately 3 and 10 times the recommended human dose resulted in transient evidence of wavy ribs in fetuses of treated mothers ( detected at the end of gestation but no longer present in pups evaluated at the end of lactation ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of pegfilgrastim products in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Other filgrastim products are secreted poorly into breast milk , and filgrastim products are not absorbed orally by neonates .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Stimufend and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Stimufend or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of pegfilgrastim have been established in pediatric patients .
No overall differences in safety were identified between adult and pediatric patients based on postmarketing surveillance and review of the scientific literature .
Use of pegfilgrastim in pediatric patients for chemotherapy - induced neutropenia is based on adequate and well - controlled studies in adults with additional pharmacokinetic and safety data in pediatric patients with sarcoma [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 932 patients with cancer who received pegfilgrastim in clinical studies , 139 ( 15 % ) were aged 65 and over , and 18 ( 2 % ) were aged 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between patients aged 65 and older and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of pegfilgrastim products may result in leukocytosis and bone pain .
Events of edema , dyspnea , and pleural effusion have been reported in a single patient who administered pegfilgrastim on 8 consecutive days in error .
In the event of overdose , the patient should be monitored for adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Pegfilgrastim - fpgk is a covalent conjugate of recombinant methionyl human G - CSF and monomethoxy polyethylene glycol .
Recombinant methionyl human G - CSF is a water - soluble 175 amino acid protein with a molecular weight of approximately 19 kilodaltons ( kD ) .
Recombinant methionyl human G - CSF is obtained from the bacterial fermentation of a strain of E coli transformed with a genetically engineered plasmid containing the human G - CSF gene .
To produce pegfilgrastim - fpgk , a 20 kD monomethoxy polyethylene glycol molecule is covalently bound to the N - terminal methionyl residue of recombinant methionyl human G - CSF .
The average molecular weight of pegfilgrastim - fpgk is approximately 39 kD .
Stimufend ( pegfilgrastim - fpgk ) injection is supplied in 0 . 6 mL pre - filled syringes for manual subcutaneous injection .
The pre - filled syringe does not bear graduation marks and is designed to deliver the entire contents of the syringe ( 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL ) .
The delivered 0 . 6 mL dose from the prefilled syringe contains 6 mg pegfilgrastim - fpgk ( based on protein weight ) in a sterile , clear , colorless , preservative - free solution ( pH 4 . 0 ) containing acetate ( 0 . 35 mg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 0 . 02 mg ) , sodium ( 0 . 02 mg ) , and sorbitol ( 30 mg ) in Water for Injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pegfilgrastim products are colony - stimulating factors that act on hematopoietic cells by binding to specific cell surface receptors , thereby stimulating proliferation , differentiation , commitment , and end cell functional activation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Animal data and clinical data in humans suggest a correlation between pegfilgrastim products ' exposure and the duration of severe neutropenia as a predictor of efficacy .
Selection of the dosing regimen of Stimufend is based on reducing the duration of severe neutropenia .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim was studied in 379 patients with cancer .
The pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim was nonlinear , and clearance decreased with increases in dose .
Neutrophil receptor binding is an important component of the clearance of pegfilgrastim , and serum clearance is directly related to the number of neutrophils .
In addition to numbers of neutrophils , body weight appeared to be a factor .
Patients with higher body weights experienced higher systemic exposure to pegfilgrastim after receiving a dose normalized for body weight .
A large variability in the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim was observed .
The half - life of pegfilgrastim ranged from 15 to 80 hours after subcutaneous injection .
Specific Populations No gender - related differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim , and no differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of geriatric patients ( ≥ 65 years of age ) compared with younger patients ( < 65 years of age ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Impairment In a study of 30 subjects with varying degrees of renal dysfunction , including end stage renal disease , renal dysfunction had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim .
Pediatric Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy The pharmacokinetics and safety of pegfilgrastim were studied in 37 pediatric patients with sarcoma in Study 4 [ see Clinical Studies 14 . 1 ] .
The mean ( ± standard deviation [ SD ] ) systemic exposure ( AUC0 - inf ) of pegfilgrastim after subcutaneous administration at 100 mcg / kg was 47 . 9 ( ± 22 . 5 ) mcg · hr / mL in the youngest age group ( 0 to 5 years , n = 11 ) , 22 . 0 ( ± 13 . 1 ) mcg · hr / mL in the 6 to 11 years age group ( n = 10 ) , and 29 . 3 ( ± 23 . 2 ) mcg · hr / mL in the 12 to 21 years age group ( n = 13 ) .
The terminal elimination half - lives of the corresponding age groups were 30 . 1 ( ± 38 . 2 ) hours , 20 . 2 ( ± 11 . 3 ) hours , and 21 . 2 ( ± 16 . 0 ) hours , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity or mutagenesis studies have been performed with pegfilgrastim products .
Pegfilgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats at cumulative weekly doses approximately 6 to 9 times higher than the recommended human dose ( based on body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy Pegfilgrastim was evaluated in three randomized , double - blind , controlled studies .
Studies 1 and 2 were active - controlled studies that employed doxorubicin 60 mg / m2 and docetaxel 75 mg / m2 administered every 21 days for up to 4 cycles for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer .
Study 1 investigated the utility of a fixed dose of pegfilgrastim .
Study 2 employed a weight - adjusted dose .
In the absence of growth factor support , similar chemotherapy regimens have been reported to result in a 100 % incidence of severe neutropenia ( ANC < 0 . 5 x 109 / L ) with a mean duration of 5 to 7 days and a 30 % to 40 % incidence of febrile neutropenia .
Based on the correlation between the duration of severe neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia found in studies with filgrastim , duration of severe neutropenia was chosen as the primary endpoint in both studies , and the efficacy of pegfilgrastim was demonstrated by establishing comparability to filgrastim - treated patients in the mean days of severe neutropenia .
In Study 1 , 157 patients were randomized to receive a single subcutaneous injection of pegfilgrastim ( 6 mg ) on day 2 of each chemotherapy cycle or daily subcutaneous filgrastim ( 5 mcg / kg / day ) beginning on day 2 of each chemotherapy cycle .
In Study 2 , 310 patients were randomized to receive a single subcutaneous injection of pegfilgrastim ( 100 mcg / kg ) on day 2 or daily subcutaneous filgrastim ( 5 mcg / kg / day ) beginning on day 2 of each chemotherapy cycle .
Both studies met the major efficacy outcome measure of demonstrating that the mean days of severe neutropenia of pegfilgrastim - treated patients did not exceed that of filgrastim - treated patients by more than 1 day in cycle 1 of chemotherapy .
The mean days of cycle 1 severe neutropenia in Study 1 were 1 . 8 days in the pegfilgrastim arm compared to 1 . 6 days in the filgrastim arm [ difference in means 0 . 2 ( 95 % CI - 0 . 2 , 0 . 6 ) ] and in Study 2 were 1 . 7 days in the pegfilgrastim arm compared to 1 . 6 days in the filgrastim arm [ difference in means 0 . 1 ( 95 % CI - 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 ) ] .
A secondary endpoint in both studies was days of severe neutropenia in cycles 2 through 4 with results similar to those for cycle 1 .
Study 3 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study that employed docetaxel 100 mg / m2 administered every 21 days for up to 4 cycles for the treatment of metastatic or non - metastatic breast cancer .
In this study , 928 patients were randomized to receive a single subcutaneous injection of pegfilgrastim ( 6 mg ) or placebo on day 2 of each chemotherapy cycle .
Study 3 met the major trial outcome measure of demonstrating that the incidence of febrile neutropenia ( defined as temperature ≥ 38 . 2 ° C and ANC ≤ 0 . 5 x 109 / L ) was lower for pegfilgrastim - treated patients as compared to placebo - treated patients ( 1 % versus 17 % , respectively , p < 0 . 001 ) .
The incidence of hospitalizations ( 1 % versus 14 % ) and IV anti - infective use ( 2 % versus 10 % ) for the treatment of febrile neutropenia was also lower in the pegfilgrastim - treated patients compared to the placebo - treated patients .
Study 4 was a multicenter , randomized , open - label study to evaluate the efficacy , safety , and pharmacokinetics [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] of pegfilgrastim in pediatric and young adult patients with sarcoma .
Patients with sarcoma receiving chemotherapy age 0 to 21 years were eligible .
Patients were randomized to receive subcutaneous pegfilgrastim as a single - dose of 100 mcg / kg ( n = 37 ) or subcutaneous filgrastim at a dose 5 mcg / kg / day ( n = 6 ) following myelosuppressive chemotherapy .
Recovery of neutrophil counts was similar in the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim groups .
The most common adverse reaction reported was bone pain .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Stimufend single - dose prefilled syringe for manual use Stimufend ( pegfilgrastim - fpgk ) injection is a clear , colorless , preservative - free solution supplied in a pre - filled single - dose syringe for manual use containing 6 mg pegfilgrastim - fpgk , supplied with a 27 - gauge , 1 / 2 - inch needle with a Safe ' n ' Sound ® passive Needle Guard .
The needle cap of the pre - filled syringe contains natural rubber ( a derivative of latex ) .
Stimufend is provided in a dispensing pack containing one sterile 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL pre - filled syringe ( NDC 65219 - 371 - 10 ) .
Stimufend pre - filled syringe does not bear graduation marks and is intended only to deliver the entire contents of the syringe ( 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL ) for direct administration .
Use of the pre - filled syringe is not recommended for direct administration for pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg who require doses that are less than the full contents of the syringe .
Store refrigerated between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the carton to protect from light .
Do not shake .
Discard syringes stored at room temperature for more than 72 hours .
Do not freeze .
Discard syringe if frozen .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Advise patients of the following risks and potential risks with Stimufend : • Splenic rupture and splenomegaly • Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome • Serious allergic reactions • Sickle cell crisis • Glomerulonephritis • Increased risk of Myelodysplastic Syndrome and / or Acute Myeloid Leukemia in patients with breast and lung cancer who receive Stimufend in conjunction with chemotherapy and / or radiation therapy • Capillary Leak Syndrome • Aortitis Instruct patients who self - administer Stimufend using the single - dose pre - filled syringe of the : • Importance of following the Instructions for Use ( see Instructions for Use ) .
• Dangers of reusing syringes .
• Importance of following local requirements for proper disposal of used syringes .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 U . S . License No . 2146 Product of Italy This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : September 2022 Patient Information Stimufend ® ( stim - yu - fend ) ( pegfilgrastim - fpgk ) injection Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe What is Stimufend ?
Stimufend is a man - made form of granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G - CSF ) .
G - CSF is a substance produced by the body .
It stimulates the growth of neutrophils , a type of white blood cell important in the body ' s fight against infection .
Do not take Stimufend if you have had a serious allergic reaction to pegfilgrastim products or filgrastim products .
Before you receive Stimufend , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a sickle cell disorder .
• have kidney problems .
• are allergic to latex .
The needle cap on the prefilled syringe contains dry natural rubber ( derived from latex ) .
You should not give Stimufend using the prefilled syringe if you have latex allergies .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Stimufend will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Stimufend passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive Stimufend ?
• Stimufend is given as an injection under your skin ( subcutaneous injection ) by a healthcare provider .
If your healthcare provider decides that the subcutaneous injections can be given at home by you or your caregiver , follow the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” that comes with your Stimufend for information on how to prepare and inject a dose of Stimufend .
• You and your caregiver will be shown how to prepare and inject Stimufend before you use it .
• You should not inject a dose of Stimufend to children weighing less than 45 kg from a Stimufend prefilled syringe .
A dose less than 0 . 6 mL ( 6 mg ) cannot be accurately measured using the Stimufend prefilled syringe .
• If you are receiving Stimufend because you are also receiving chemotherapy , the last dose of Stimufend should be injected at least 14 days before and 24 hours after your dose of chemotherapy .
• If you miss a dose of Stimufend , talk to your healthcare provider about when you should give your next dose .
What are possible side effects of Stimufend ?
Stimufend may cause serious side effects , including : • Spleen rupture .
Your spleen may become enlarged and can rupture .
A ruptured spleen can cause death .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have pain in the left upper stomach area or your left shoulder .
• A serious lung problem called Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you have shortness of breath with or without a fever , trouble breathing , or a fast rate of breathing .
• Serious allergic reactions .
Stimufend can cause serious allergic reactions .
These reactions can cause a rash over your whole body , shortness of breath , wheezing , dizziness , swelling around your mouth or eyes , fast heart rate , and sweating .
If you have any of these symptoms , stop using Stimufend and call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away .
• Sickle cell crises .
You may have a serious sickle cell crisis , which could lead to death , if you have a sickle cell disorder and receive Stimufend .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have symptoms of sickle cell crisis such as pain or difficulty breathing .
• Kidney injury ( glomerulonephritis ) .
Stimufend can cause kidney injury .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of the following symptoms : • swelling of your face or ankles • blood in your urine or dark colored urine • you urinate less than usual • Increased white blood cell count ( leukocytosis ) .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood during treatment with Stimufend .
• Decreased platelet count ( thrombocytopenia ) .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood during treatment with Stimufend .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have unusual bleeding or bruising during treatment with Stimufend .
This could be a sign of decreased platelet counts , which may reduce the ability of your blood to clot .
• Capillary Leak Syndrome .
Stimufend can cause fluid to leak from blood vessels into your body ' s tissues .
This condition is called “ Capillary Leak Syndrome ” ( CLS ) .
CLS can quickly cause you to have symptoms that may become life - threatening .
Get emergency medical help right away if you develop any of the following symptoms : • swelling or puffiness and are urinating less than usual • trouble breathing • swelling of your stomach area ( abdomen ) and feeling of fullness • dizziness or feeling faint • a general feeling of tiredness • Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia .
If you have breast cancer or lung cancer , when Stimufend is used with chemotherapy and radiation therapy , or with radiation therapy alone , you may have an increased risk of developing a precancerous blood condition called myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) or a blood cancer called acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) .
Symptoms of MDS and AML may include tiredness , fever , and easy bruising or bleeding .
Call your healthcare provider if you develop these symptoms during treatment with Stimufend .
• Inflammation of the aorta ( aortitis ) .
Inflammation of the aorta ( the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the body ) has been reported in patients who received pegfilgrastim products .
Symptoms may include fever , abdominal pain , feeling tired , and back pain .
Call your healthcare provider if you experience these symptoms .
The most common side effects of Stimufend are pain in the bones , arms , and legs .
These are not all the possible side effects of Stimufend .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Stimufend ?
• Store Stimufend in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Throw away ( dispose of ) Stimufend that has been frozen .
• Keep the prefilled syringe in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage .
• Do not shake the prefilled syringe .
• Take Stimufend out of the refrigerator 30 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature before preparing an injection .
• Throw away ( dispose of ) any Stimufend that has been left at room temperature , 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) , for more than 72 hours .
Keep the Stimufend prefilled syringe out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Stimufend .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Stimufend for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Stimufend to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Stimufend that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Stimufend ?
Active ingredient : pegfilgrastim - fpgk Inactive ingredients : acetate , polysorbate 20 , sodium and sorbitol in Water for Injection , USP .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 U . S . License No . 2146 Product of Italy For more information go to www . fresenius - kabi . com / us , or call 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use STIMUFEND ® ( STIM - yu - fend ) ( pegfilgrastim - fpgk ) Injection , for subcutaneous use Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe Guide to parts [ MULTIMEDIA ] After Use ( Clear needle guard locked in place ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : The needle is covered by a gray needle cap before use .
Important : Read the Patient Information for important information you need to know about STIMUFEND before using these Instructions for Use .
Before you use a STIMUFEND prefilled syringe , read this important information .
Storing the prefilled syringe • Store STIMUFEND in the refrigerator between 36 ° F and 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Throw away ( dispose of ) STIMUFEND that has been frozen .
• Keep the prefilled syringe in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage .
• Take the prefilled syringe out of the refrigerator 30 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature before preparing an injection .
• Throw away ( dispose of ) any STIMUFEND that has been left at room temperature , 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) , for more than 72 hours .
• Keep the STIMUFEND prefilled syringe out of the reach of children .
Using the prefilled syringe • It is important that you do not try to give the injection unless you or your caregiver has received training from your healthcare provider .
• Make sure the name STIMUFEND appears on the carton and prefilled syringe label .
• Check the carton and prefilled syringe label to make sure the dose strength is 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL .
• You should not inject a dose of STIMUFEND to children weighing less than 45 kg from a STIMUFEND prefilled syringe .
A dose less than 0 . 6 mL ( 6 mg ) cannot be accurately measured using the STIMUFEND prefilled syringe .
• Do not use a prefilled syringe after the expiration date on the label .
• Do not shake the prefilled syringe .
• Do not remove the gray needle cap from the prefilled syringe until you are ready to inject .
• Do not use the prefilled syringe if the carton is open or damaged .
• Do not use a prefilled syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface .
The prefilled syringe may be broken even if you cannot see the break .
Use a new prefilled syringe .
• The gray needle cap on the prefilled syringe contains dry natural rubber ( made from latex ) .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are allergic to latex .
You should not give STIMUFEND using the prefilled syringe if you have latex allergies .
The prefilled syringe has a clear needle guard that automatically activates to cover the needle after the injection is given .
Do not use a prefilled syringe if the clear needle guard has been activated .
Use another prefilled syringe that has not been activated and is ready to use .
Call your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Step 1 : Prepare 1 . 1 Remove the prefilled syringe carton from the refrigerator .
Remove the syringe tray from the carton .
On a clean , well - lit surface , place the syringe tray at room temperature for 30 minutes before you give an injection .
• Do not use the prefilled syringe if the carton is damaged .
• Do not try to warm the prefilled syringe by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave .
• Do not leave the prefilled syringe in direct sunlight .
• Do not shake the prefilled syringe .
Open the tray by peeling away the cover .
Grab the clear needle guard to remove the prefilled syringe from the tray ( see Figure C ) .
For safety reasons : • Do not grab the plunger rod .
• Do not grab the gray needle cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 2 Inspect the medicine and prefilled syringe .
Make sure the medicine in the prefilled syringe is clear and colorless .
• Do not use the prefilled syringe if : • The needle safety guard is activated ( see Figure D ) .
• The medicine is cloudy or discolored , or contains flakes or particles ( see Figure E ) .
• Any part appears cracked or broken .
• The prefilled syringe has been dropped .
• The gray needle cap is missing or not securely attached ( see Figure E ) .
• The expiration date printed on the label has passed ( see Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] In all cases use a new syringe and call your healthcare provider .
1 . 3 Gather all materials needed for the injection ( see Figure F ) .
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
On a clean , well - lit work surface , place the : • Prefilled syringe • Alcohol wipe • Cotton ball or gauze pad • Adhesive bandage • Sharps disposal container [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Get ready 2 . 1 Prepare and clean the injection site ( s ) .
You can use : • Stomach area ( abdomen ) except for a 2 - inch area away from the navel ( belly button ) ( see Figure G ) • Thigh ( see Figure G ) • Back area of the upper arm ( only if someone else is giving you the injection ) ( See Figure H ) • Upper outer area of the buttocks ( only if someone else is giving you the injection ) ( see Figure H ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe ( see Figure I ) .
Let the skin dry .
• Do not touch this area again before injecting .
• If you want to use the same injection site , make sure it is not the same spot on the injection site you used for a previous injection .
• Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , or hard .
Avoid injecting into areas with scars or stretch marks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Hold the prefilled syringe by the clear needle guard .
Carefully pull the gray needle cap straight off and away from the body ( see Figure J ) .
• Do not remove the gray needle cap from the prefilled syringe until you are ready to inject .
• Do not twist or bend the gray needle cap .
• Do not hold the prefilled syringe by the plunger rod .
• Do not put the gray needle cap back onto the prefilled syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Throw the gray needle cap into the sharps disposal container ( see Figure K ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Subcutaneous ( under the skin ) injection 3 . 1 Pinch the injection site to create a firm surface ( see Figure L ) .
Important : Keep skin pinched while injecting .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 . 2 Hold the pinch .
Insert the needle into the skin at 45 to 90 degrees ( see Figure M ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 . 3 Using slow and constant pressure , push the plunger rod until it reaches the bottom ( see Figure N ) .
• The plunger rod must be pushed down fully to ensure the full dose has been injected ( see Figure O ) .
• Do not remove the needle from the skin when the plunger reaches the end and proceed with next step .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Finish 4 . 1 Slowly release your thumb upward .
This will allow the needle to move up into the clear needle guard and cover the entire needle ( see Figure P ) .
• Do not try to recap the needle as it could lead to needle stick injury .
Important : When you remove the syringe , if it looks like the medicine is still in the syringe barrel , this means you have not received a full dose .
Call your healthcare provider right away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 . 2 Discard ( throw away ) your prefilled syringe .
• Put the used prefilled syringe in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use ( see Figure Q ) .
• Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the prefilled syringe in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not reuse the prefilled syringe .
• Do not recycle the prefilled syringe or sharps disposal container or throw them in the household trash .
Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
4 . 3 Examine the injection site .
• If there is blood , press a cotton ball or gauze pad on the injection site .
Do not rub the injection site .
Apply an adhesive bandage if needed ( see Figure R ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 U . S . License No . 2146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Issued : 09 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – STIMUFEND – One 0 . 6 mL Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe CARTON PANEL Stimufend pegfilgrastim - fpgk Injection 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL NDC 65219 - 371 - 10 Rx Only Pegylated Recombinant Methionyl Human Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( PEG - r - methHuG - CSF ) derived from E Coli For Subcutaneous Use Only 1 single - dose pre - filled syringe This product contains Dry Natural Rubber Sterile Solution - No Preservative [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – STIMUFEND – 0 . 6 mL Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe BLISTER PACK LABEL Stimufend ( pegfilgrastim - fpgk ) Injection 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL Pegylated Recombinant Methionyl Human Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( PEG - r - methHuG - CSF ) derived from E Coli For Subcutaneous Use Only Store refrigerated between 36 oF to 46 oF ( 2 oC to 8 oC ) .
Do not freeze or shake .
Protect from light .
This product contains dry natural rubber .
Sterile Solution - No Preservative [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – STIMUFEND – 0 . 6 mL Single - Dose Prefilled SYRINGE LABEL Stimufend ( pegfilgrastim - fpgk ) Injection 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL U . S . License No . 2146 Fresenius Kabi USA LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
