DESCRIPTION Chemically , meclizine hydrochloride , USP is 1 - ( p - chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methylbenzyl ) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive ingredients for the tablets are : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and talc .
The 12 . 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake .
The 25 mg tablets also contain D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meclizine hydrochloride is an antihistamine that shows marked protective activity against nebulized histamine and lethal doses of intravenously injected histamine in guinea pigs .
It has a marked effect in blocking the vasodepressor response to histamine , but only a slight blocking action against acetylcholine .
Its activity is relatively weak in inhibiting the spasmogenic action of histamine on isolated guinea pig ileum .
Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for meclizine following oral administration has been summarized from published literature .
Absorption Meclizine is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median T max value of 3 hours post - dose ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 hours ) for the tablet dosage form .
Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for meclizine in humans are unknown .
Metabolism The metabolic fate of meclizine in humans is unknown .
In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme , CYP2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of meclizine .
The genetic polymorphism of CYP2D6 that results in extensive - , poor - , intermediate - and ultrarapid metabolizer phenotypes could contribute to large inter - individual variability in meclizine exposure .
Elimination Meclizine has a plasma elimination half - life of about 5 to 6 hours in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride is contraindicated in individuals who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Since drowsiness may , on occasion , occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this drug .
Due to its potential anticholinergic action , this drug should be used with caution in patients with asthma , glaucoma , or enlargement of the prostate gland .
PRECAUTIONS Pediatric Use Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25 to 50 times the human dose .
Epidemiological studies in pregnant women , however , do not indicate that meclizine increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy .
Despite the animal findings , it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote .
Nevertheless , meclizine , or any other medication , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when meclizine is administered to a nursing woman .
Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
As meclizine undergoes metabolism , hepatic impairment may result in increased systemic exposure of the drug .
Treatment with meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
Due to a potential for drug / metabolite accumulation , meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with renal impairment and in the elderly as renal function generally declines with age .
Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , tranquilizers and sedatives ( see WARNINGS ) .
Based on in vitro evaluation , meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , vomiting and , on rare occasions , blurred vision have been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system , the recommended dose is 25 mg to 100 mg daily , in divided dosage , depending upon clinical response .
HOW SUPPLIED Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 12 . 5 mg , are supplied as light blue colored , oval shaped tablets with “ AN 441 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 25 mg , are supplied as light yellow colored , oval shaped tablets with “ AN 442 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 90 : NDC 42291 - 609 - 90 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 42291 - 609 - 10 Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 50 mg , are supplied as white , oval shaped , partially bisected tablets with “ AN 444 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 04 - 2018 - 01 AV Rev . 06 / 18 ( P ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL AvKARE ® NDC 42291 - 609 - 90 Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 25 mg 90 Tablets Rx Only Each tablet contains : Meclizine HCl , USP ............................. 25 mg Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in the USP .
DOSAGE AND USE : See accompanying prescribing information .
MOTION SICKNESS : 25 mg to 50 mg daily .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 01 - 2013 AV Rev . 10 / 15 ( P ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
