DESCRIPTION : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other Ingredients : Aspartame , Croscarmellose Sodium , Grape Flavor , Magnesium Stearate ( vegetable source ) , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Stearic Acid ( vegetable source ) , Sucrose , CI 45410 ( Red 27 Lake ) , CI 42090 ( FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY It is well established that fluoridation of the water supply ( 1 ppm fluoride ) during the period of tooth development leads to a significant decrease in the incidence of dental caries .
Multivitamin with 0 . 5 mg Fluoride Chewable Tablets provide sodium fluoride and ten essential vitamins in a chewable tablet .
Because the tablets are chewable , they provide a topical as well as systemic source of fluoride .
Hydroxyapatite is the principal crystal for all calcified tissue in the human body .
The fluoride ion reacts with the hydroxyapatite in the tooth as it is formed to produce the more caries - resistant crystal , fluorapatite .
The reaction may be expressed by the equation : Ca 10 ( PO 4 ) 6 ( OH ) 2 + 2 F - ------- Ca 10 ( PO 4 ) 6 F 2 + 2 OH - ( Hydroxyapatite ) ( Fluorapatite ) Three stages of fluoride deposition in tooth enamel can be distinguished : 1 .
Small amounts ( reflecting the low levels of fluoride in tissue fluids ) are incorporated into the enamel crystals while they are being formed .
2 .
After enamel has been laid down , fluoride deposition continues in the surface enamel .
Diffusion of fluoride from the surface inward is apparently restricted .
3 .
After eruption , the surface enamel acquires fluoride from the water , food , supplementary fluoride and smaller amounts from saliva .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins .
Supplementation of the diet with fluoride for caries prophylaxis .
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to the age 16 , in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride , receive daily fluoride supplementation .
Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets provide 0 . 5 mg fluoride in tablet form for children 4 - 6 years of age in areas where the drinking water fluoride level is less than 0 . 3 ppm , and for children 6 years of age and above where the drinking water contains 0 . 3 through 0 . 6 ppm of fluoride .
Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets supply significant amounts of Vitamins A , C , D , E , thiamine , riboflavin , niacin , vitamin B6 , vitamin B12 , and folate to supplement the diet , and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop .
Thus , in a single easy - to - use preparation , children obtain ten essential vitamins and the important mineral , fluoride .
Children using Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets regularly should receive semiannual dental examinations .
The regular brushing of teeth and attention to good oral hygiene practices are also essential .
WARNING Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Caution : Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration .
Should be chewed .
This product , as all chewable tablets , is not recommended for children under age 4 due to risk of choking .
PRECAUTION The suggested dose of Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets should not be exceeded , since dental fluorosis may result from continued ingestion of large amounts of fluoride .
Before prescribing Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets : 1 .
Determine the fluoride content of the drinking water from all major sources .
2 .
Make sure the child is not receiving significant amounts of fluoride from other sources such as medications and swallowed toothpaste .
3 .
Periodically check to make sure that the child does not develop significant dental fluorosis .
Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 3 . 0 mg Per Tablet .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily , to be dissolved in the mouth or chewed before swallowing .
Do not give a chewable tablet to a child younger than 4 years old .
HOW SUPPLIED Multivitamin chewable tablets containing 0 . 5 mg fluoride are purple - colored , grape flavor , un - scored , square debossed “ 108 ” tablets are available on prescription only in bottles of 100 tablets .
NDC : 59088 - 108 - 59 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container with a child – resistant closure as defined in the USP / NF .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container with a child - resistant closure as defined in the USP / NF .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
Multivitamin with Fluoride Chewable Tablets 0 . 5 mg Manufactured By : PureTek Corporation Panorama City , CA 91402 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
