CAUTION : USE PYRIDOSTIGMINE BROMIDE AS PRETREATMENT ONLY .
AFTER EXPOSURE TO SOMAN , USE ATROPINE AND 2 - PAM .
ALWAYS USE PROTECTIVE GARMENT ( S ) .
• Pyridostigmine bromide is for use as a pretreatment for exposure to soman nerve agent .
Pyridostigmine bromide alone will not protect against exposure to soman .
The efficacy of pyridostigmine bromide is dependent upon the rapid use of atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 PAM ) after soman exposure .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) . ]
• Primary protection against exposure to chemical nerve agents is the wearing of protective garments including masks , hoods , and overgarments designed specifically for this use .
Individuals must not rely solely upon pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide and on the antidotes atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 - PAM ) to provide complete protection from poisoning by soman nerve agent .
• Pyridostigmine bromide must not be taken after exposure to soman .
If pyridostigmine bromide is taken immediately before exposure ( e . g . , when the gas attack alarm is given ) or at the same time as poisoning by soman , it is not expected to be effective and may exacerbate the effects of a sub - lethal exposure to soman .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) . ]
FOR MILITARY MEDICAL USE ONLY CAUTION : USE PYRIDOSTIGMINE BROMIDE AS PRETREATMENT ONLY .
AFTER EXPOSURE TO SOMAN , USE ATROPINE AND 2 - PAM .
ALWAYS USE PROTECTIVE GARMENT ( S ) See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Pyridostigmine bromide is for use as a pretreatment for exposure to soman nerve agent .
Pyridostigmine bromide alone will not protect against exposure to soman .
The efficacy of pyridostigmine bromide is dependent upon the rapid use of atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 - PAM ) after soman exposure .
• Primary protection against exposure to chemical nerve agents is the wearing of protective garments .
• Pyridostigmine bromide must not be taken after exposure to soman .
If taken immediately before soman exposure ( e . g . , when the gas attack alarm is given ) or at the same time as poisoning by soman , it is not expected to be effective and may exacerbate the effects of a sub - lethal exposure to soman .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pyridostigmine bromide is indicated for pretreatment against the lethal effects of soman nerve agent poisoning .
Pyridostigmine bromide is intended for use in conjunction with protective garments , including a mask .
At the first sign of nerve agent poisoning , pyridostigmine bromide should be stopped , and atropine and pralidoxime therapy started immediately .
The evidence for the effectiveness of pyridostigmine bromide as pretreatment against soman - induced toxicity was derived from animal studies alone .
[ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) . ]
FOR MILITARY MEDICAL USE ONLY Pyridostigmine bromide is a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for pretreatment against the lethal effects of soman nerve agent poisoning .
( 1 ) Pyridostigmine bromide is for use in conjunction with • Protective garments , including a gas mask , and • Immediate atropine and pralidoxime therapy at the first sign of nerve agent poisoning .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pyridostigmine bromide is for use as a pretreatment for exposure to soman nerve agent .
Pyridostigmine bromide alone will not protect against exposure to soman .
The efficacy of pyridostigmine bromide is dependent upon the rapid use of atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 - PAM ) after soman exposure .
The primary protection against exposure to chemical nerve agents consists of wearing protective garments including masks , hoods , and overgarments designed specifically for this use .
Individuals must not rely solely upon pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide and the antidotes atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 - PAM ) to provide complete protection from poisoning by soman nerve agent .
Pyridostigmine bromide must not be taken after exposure to soman .
If pyridostigmine bromide is taken immediately before exposure ( eg , when the gas attack alarm is given ) or at the same time as poisoning by soman , it is not expected to be effective and may exacerbate the effects of a sublethal exposure to soman .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) . ]
The dose of pyridostigmine bromide is one 30 - mg tablet every 8 hours , started at least several hours prior to exposure to soman .
At the first sign of nerve agent poisoning ( runny nose ; watery eyes ; small , pinpoint pupils ; eye pain ; blurred vision ; drooling and excessive sweating ; cough ; chest tightness ; rapid breathing ; diarrhea ; increased urination ; confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; headache ; nausea , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain ; slow or fast heart rate ; and / or abnormally low or high blood pressure ) , pyridostigmine bromide should be discontinued and treatment with atropine and pralidoxime should be instituted immediately .
There is no known advantage to taking pyridostigmine bromide just prior to or concurrent with soman exposure .
According to the mechanism of action of pyridostigmine bromide [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , pyridostigmine bromide is effective when it is given sufficiently in advance of soman poisoning to provide a pool of protected enzyme .
Therefore , it is expected that pyridostigmine bromide will not be effective if administered just prior to or during exposure to soman .
The benefits and risks of use beyond 14 consecutive days have not been definitively established ; therefore , continued use beyond 14 consecutive days should be evaluated in the context of the likelihood of exposure to soman nerve agent .
• One 30 mg tablet every 8 hours .
( 2 ) • Start at least one ( 1 ) hour prior to exposure to Soman .
( 2 ) • At the first sign of Soman poisoning pyridostigmine must be stopped , and atropine and 2 - PAM be administered .
( 2 ) • Use beyond 14 consecutive days should be evaluated in the context of the likelihood of Soman exposure .
( 2 ) • Store refrigerated between 2 and 8 ° C ( 36 to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Do not dispense after removal from refrigeration for more than a total of 3 months .
( 16 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets , USP , 30 mg , are round , white and imprinted with the letters " PBT . "
• 30 mg tablets ( round , white imprinted with letters " PBT " ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction • Known hypersensitivity to anticholinesterase agents • Mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction .
( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to anticholinesterase agents .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • At the first sign of Soman poisoning pyridostigmine must be stopped , atropine and 2 - PAM must be administered immediately .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use with caution in persons with increased risk of anticholinergic reactions , such as persons with bronchial asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , bradycardia , cardiac arrhythmias , beta blocker treatment ( increased risk of anticholinergic reactions ) .
( 5 . 2 ) • Use with caution in persons with bromide sensitivity .
( 5 . 3 ) • In case of serious adverse reactions , advise personnel to temporarily discontinue pyridostigmine and seek immediate medical attention .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Stopping Pyridostigmine Bromide and Using Atropine and 2 - PAM in the Event of Soman Exposure See Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Boxed Caution statement ( at beginning of Full Prescribing Information ) .
• - Pyridostigmine bromide pretreatment offers no benefit against the nerve agent soman unless the nerve agent antidotes atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 - PAM ) are administered once symptoms of poisoning appear .
Pyridostigmine should be discontinued at the first sign of nerve agent poisoning ( runny nose ; watery eyes ; small , pinpoint pupils ; eye pain ; blurred vision ; drooling and excessive sweating ; cough ; chest tightness ; rapid breathing ; diarrhea ; increased urination ; confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; headache ; nausea , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain ; slow or fast heart rate ; and / or abnormally low or high blood pressure ) because it may exacerbate the effects of a sub - lethal exposure to soman .
5 . 2 Individuals at Increased Risk of Anticholinergic Adverse Reactions Pyridostigmine bromide should be used with caution in persons with bronchial asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , bradycardia , or cardiac arrhythmias and , for example , in people being treated for hypertension or glaucoma with beta adrenergic receptor blockers .
5 . 3 Use in Bromide - Sensitive Individuals Caution should be taken when administering pyridostigmine bromide to individuals with known bromide sensitivity .
The risks and benefits of administration must be weighed against the potential for rash or other adverse reactions in these individuals .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) . ]
5 . 4 Action in Case of Serious Adverse Reactions If personnel experience serious adverse reactions such as difficult breathing , severe dizziness , or loss of consciousness as a result of ingestion of pyridostigmine bromide , they should temporarily discontinue use of product and seek immediate medical attention .
Personnel should report serious adverse events to their commander and responsible medical officer .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) are diarrhea , abdominal pain , dysmenorrhea , and twitch .
The adverse reactions to pyridostigmine bromide are typically of two varieties : muscarinic and nicotinic .
Muscarinic adverse reactions include abdominal cramps , bloating , flatulence , diarrhea , emesis , increased peristalsis , nausea , hypersalivation , urinary incontinence , increased bronchial secretion , diaphoresis , miosis , and lacrimation .
Nicotinic adverse reactions are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculations , and weakness .
Pyridostigmine bromide is a quaternary ammonium compound and does not readily cross the blood - brain barrier .
Compared to the peripheral effects of pyridostigmine bromide , central nervous system manifestations are less frequent and less serious , primarily consisting of headache and vertigo , with minor and clinically insignificant changes in heart rate , blood pressure , and respiratory function .
Extremely high doses may produce central nervous system ( CNS ) symptoms of agitation , restlessness , confusion , visual hallucinations , and paranoid delusions .
Electrolyte abnormalities , possibly resulting from high serum bromide concentrations , also have been reported .
Death may result from cardiac arrest or respiratory paralysis and pulmonary edema .
As with any compound containing bromide , a skin rash may be observed in an occasional patient , which usually subsides promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) are diarrhea , abdominal pain , dysmenorrhea , and twitch .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact U . S . Army Medical Materiel Development Activity at 301 - 619 - 0317 ( fax 301 - 619 - 0197 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience In a controlled study of 90 healthy volunteers comparing pyridostigmine bromide 30 mg every 8 hours to placebo for 21 days , the following incidences of adverse reactions was reported .
Table 1 Incidence of Adverse Reactions ≥ 2 % Reaction : % Pyridostigmine N = 60 % Placebo N = 30 Diarrhea 7 0 Abdominal Pain 7 0 Dysmenorrhea 5 0 Twitch 3 0 Myalgia 2 0 Dry Skin 2 0 Urinary Frequency 2 0 Epistaxis 2 0 Amblyopia 2 0 Hypesthesia 2 0 Neck pain 2 0 Other less common adverse reactions seen during controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials for pyridostigmine include the following : • Pulmonary : Exacerbation of acute bronchitis and asthma • Cardiovascular : Elevated blood pressure , decreased heart rate ( 4 - 6 beats per minute ) , chest tightness • Eyes : Change in vision , eye pain • Neurologic : Headache , hypertonia , difficulty in concentrating , confusion , disturbed sleep , tingling of extremities , numbness of the tongue • Skin : Increased sweating , rash , alopecia • Digestive : Vomiting , borborygmi , nausea , bloating , flatulence • General : Warm sensation , lethargy / drowsiness , depressed mood During safety studies at the recommended dosage , there were two reports of loss of consciousness , one of which also included urinary and fecal incontinence , stiffness of the upper torso and arms , post - syncopal skin pallor , post - syncopal confusion , and post - syncopal weakness ( suggesting a seizure event ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Mefloquine : Additive effect on gastrointestinal tract and atrial rate .
( 7 . 1 ) • Anticholinesterase drugs for glaucoma treatment : Additive effects .
( 7 . 2 ) • Narcotics : Exacerbation of bradycardia possible .
( 7 . 3 ) • Depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents : Increased effect .
( 7 . 4 ) • Non - depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents : Dose may need to be increased .
( 7 . 4 ) • Aminoglycoside antibiotics , local and some general anesthetics , antiarrhythmic agents , and other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission should be used cautiously , if at all .
( 7 . 4 ) • Drugs converted to pantothenic acid ( e . g . , dexpanthenol ) : Additive effect .
( 7 . 5 ) 7 . 1 Mefloquine A potential interaction between the antimalarial drug mefloquine and pyridostigmine bromide exists through a possible additive effect on the gastrointestinal tract .
The most common complaint about both drugs is loose bowels .
It has been reported that simple additive effects on the atrial rate occur when mefloquine and pyridostigmine bromide are combined .
7 . 2 Other Anticholinesterase Drugs Because anticholinesterase drugs are often used in the treatment of glaucoma , the use of pyridostigmine bromide in such situations may have an additive effect that may cause or exacerbate problems with night vision .
7 . 3 Narcotics The bradycardia associated with the use of narcotics may exacerbate pyridostigmine - induced bradycardia .
7 . 4 Drugs that Interfere with Neuromuscular Transmission Particular caution should be observed in the administration of depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents ( eg , succinylcholine ) during surgery since the degree of neuromuscular blockade that ensues may be enhanced by previously administered pyridostigmine bromide .
Doses of non - depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents ( eg , pancuronium bromide ) may need to be increased in patients previously administered pyridostigmine bromide .
Atropine antagonizes the muscarinic effects of pyridostigmine bromide , and this interaction is utilized to counteract the muscarinic symptoms of pyridostigmine bromide toxicity .
Anticholinesterase agents are sometimes effective in reversing neuromuscular block induced by aminoglycoside antibiotics .
However , aminoglycoside antibiotics , local and some general anesthetics , antiarrhythmic agents , and other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission should be used cautiously , if at all , during treatment with pyridostigmine bromide .
7 . 5 Drugs Converted to Pantothenic Acid ( e . g . , Dexpanthenol ) Theoretically , drugs such as dexpanthenol , which are converted to pantothenic acid in vivo , may have additive effects with pyridostigmine bromide by increasing production of acetylcholine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal impairment : Increased risk of side effects ; careful dose selection .
In persons with renal impairment , renal function monitoring may be useful .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Pyridostigmine bromide produced no teratogenic effects in rats given up to 30 mg / kg / day and in rabbits given up to 45 mg / kg / day orally during the period of organogenesis .
These doses are 3 and 10 times , respectively , the recommended human dose of 90 mg on an mg / m2 basis .
In rats , a slight degree of delayed skeletal ossification was seen at 30 mg / kg , a dose which caused maternal toxicity , and a slight increase in the incidence of hydronephrosis was seen at all dose levels ( lowest dose tested was 3 mg / kg ) .
In rabbits , a slight increase in the incidence of hydronephrosis was seen at 45 mg / kg , a dose that caused maternal toxicity and increased incidences of blood vessel variations were seen at all doses ( lowest dose tested was 5 mg / kg ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when pyridostigmine bromide is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of pyridostigmine bromide did not contain sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
In the elderly ( 71 to 85 years of age ) the elimination half - life , volume of distribution ( central and steady state ) were comparable with the young ( 21 to 51 years of age ) .
However , the systemic plasma clearance was significantly lower in the elderly compared to the young ( 6 . 7 ± 2 . 2 vs . 9 . 5 ± 2 . 7 mL / min / kg ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Persons with Renal Impairment This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Caution should be observed , and dosage be selected carefully , when administering pyridostigmine bromide to patients with impaired renal function .
In anephric patients , a 3 - fold increase in the elimination half - life and a 75 % decrease in systemic clearance were observed .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
It may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 7 Persons with Hepatic Impairment No information is available on the pharmacokinetics of pyridostigmine bromide in hepatic impaired patients .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 2 Abuse Although the abuse potential of pyridostigmine bromide has not been specifically assessed , no abuse of , tolerance to , withdrawal from , or drug - seeking behavior was observed in patients who received pyridostigmine bromide in clinical trials .
Cholinesterase inhibitors are not believed to be associated with drug abuse .
10 OVERDOSAGE As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of pyridostigmine bromide may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness that , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Overdosage with pyridostigmine bromide must be differentiated from the acute manifestations of nerve agent poisoning , which may also be characterized by a cholinergic crisis .
Atropine should be used to treat pyridostigmine bromide overdosage .
In the treatment of pyridostigmine bromide overdosage , maintaining adequate respiration is of primary importance .
Tracheostomy , bronchial aspiration , and postural drainage may be required to maintain an adequate airway ; respiration can be assisted mechanically if required .
Supplemental oxygen may be necessary .
Pyridostigmine bromide should be discontinued immediately and 1 mg to 4 mg of atropine sulfate administered intravenously .
Additional doses of atropine may be given every 5 to30 minutes as needed to control muscarinic symptoms .
Atropine overdosage should be avoided , as tenacious secretions and bronchial plugs may result .
It should be kept in mind that unlike muscarinic effects , the skeletal muscle effects and consequent respiratory paralysis ( nicotinic effects ) , which can occur following pyridostigmine overdosage , are not alleviated by atropine .
11 DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine bromide is an orally active , reversible cholinesterase inhibitor .
Its chemical name is : 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
CAS registration number is 101 - 26 - 8 .
Pyridostigmine bromide has a molecular formula of C9H13BrN2O2 , a molecular weight of 261 . 12 , and the following molecular structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP contain 30 mg of pyridostigmine bromide for oral administration .
The inactive ingredients included in the tablet formula are colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose anhydrous , and stearic acid or , alternatively ; lactose , starch , silica precipitated , talc , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pyridostigmine is a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The mechanism of soman - induced death is reasonably well understood .
Death is believed to result primarily from respiratory failure due to irreversible inhibition of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase and the consequent increase in the level of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine 1 ) at nicotinic receptors at the neuromuscular junction , resulting in pathological stimulation and ultimate failure of the muscles of respiration , 2 ) at muscarinic receptors in secretory glands and smooth muscle , resulting in excessive respiratory secretions and bronchoconstriction , and 3 ) at cholinergic receptors in the brain , resulting in central respiratory depression .
The effect of pyridostigmine is presumed to result from its reversible inhibition of a critical number of acetylcholinesterase active sites in the peripheral nervous system , protecting them from irreversible inhibition by soman .
( Pyridostigmine bromide is not thought to enter the brain in significant amounts . )
When the pyridostigmine bromide - induced inhibition of the enzyme is subsequently reversed , there is a small residual amount of enzyme activity that is adequate to sustain life ( provided atropine and 2 - PAM are subsequently administered ) .
An implication of this presumed mechanism is that it is not helpful to give pyridostigmine bromide either just before or during exposure to soman .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pyridostigmine bromide is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with an absolute bioavailability of 10 % to 20 % .
Following a single oral dose of 30 mg pyridostigmine bromide in the fasting state , the TMAX was 2 . 2 ± 1 . 0 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of pyridostigmine bromide is linear over the dose range of 30 mg to 60 mg .
Following multiple doses of pyridostigmine bromide ( 30 mg every 8 hours for 21 days ) , the average steady - state trough concentration of pyridostigmine bromide was about ¼ of the peak concentration after a single dose .
The volume of distribution was about 19 ± 12 liters , indicating that pyridostigmine bromide distributes into tissues .
No information on protein binding of pyridostigmine bromide is available .
Pyridostigmine bromide undergoes hydrolysis by cholinesterases and is metabolized in the liver .
It is excreted in the urine as both unchanged drug and its metabolites .
The systemic clearance of pyridostigmine bromide is 830 mL / min and the elimination half - life of pyridostigmine bromide is approximately 3 hours .
Renal Impairment In anephric patients ( n = 4 ) , the elimination half - life increased 3 fold and the systemic clearance decreased by 75 % .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) . ]
Hepatic Impairment No information is available on the pharmacokinetics of pyridostigmine bromide in hepatic impaired patients .
Gender The clearance of pyridostigmine bromide is not influenced by gender .
Elderly In a pyridostigmine bromide study in the elderly ( 71 to 85 years ) , the elimination half - life of pyridostigmine was similar to the half - life in the young ( 21 to 51 years ) .
However , the systemic plasma clearance was 30 % lower in the elderly .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity No long - term studies to evaluate carcinogenicity have been performed in animals .
Mutagenicity Pyridostigmine bromide was mutagenic and clastogenic in an in vitro mammalian gene mutation assay in mouse lymphoma cells , in the presence of metabolic activation only .
Pyridostigmine bromide was not mutagenic in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames Test ) or in an in vitro mammalian gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells , and was not clastogenic in an in vitro assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Pyridostigmine bromide did not impair fertility in male and female rats given oral doses of up to 45 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the recommended human daily dose of 90 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) beginning at 10 ( males ) or 2 ( females ) weeks prior to mating .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Evidence of the effectiveness of pyridostigmine bromide as a pretreatment for soman poisoning was obtained from studies in animals alone , because it is unethical to perform such studies in humans .
While the results of these animal studies cannot be extrapolated to humans with certainty , the extrapolation is supported by the reasonably well understood pathophysiologic mechanisms of the toxicity of soman and the mechanism of the protective effect of pyridostigmine bromide pretreatment , as examined in various animal species .
In addition , the results of these animal studies establish that pyridostigmine bromide is reasonably likely to produce clinical benefit in humans .
The section below explains the current understanding of the mechanism of soman toxicity and the beneficial effect of pyridostigmine bromide pretreatment , as well as the basis for extrapolating the animal findings to humans .
Pyridostigmine bromide pretreatment has been shown in animals to decrease the lethality of the soman nerve agent , provided atropine and pralidoxime ( 2 - PAM ) are administered immediately after exposure to soman .
Rhesus monkeys were given oral doses of pyridostigmine bromide every 8 hours for a total of 6 doses and were challenged with soman given intramuscularly 5 hours after the last pyridostigmine bromide dose .
Two dosage groups of pyridostigmine bromide were used : a low - dose group given 1 . 2 mg / kg for all 6 doses and a high - dose group given 1 . 2 and 1 . 8 mg / kg for the first and second doses , respectively , and 2 . 4 mg / kg for the final 4 doses .
These animals were also given atropine and 2 - PAM after exposure to soman .
An untreated control group and a group given atropine and 2 - PAM ( but not pyridostigmine bromide ) were also used .
The primary endpoint in this study was a decrease in the lethality of soman expressed as an increase in the LD50 ( the dose of soman that killed 50 % of the animals ) .
The atropine / 2 - PAM control group showed a small but statistically significant 1 . 6 - fold increase in the soman LD50 compared to the untreated control group .
The groups given pyridostigmine bromide as well as atropine and 2 PAM showed increases in the soman LD50 of at least 40 - fold compared to the untreated control group and at least 25 fold compared to the atropine / 2 - PAM group .
The two dose levels of pyridostigmine bromide showed similar effectiveness .
Additional studies in rhesus monkeys and guinea pigs also showed effectiveness of pyridostigmine bromide ( in the presence of post - soman administration of atropine and 2 - PAM ) .
The magnitude of effect in guinea pigs was smaller than that in monkeys ( soman LD50 increased 4 to 7 fold compared to untreated control and 2 - to 4 - fold compared to atropine / 2 - PAM alone ) .
Pyridostigmine bromide produced only small and inconsistent effects in studies in rats , mice , and rabbits .
It is thought that the effect of pyridostigmine bromide in rats and mice is masked by high blood levels of the enzyme carboxylesterase , which eliminates soman from blood and makes those species highly resistant to soman .
In a study in which rats were given an inhibitor of carboxylesterase , pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide plus atropine and 2 PAM increased the LD50 of soman 8 . 5 - fold compared to untreated controls .
Humans have little or no carboxylesterase in blood .
Animal studies have shown that pyridostigmine bromide pretreatment was effective only when animals were given atropine and 2 - PAM after exposure to soman .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Evidence of the effectiveness of pyridostigmine as a pretreatment for soman poisoning was obtained from studies in animals alone , because it is clearly unethical to perform such studies in humans .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP , 30 mg , are round , white tablets imprinted with the letters " PBT . "
Immediate Container : Twenty - one ( 21 ) tablets individually sealed in a blister or strip package which is supplied in a protective sleeve .
NDC : 72458 - 128 - 01 NSN 6505 - 01 - 178 - 7903 The NSN refers to the actual unit that is ordered from supply ( if someone orders 1 of this stock number they will get one package of 10 blister packs ) .
Storage Store in refrigerator ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) ( 36 to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Discard the contents of the blister package after removal from refrigerator for more than a total of 3 months .
Do not use after the 10 - year expiration date provided on the package .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets , USP , 30 mg are supplied with a Patient Information Sheet .
Personnel should be instructed to read the Patient Information Sheet before using Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets , USP , 30 mg .
The following information and advice should be discussed with personnel when Pyridostigmine Bromide is issued .
17 . 1 Indication and Conditions of Use • Pyridostigmine bromide is approved as a pretreatment for protection against the chemical nerve agent soman ( GD ) .
PB has not been approved for use against other chemical nerve agents including Sarin ( GB ) , Tabun ( GA ) , and VX .
[ See Indications and Usage ( 1 ) . ]
The approval is based on safety studies in humans and effectiveness studies conducted in animals .
The FDA has approved pyridostigmine bromide based only on animal studies of effectiveness because it is not ethical to do these studies in humans .
Human studies would require exposing people to the deadly effects of nerve agents , risking poisoning them or even killing them .
Studies in monkeys and guinea pigs show that pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide makes the antidotes ( atropine and 2 - PAM ) work better against soman ( GD ) .
[ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) . ]
• The main protection against chemical weapons is the chemical protective mask and battle dress overgarments .
[ See boxed WARNINGS and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) . ]
• Pyridostigmine bromide is used as a pretreatment against a soman nerve agent attack .
Based on the animal studies , it is thought that any potential benefits from use of pyridostigmine bromide occur only if : • ( 1 ) It is taken within 8 hours before , but not right before , exposure to the nerve agent soman .
If it is taken right before ( when the nerve gas attack alarm is given ) or during nerve agent exposure , it may not work and may make the effects of soman worse .
• ( 2 ) Atropine and 2 - PAM are used when symptoms of nerve agent poisoning occur .
The two antidotes are part of the ATNAA ( Antidote Treatment – Nerve Agent Autoinjector ) .
See Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) .
17 . 2 Dosage and Administration • The chain of command will tell personnel when it is time to take pyridostigmine bromide , based on the threat of exposure to soman nerve agents .
• One tablet must be taken every 8 hours until the chain of command tells personnel to stop taking pyridostigmine bromide .
• Pyridostigmine bromide tablets must not be taken more often .
The dose must not be doubled if a dose has been missed .
• There is no known advantage to taking extra pyridostigmine bromide right before soman exposure .
• No further pyridostigmine bromide should be taken after nerve agent exposure has occurred , instead : • Persons experiencing most or all of the MILD symptoms of nerve agent poisoning ( runny nose ; watery eyes ; small , pinpoint pupils ; eye pain ; blurred vision ; drooling and excessive sweating ; cough ; chest tightness ; rapid breathing ; diarrhea ; increased urination ; confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; headache ; nausea , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain ; slow or fast heart rate ; and / or abnormally low or high blood pressure ) should IMMEDIATELY AVOID INHALATION ( hold their breath ) AND PUT ON THEIR PROTECTIVE MASK .
Then atropine and 2 PAM ( one ATNAA ) must be administered .
See Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) .
Personnel should contact their unit medical officer if adverse reactions from pyridostigmine bromide continue and limit duty performance .
17 . 3 Contraindications and Precautions Pyridostigmine bromide must not be taken by persons with any of the following : • Mechanical bowel or bladder obstruction • Hypersensitivity to anticholinesterase medicines ( certain drugs used during surgery like physostigmine , edrophonium , neostigmine , and ambenonium ) See Contraindications ( 4 ) .
Personnel should be instructed to inform their doctor or medic before taking pyridostigmine bromide if they : • Are pregnant • Have asthma • Are allergic to bromide • Take a beta blocker ( a medicine to treat , eg , high blood pressure ) • Have high eye pressure ( glaucoma ) • Have any other medical condition , including heart problems or reflux esophagitis ( GERD ) See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) .
17 . 4 Side Effects ( Adverse Reactions ) The following adverse reactions are possible ( this list of adverse reactions is not complete . )
: • Stomach cramps • Gas • Diarrhea • Nausea • Frequent urination • Increased salivation • Sweating • Headaches • Dizziness • Watery eyes • Blurred vision • Runny nose • Difficulty or tightness in breathing • Acid stomach ( including heartburn or reflux ) • Tingling of fingers , toes , arms , and legs • Muscle twitching or weakness • Muscle cramps See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) .
Most side effects are mild and will disappear without treatment .
Pyridostigmine bromide has been safely used and has been FDA approved for over 40 years in the US to treat a disease called myasthenia gravis ( MG ) .
Human studies of pyridostigmine bromide at doses intended for military use have found pyridostigmine bromide to be generally safe .
Personnel should contact their unit medical officer if side effects from pyridostigmine bromide continue and limit duty performance .
17 . 5 Collection of Information The Department of Defense ( DoD ) may collect information on the use of pyridostigmine bromide to help decide how best to protect deployed forces in the future .
Information that identifies individual persons will remain confidential .
However , the FDA may review any data collected by DoD for the purpose of evaluating pyridostigmine bromide .
17 . 6 Questions and Requests for Information Questions about personnel rights and welfare should be directed to the unit medical officer , or e - mailed to usamrmcregulatoryaffairs @ mail . mil .
Personnel can receive information about pyridostigmine bromide from unit medical officers or medics .
Questions about pyridostigmine bromide can also be e - mailed directly to the US Army Medical Research and Materiel Command at address usarmy . detrick . medcom - usammda . mbx . usamrmc - regulatory - affairs @ mail . mil .
Distributed by : Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support , Philadelphia Medical Directorate 700 Robbins Ave Philadelphia , PA 19111 For : Office of the Surgeon General U . S . Army Medical Research and Development Command ATTN : FCMR - ORA 1430 Veterans Drive Fort Detrick , MD 21702 - 5012 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 21 Tablet Blister Pack NDC 72458 - 128 - 01 Rx Only Quantity : 21 Tablets NSN 6505 - 01 - 178 - 7903 PYRIDOSTIGMINE BROMIDE TABLETS USP , 30 MG [ Soman Nerve Agent Pretreatment Pyridostgimine ( SNAPP ) ] Date of issue _____ / _____ / _____ Discard 3 months after issue .
Stop Taking Pyridostigmine Tablets : • If You Are Exposed to Soman Nerve Agent • If You Hear a Gas Attack Alarm Manufactured by Bausch Health Companies Inc . , Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 for US Department of Defense LOT : 0000000 EXP . : XXX 0000 Dft _ Fridge ( 18 - 11 - 30 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
