Active ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Cough Suppressant & topical analgesic Cough Suppressant Cough Suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • on chest & throat , temporarily relieves cough due to the common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions see important warnings under “ When using this product ” • adults & children 2 yrs & over : • rub a thick layer on chest & throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , special petrolatum , spirits of turpentine , thymol Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consequences * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributr of Vicks VapoRub CARDINAL HEALTH , the Cardinal Health LOGO , LEADER and the Leader LOGO are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cardinal Health .
DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH , DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 Essential to Care since 1979 Cardinal Health principal display panel LEADER NDC 70000 - 0275 - 1 Medicated Chest Rub Cough Suppressant Topical Analgesic Compare to Vicks Vaporub active ingredients * 100 % money back guarantee NET WT 1 . 76 OZ ( 50 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
