CAPSAICIN – Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Cream SA3 , LLC Disclaimer : Most OTC drugs are not reviewed and approved by FDA , however they may be marketed if they comply with applicable regulations and policies .
FDA has not evaluated whether this product complies .
---------- Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Cream Drug Facts Active ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • sprains Warnings For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use .
Test first on small area of skin .
Do not • Apply to wounds or damaged skin • Bandage tightly • If you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers When using this product • You may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • Severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application .
Children under 2 years : consult a doctor Other information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Cetearyl Alcohol , Chondroitin Sulfate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glucosamine Sulfate , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Isostearyl Palmitate , Laureth - 7 , Methylsufonylmethane ( MSM ) , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Polyacrylate , Stearic Acid , and Triethanolamine PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Capsaicin 0 . 025 % cream NDC 69420 - 6025 - 5 50 grams SA3 , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Capsaicin 0 . 025 % cream NDC 69420 - 6025 - 1 120 grams SA3 , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
