Kit contains : Anticavity Toothpaste for Sensitive Teeth + Anticavity Gel for Sensitive Teeth + Foaming Anticavity Mouthwash for Sensitive Teeth Drug Facts Active ingredient ( Anticavity Toothpaste ) Potassium Nitrate 5 % Sodium Fluoride 0 . 24 % ( 0 . 10 % W / V fluoride ion ) ( Anticavity Gel ) Potassium Nitrate 5 % Sodium Fluoride 0 . 24 % ( 0 . 15 % W / V fluoride ion ) ( Foaming Anticavity Mouthwash ) Sodium Fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % W / V fluoride ion ) Purpose ( Anticavity Toothpaste only ) Potassium Nitrate .......... For sensitive teeth Sodium Fluoride ............
Anticavity ( Anticavity Gel only ) Potassium Nitrate .......... For sensitive teeth Sodium Fluoride ............
Anticavity ( Foaming Anticavity Mouthwash ) Sodium Fluoride ......... Anticavity Uses ( Anticavity Toothpaste ) • helps reduce painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
( Anticavity Gel ) • helps reduce painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Use ( Foaming Anticavity Mouthwash ) Aids in the prevention of dental decay .
Warnings ( Anticavity Toothpaste ) When using this product do not use longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
( Anticavity Gel ) When using this product do not use longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ( Anticavity Toothpaste ) • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
• Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
• Children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
( Anticavity Gel ) • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
• Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
• Children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
( Foaming Anticavity Mouthwash ) Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older Use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste .
Vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not swallow the rinse .
Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing .
Children under 12 years of age Instruct in good brushing and rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) , Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision .
Children under 6 years of age Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other Information Do not use if outer container is open or if sticker seal on the lid is missing or broken .
Inactive Ingredients ( Anticavity Toothpaste ) Sorbitol , Water ( purified ) , Hydrated Silica , Glycerin , Tricalcium Phosphate , Flavor , Xanthan Gum , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Sodium Saccharin , Sodium Benzoate , Titanium Dioxide ( Anticavity Gel ) Water ( purified ) , Vegetable Glycerin , Sodium Carboxymethylcellulose , Xylitol , Flavor , Sodium Saccharin , Monosodium Phosphate , Hydrated Silica ( Foaming Anticavity Mouthwash ) Water , Xylitol , Glycerin , Poloxamer 407 , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Chinese Mint ( Mentha Arvensis ) Oil , Hydroxyapatite , Potassium Citrate , Tocopherol , Sodium Saccharin , Calcium Gluconate , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Benzoate Questions or comments ?
+ 1 ( 646 ) 9806461 Kit for Sensitive Teeth Labeling Spotlight Oral Care S Kit for Sensitive Teeth Contains Sodium Fluoride Potassium Nitrate Fluoride AnticavityToothpaste Net Wt .
3 . 5 oz ( 100 g ) + Fluoride Anticavity Foaming Mouthwash for Strengthening Enamel 1 fl oz ( 30 ml ) + Fluoride Anticavity Gel for Sensitive Teeth 0 . 5 fl oz ( 15 ml ) MADE IN THE USA Distributed by Spotlight Oral Care INC , 90 South Dale , Suite # 8 , Saint Paul , Minnesota , USA 55102 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
