Rx only DESCRIPTION Chemically , trimethobenzamide HCl is N - [ p - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethoxy ] benzyl ] - 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxybenzamide monohydrochloride .
It has a molecular weight of 424 . 93 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule for oral use contains trimethobenzamide hydrochloride equivalent to 300 mg .
Inactive Ingredients : FDA / E172 Red Iron Oxide , gelatin , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and titanium dioxide .
The imprinting ink contains D & C Yellow # 10 Lake , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 , FD & C Red # 40 , Iron Oxide Black , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of ActionThe mechanism of action of trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules as determined in animals is obscure , but may involve the chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) , an area in the medulla oblongata through which emetic impulses are conveyed to the vomiting center ; direct impulses to the vomiting center apparently are not similarly inhibited .
In dogs pretreated with trimethobenzamide HCl , the emetic response to apomorphine is inhibited , while little or no protection is afforded against emesis induced by intragastric copper sulfate .
PharmacokineticsThe pharmacokinetics of trimethobenzamide have been studied in healthy adult subjects .
Following administration of 200 mg ( 100 mg / mL ) trimethobenzamide hydrochloride I . M . injection , the time to reach maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) was about half an hour , about 15 minutes longer for trimethobenzamide hydrochloride 300 mg oral capsule than an I . M . injection .
A single dose of trimethobenzamide hydrochloride 300 mg oral capsule provided a plasma concentration profile of trimethobenzamide similar to trimethobenzamide hydrochloride 200 mg I . M .
The relative bioavailability of the capsule formulation compared to the solution is 100 % .
The mean elimination half - life of trimethobenzamide is 7 to 9 hours .
Between 30 – 50 % of a single dose in humans is excreted unchanged in the urine within 48 – 72 hours .
The major pathway of trimethobenzamide metabolism is through oxidation resulting in the formation of trimethobenzamide N - oxide metabolite .
The pharmacologic activity of this major metabolite has not been evaluated .
Special PopulationsAgeThe clearance of trimethobenzamide is not known in patients with renal impairment .
However , it may be advisable to consider reduction in the dosing of trimethobenzamide in elderly patients with renal impairment considering that a substantial amount of excretion and elimination of trimethobenzamide occurs via the kidney and that elderly patients may have various degrees of renal impairment .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
GenderSystemic exposure to trimethobenzamide was similar between men ( N = 40 ) and women ( N = 28 ) .
RacePharmacokinetics appeared to be similar for Caucasians ( N = 53 ) and African Americans ( N = 12 ) .
Renal ImpairmentThe clearance of trimethobenzamide is not known in patients with renal impairment .
However , it may be advisable to consider reduction in the dosing of trimethobenzamide in patients with renal impairment considering that a substantial amount of excretion and elimination of trimethobenzamide occurs via the kidney .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting and for nausea associated with gastroenteritis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of any dosage form in patients with known hypersensitivity to trimethobenzamide is contraindicated .
WARNINGS Caution should be exercised when administering trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules to children for the treatment of vomiting .
Antiemetics are not recommended for treatment of uncomplicated vomiting in children and their use should be limited to prolonged vomiting of known etiology .
There are two principal reasons for caution : • The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules may be confused with the central nervous system signs of an undiagnosed primary disease responsible for the vomiting , e . g . , Reye ' s syndrome or other encephalopathy .
• It has been suspected that drugs with hepatotoxic potential , such as trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules , may unfavorably alter the course of Reye ' s syndrome .
Such drugs should therefore be avoided in children whose signs and symptoms ( vomiting ) could represent Reye ' s syndrome .
Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules may produce drowsiness .
Patients should not operate motor vehicles or other dangerous machinery until their individual responses have been determined .
Usage in PregnancyTrimethobenzamide hydrochloride was studied in reproduction experiments in rats and rabbits and no teratogenicity was suggested .
The only effects observed were an increased percentage of embryonic resorptions or stillborn pups in rats administered 20 mg and 100 mg / kg and increased resorptions in rabbits receiving 100 mg / kg .
In each study these adverse effects were attributed to one or two dams .
The relevance to humans is not known .
Since there is no adequate experience in pregnant or lactating women who have received this drug , safety in pregnancy or in nursing mothers has not been established .
Usage with AlcoholConcomitant use of alcohol with trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules may result in an adverse drug interaction .
PRECAUTIONS During the course of acute febrile illness , encephalitides , gastroenteritis , dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , especially in children and the elderly or debilitated , CNS reactions such as opisthotonos , convulsions , coma and extrapyramidal symptoms have been reported with and without use of trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules or other antiemetic agents .
In such disorders caution should be exercised in administering trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules , particularly to patients who have recently received other CNS - acting agents ( phenothiazines , barbiturates , belladonna derivatives ) .
Primary emphasis should be directed toward the restoration of body fluids and electrolyte balance , the relief of fever and relief of the causative disease process .
Overhydration should be avoided since it may result in cerebral edema .
The antiemetic effects of trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules may render diagnosis more difficult in such conditions as appendicitis and obscure signs of toxicity due to overdosage of other drugs .
GeneralAdjustment of Dose in Renal FailureA substantial route of elimination of unchanged trimethobenzamide is via the kidney .
Dosage adjustment should be considered in patients with reduced renal function including some elderly patients .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of trimethobenzamide hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Although there are studies reported in the literature that included elderly patients > 65 years old with younger patients , it is not known if there are differences in efficacy or safety parameters for elderly and non - elderly patients treated with trimethobenzamide .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions and Parkinson - like symptoms .
There have been instances of hypotension reported following parenteral administration to surgical patients .
There have been reports of blood dyscrasias , blurring of vision , coma , convulsions , depression of mood , diarrhea , disorientation , dizziness , drowsiness , headache , jaundice , muscle cramps and opisthotonos .
If these occur , the administration of the drug should be discontinued .
Allergic - type skin reactions have been observed ; therefore , the drug should be discontinued at the first sign of sensitization .
While these symptoms will usually disappear spontaneously , symptomatic treatment may be indicated in some cases .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
Dosage should be adjusted according to the indication for therapy , severity of symptoms and the response of the patient .
Geriatric PatientsDose adjustment such as reducing the total dose administered at each dosing or increasing the dosing interval should be considered in elderly patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 70 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) .
Final dose adjustment should be based upon integration of clinical efficacy and safety considerations .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Patients with Renal ImpairmentIn subjects with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 70 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , dose adjustment such as reducing the total dose administered at each dosing or increasing the dosing interval should be considered .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ) .
CAPSULES , 300 mg Usual Adult DosageOne 300 mg capsule t . i . d . or q . i . d . HOW SUPPLIED Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules are supplied as follows : Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules 300 mg , swedish orange opaque , imprinted MUTUAL over 401 on both the body and cap .
NDC 54868 - 5741 - 1 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5741 - 0 Bottles of 100 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] DISPENSE IN TIGHT , LIGHT - RESISTANT CONTAINER .
Manufactured by : Mutual Pharmaceutical Company , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19124 USA Rev 03 , January 2009 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride capsules 300 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
