Active Ingredients Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • more than one patch on your body at a time • on cut , irritated or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor • if you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients • if pouch is damaged or opened When using this product • use only as directed • read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton • do not allow contact with the eyes • do not sue at the same time as other topical analgesics • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • do not microwave • dispose of used patch in a manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep our of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Clean and dry affected area .
Carefully remove backing from patch starting at a corner .
Apply sticky side of patch to affected area .
Use one patch for up to 12 hours .
Discard patch after single use .
Children under 12 years of age : consuly a physician .
Other Information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Other Ingredients Glycerin , Sodium polyacrylate , Dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , Edetate disodium , Kaolin , Carboxymethylcellulose sodium , Titanium dioxide , L - Tartaric acid , Polyacrylic acid , Propylene glycol , Polysorbate 80 , Isopropyl Myristate , Hydroxyacetophenone , Water , and PVP Questions or comments ?
866 - 747 - 7365 Manufactured for : SOLA PHARMACEUTICALS LLC Baton Rouge , LA 70810 www . solameds . us Made in China Capsimide Patch NDC 70512 - 016 - 10 Qty : 10 Patches ( 1 per pouch ) x 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
