Lidothol Gel ( Lidocaine 4 . 5 % , Menthol 5 % ) Rx only DESCRIPTION Lidothol Gel ( Lidocaine 4 . 5 % , Menthol 5 % ) is comprised of a gel inside of a tube containing 4 . 5 % Lidocaine and 5 % Menthol .
Inactive ingredients : Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Boswellia Serrata Gum Extract , Butylene Glycol , Dimethyl Sulfone , Ethylhexylglycerin , llex Paraguariensis Leaf Extract , Magnesium Sulfate , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate - 20 , Propylene Glycol , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Triethanolamine , Water CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Lidocaine is an amide - type local anesthetic agent .
The penetration of lidocaine into intact skin after application of Lidothol Gel is sufficient to produce annalgesic effect , but less than the amount necessary to produce a complete sensory block .
Menthol is a covalent organic compound made synthetically or obtained from peppermint or other mint oils .
Menthol induces a cooling sensation on the skin upon topical application by stimulating the cold - sensitive receptors expressed on the skin , without actually causing a drop in the skin temperature .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption The amount of lidocaine systemically absorbed from Lidothol Gel is directly related to both the duration of application and the surface area over which it is applied .
Menthol occurs in numerous over - the - counter products .
Although extensively used , there have been no estimates of human exposure following administration via dermal application .
Distribution At concentrations produced by application of Lidothol Gel , approximately 70 % of the lidocaine dose is reported to be bound to plasma proteins , primarily alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
At higher plasma concentrations ( 1 to 4 mcg / mL of free base ) , the plasma protein binding of lidocaine is concentration dependent .
Metabolism It is not known if Lidothol Gel is metabolized in the skin .
Excretion Lidocaine and its metabolites are excreted by the kidneys .
Less than 10 % of lidocaine is excreted unchanged .
The half - life of lidocaine elimination from the plasma following IV administration is 81 to 149 minutes ( mean 107 ± 22 SD , n = 15 ) .
The systemic clearance is 0 . 33 to 0 . 90 L / min ( mean 0 . 64 ± 2 max max 0 . 18 SD , n = 15 ) .
INDICATION AND USAGE Lidothol Gel is indicated for relief of pain associated with arthritis , backache , cramps , discomfort , neckache , soreness , sprains , strains .
It should be applied only to intact skin .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidothol Gel is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type , or to any other component of the product .
WARNINGS Medicines intended to be applied to the skin should not be swallowed .
Lidothol Gel is flammable .
Keep away from open flame .
You should never heat , microwave , or add the medicine to hot water .
Risk of Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with lidocaine use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing the condition .
If lidocaine must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying Lidothol Gel to larger areas could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations , leading to serious adverse effects ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Systemic Reactions ) .
Lidocaine toxicity could be expected at lidocaine blood concentrations above 5 mcg / mL .
The blood concentration of lidocaine is determined by the rate of systemic absorption and elimination .
Longer duration of application of more than the recommended number of doses , smaller patients , or impaired elimination may all contribute to increased blood concentration of lidocaine .
PRECAUTIONS General Hepatic Disease Patients with severe hepatic disease are at greater risk of developing toxic blood concentrations of Lidocaine and menthol , because of their inability to metabolize lidocaine and menthol normally .
Allergic Reactions Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
However , Lidothol Gel should be used with caution in patients with a history of drug sensitivities , especially if the etiologic agent is uncertain .
Although rare , get emergency medical help if you have signs of an allergic reaction from oral or topical application of menthol : hives , difficulty breathing , or swelling of your face , lips , tongue , or throat .
Non - intact Skin Application to broken or inflamed skin , although not tested , may result in higher blood concentrations of lidocaine and menthol from increased absorption .
Lidothol Gel is only recommended for use on intact skin .
External Heat Sources Placement of external heat sources , such as heating pads or electric blankets , over Lidothol Gel is not recommended as this has not been evaluated and may increase plasma lidocaine levels .
Eye Exposure The contact of Lidothol Gel with eyes , although not studied , should be avoided based on the findings of severe eye irritation with the use of similar products in animals .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and protect the eye until sensation returns .
Information for Patients Methemoglobinemia Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs Lidothol Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Local Anesthetics When Lidothol Gel is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with Lidothol Gel Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric oxide , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase , Antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides , Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants Phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate , Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis Impairment of Fertility The effect of Lidothol Gel on fertility has not been studied .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Lidothol Gel has not been studied in pregnancy .
Labor and Delivery Lidothol Gel has not been studied in labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Lidothol Gel has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Application Site Reactions During or immediately after treatment with Lidothol Gel , the skin at the site of application may develop blisters , bruising , burning sensation , depigmentation , dermatitis , discoloration , edema , erythema , exfoliation , irritation , papules , petechia , pruritus , vesicles , or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
These reactions are generally mild and transient , resolving spontaneously within a few minutes to hours .
Other Adverse Events Due to the nature and limitation of spontaneous reports in post marketing surveillance , causality has not been established for additional reported adverse events including : Asthenia , confusion , disorientation , dizziness , headache , hyperesthesia , hypoesthesia , lightheadedness , metallic taste , nausea , nervousness , pain exacerbated , paresthesia , somnolence , taste alteration , vomiting , visual disturbances such as blurred vision , flushing , tinnitus , and tremor .
Systemic ( Dose - Related ) Reactions Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of Lidothol Gel are unlikely , due to the small dose absorbed ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine is similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents , including CNS excitation and / or depression ( light headedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest ) .
Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness .
Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia , hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest .
Sensitivity reactions associated with the use of mentholated products have been reported .
Use of mentholated nasal drops in infants has evidently caused isolated cases of spasm of the larynx , and a few cases of nervous or digestive system disturbance have been associated with excessive inhalation or oral exposure to menthol OVERDOSAGE Lidocaine overdose from cutaneous absorption is rare but could occur .
If there is any suspicion of lidocaine overdose ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Systemic Reactions ) , drug blood concentration should be checked .
The management of overdose includes close monitoring , supportive care , and symptomatic treatment .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdose with lidocaine .
In the absence of massive topical overdose or oral ingestion , evaluation of symptoms of toxicity should include consideration of other etiologies for the clinical effects , or overdosage from other sources of lidocaine or other local anesthetics .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Lidothol Gel to intact skin to cover the most painful area .
Clean and dry the affected area .
Apply product directly to your skin , up to 4 times daily .
Clothing may be worn over the area of application .
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application , wash the product off your skin and do not reapply until the irritation subsides .
When Lidothol Gel is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
HANDLING AND DISPOSAL Hands should be washed after the handling of Lidothol Gel , and eye contact with Lidothol Gel should be avoided .
Store in a cool , dry place with lid tightly closed .
Lidothol Gel should be kept out of the reach of children .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidothol Gel is available as the following : 1 tube , 3 . 5 oz NDC 76420 - 253 - 04 ( relabeled from NDC 53225 - 1026 - 1 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
For more information , contact Terrain Pharmaceuticals .
info @ terrainrx . com Relabeled by : Enovachem PHARMACEUTICALS Torrance , CA 90501 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
