ACTIVE INGREDIENT Povidone Iodine USP 7 . 5 % w / v ( equivalent to 0 . 75 % titratable iodine ) PURPOSE Antiseptic USES • Surgical hand scrub for health care professionals • Health Care Antiseptic for preparation of the skin prior to surgery • First Aid Antiseptic to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns WARNINGS For external use only .
Do not • use in the eyes • apply over large areas of the body • use on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine • use as a first aid antiseptic for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor in case of • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor • if condition persists for more than 72 hours • if irritation and redness develop Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS As a surgical hand scrub for use by health care professionals • clean under nails with a nail pick • nails should be maintained with 1 millimeter free edge • wet hands and forearms • apply milliliter ( teaspoon ) or palmful to hands and forearms • scrub thoroughly paying particular attention to nails , cuticles and interdigital spaces • rinse and repeat scrub For preparation of the skin prior to surgery • clean the affected area • apply to the operative site prior to surgery As a first aid antiseptic • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product to the area 1 - 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS citric acid , glycerin , nonoxynol - 9 , PEG - 300 , sodium hydroxide , sodium phosphate , water LABEL INFORMATION Triadine Cat .
No . 10 - 8316 NDC 50730 - 8316 - 4 POVIDONE IODINE , USP SCRUB SOLUTION 7 . 5 % Topical Solution Antiseptic / Germicide PRE - SURGICAL HAND SCRUB .
Significantly reduces the number of micro - organisms on hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care ANTISEPTIC for preparation of the skin prior to surgery FIRST AID ANTISEPTIC to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns For External Use Only !
16 Fluid Ounces ( 473 ml ) www . triad - group . net Triad Disposables , Inc .
Brookfield , WI 53045 MADE IN USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
