Rx ONLY PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefotaxime for Injection , USP ( cefotaxime sodium ) and other antibacterial drugs , Cefotaxime for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Sterile cefotaxime sodium is a semisynthetic , broad spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - amino - 4 - thiazolyl ) glyoxylamido ] - 3 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 8 - oxo - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylate 72 ( Z ) - ( o - methyloxime ) , acetate ( ester ) .
Cefotaxime for Injection , USP contains approximately 50 . 5 mg ( 2 . 2 mEq ) of sodium per gram of cefotaxime activity .
Solutions of Cefotaxime for Injection , USP range from very pale yellow to light amber depending on the concentration and the diluent used .
The pH of the injectable solutions usually ranges from 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 .
The CAS Registry Number is 64485 - 93 - 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C16H16N5NaO7S2 MW 477 . 45 Cefotaxime for Injection , USP is supplied as a dry powder in Pharmacy Bulk Packages containing cefotaxime sodium equivalent to 10 g of cefotaxime .
FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED BEFORE USE .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use , which contains many single doses .
This Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in a pharmacy admixture service ; it provides many singles doses of cefotaxime for addition to suitable parenteral fluids in the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and DIRECTIONS FOR PROPER USE OF PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following IM administration of a single 500 mg or 1 g dose of cefotaxime to normal volunteers , mean peak serum concentrations of 11 . 7 and 20 . 5 mcg / mL respectively were attained within 30 minutes and declined with an elimination half - life of approximately 1 hour .
There was a dose ‑ dependent increase in serum levels after the IV administration of 500 mg , 1 g , and 2 g of cefotaxime ( 38 . 9 , 101 . 7 , and 214 . 4 mcg / mL respectively ) without alteration in the elimination half - life .
There is no evidence of accumulation following repetitive IV infusion of 1 g doses every 6 hours for 14 days as there are no alterations of serum or renal clearance .
About 60 % of the administered dose was recovered from urine during the first 6 hours following the start of the infusion .
Approximately 20 - 36 % of an intravenously administered dose of 14 C - cefotaxime is excreted by the kidney as unchanged cefotaxime and 15 - 25 % as the desacetyl derivative , the major metabolite .
The desacetyl metabolite has been shown to contribute to the bactericidal activity .
Two other urinary metabolites ( M2 and M3 ) account for about 20 - 25 % .
They lack bactericidal activity .
A single 50 mg / kg dose of cefotaxime was administered as an intravenous infusion over a 10 - to 15 - minute period to 29 newborn infants grouped according to birth weight and age .
The mean half - life of cefotaxime in infants with lower birth weights ( ≤ 1500 grams ) , regardless of age , was longer ( 4 . 6 hours ) than the mean half - life ( 3 . 4 hours ) in infants whose birth weight was greater than 1500 grams .
Mean serum clearance was also smaller in the lower birth weight infants .
Although the differences in mean half - life values are statistically significant for weight , they are not clinically important .
Therefore , dosage should be based solely on age .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection . )
Drug Interactions A single intravenous dose and oral dose of probenecid ( 500 mg each ) followed by two oral doses of probenecid 500 mg at approximately hourly intervals administered to three healthy male subjects receiving a continuous infusion of cefotaxime increased the steady - state plasma concentration of cefotaxime by approximately 80 % .
In another study , administration of oral probenecid 500 mg every 6 hours to six healthy male subjects with cefotaxime 1 gram infused over 5 minutes decreased the total clearance of cefotaxime by approximately 50 % .
Additionally , no disulfiram - like reactions were reported in a study conducted in 22 healthy volunteers administered cefotaxime and ethanol .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cefotaxime sodium is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Cefotaxime has activity in the presence of some beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of Gram - negative and Gram - positive bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance Resistance to cefotaxime is primarily through hydrolysis by beta - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , and decreased permeability .
Susceptibility to cefotaxime will vary geographically and may change over time ; local susceptibility data should be consulted , if available .
Cefotaxime has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Gram - positive bacteria Enterococcus spp .
a Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible isolates only ) Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes ( Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci ) Streptococcus spp .
( Viridans group streptococci ) Gram - negative bacteria Acinetobacter spp .
Citrobacter spp .
b Enterobacter spp .
b Escherichia coli b Haemophilus influenzae Haemophilus parainfluenzae Klebsiella spp .
( including Klebsiella pneumoniae ) b Morganella morganii b Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( including beta - lactamase - positive and negative strains ) Neisseria meningitidis Proteus mirabilis b Proteus vulgaris b Providencia rettgeri b Providencia stuartii b Serratia marcescens b aEnterococcus species may be intrinsically resistant to cefotaxime .
b Most extended spectrum beta - lactamase ( ESBL ) - producing and carbapenemase - producing isolates are resistant to cefotaxime .
Anaerobic bacteria Bacteroides spp . , including some isolates of Bacteroides fragilis Clostridium spp .
( most isolates of Clostridium difficile are resistant ) Fusobacterium spp .
( including Fusobacterium nucleatum ) Peptococcus spp .
Peptostreptococcus spp .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for cefotaxime .
However , the efficacy of cefotaxime in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - negative bacteria Providencia spp .
Salmonella spp .
( including Salmonella typhi ) Shigella spp .
Susceptibility Test Methods For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment Cefotaxime for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of patients with serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below .
( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections , including pneumonia , caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae ( formerly Diplococcus pneumoniae ) , Streptococcus pyogenes * ( Group A streptococci ) and other streptococci ( excluding enterococci , e . g . , Enterococcus faecalis ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin resistant strains ) , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Proteus mirabilis , Serratia marcescens * , Enterobacter species , indole positive Proteus and Pseudomonas species ( including P . aeruginosa ) .
( 2 ) Genitourinary infections .
Urinary tract infections caused by Enterococcus species , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus aureus * , ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , Citrobacter species , Enterobacter species , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris * , Providencia stuartii , Morganella morganii * , Providencia rettgeri * , Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas species ( including P . aeruginosa ) .
Also , uncomplicated gonorrhea ( cervical / urethral and rectal ) caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae , including penicillinase producing strains .
( 3 ) Gynecologic infections , including pelvic inflammatory disease , endometritis and pelvic cellulitis caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus species , Enterococcus species , Enterobacter species * , Klebsiella species * , Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Bacteroides species ( including Bacteroides fragilis * ) , Clostridium species , and anaerobic cocci ( including Peptostreptococcus species and Peptococcus species ) and Fusobacterium species ( including F . nucleatum * ) .
Cefotaxime for Injection , USP , like other cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when cephalosporins are used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and C . trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate anti ‑ chlamydial coverage should be added .
( 4 ) Bacteremia / Septicemia caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , and Serratia marcescens , Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus species ( including S . pneumoniae ) .
( 5 ) Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes ( Group A streptococci ) and other streptococci , Enterococcus species , Acinetobacter species * , Escherichia coli , Citrobacter species ( including C . freundii * ) , Enterobacter species , Klebsiella species , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris * , Morganella morganii , Providencia rettgeri * , Pseudomonas species , Serratia marcescens , Bacteroides species , and anaerobic cocci ( including Peptostreptococcus * species and Peptococcus species ) .
( 6 ) Intra - abdominal infections including peritonitis caused by Streptococcus species * , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Bacteroides species , and anaerobic cocci ( including Peptostreptococcus * species and Peptococcus * species ) Proteus mirabilis * , and Clostridium species * .
( 7 ) Bone and / or joint infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non ‑ penicillinase producing strains ) , Streptococcus species ( including S . pyogenes * ) , Pseudomonas species ( including P . aeruginosa * ) , and Proteus mirabilis * .
( 8 ) Central nervous system infections , e . g . , meningitis and ventriculitis , caused by Neisseria meningitidis , Haemophilus influenzae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Klebsiella pneumoniae * and Escherichia coli * .
( * ) Efficacy for this organism , in this organ system , has been studied in fewer than 10 infections .
Although many strains of enterococci ( e . g . , S . faecalis ) and Pseudomonas species are resistant to cefotaxime sodium in vitro , Cefotaxime for Injection , USP has been used successfully in treating patients with infections caused by susceptible organisms .
Specimens for bacteriologic culture should be obtained prior to therapy in order to isolate and identify causative organisms and to determine their susceptibilities to cefotaxime .
Therapy may be instituted before results of susceptibility studies are known ; however , once these results become available , the antibiotic treatment should be adjusted accordingly .
In certain cases of confirmed or suspected gram - positive or gram - negative sepsis or in patients with other serious infections in which the causative organism has not been identified , Cefotaxime for Injection , USP may be used concomitantly with an aminoglycoside .
The dosage recommended in the labeling of both antibiotics may be given and depends on the severity of the infection and the patient ’ s condition .
Renal function should be carefully monitored , especially if higher dosages of the aminoglycosides are to be administered or if therapy is prolonged , because of the potential nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity of aminoglycoside antibiotics .
It is possible that nephrotoxicity may be potentiated if Cefotaxime for Injection , USP is used concomitantly with an aminoglycoside .
Prevention The administration of Cefotaxime for Injection , USP preoperatively reduces the incidence of certain infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures ( e . g . , abdominal or vaginal hysterectomy , gastrointestinal and genitourinary tract surgery ) that may be classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated .
In patients undergoing cesarean section , intraoperative ( after clamping the umbilical cord ) and postoperative use of Cefotaxime for Injection , USP may also reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection .
Effective use for elective surgery depends on the time of administration .
To achieve effective tissue levels , Cefotaxime for Injection , USP should be given 1 / 2 or 1 1 / 2 hours before surgery .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection .
For patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery , preoperative bowel preparation by mechanical cleansing as well as with a non - absorbable antibiotic ( e . g . , neomycin ) is recommended .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for culture should be obtained for identification of the causative organism so that appropriate therapy may be instituted .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefotaxime for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefotaxime for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefotaxime is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to cefotaxime sodium , or the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFOTAXIME IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFOTAXIME SODIUM , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
THIS PRODUCT SHOULD BE GIVEN WITH CAUTION TO PATIENTS WITH TYPE I HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLIN .
ANTIBIOTICS SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED WITH CAUTION TO ANY PATIENT WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED SOME FORM OF ALLERGY , PARTICULARLY TO DRUGS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFOTAXIME OCCURS , DISCONTINUE TREATMENT WITH THE DRUG .
SERIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
During post - marketing surveillance , a potentially life - threatening arrhythmia was reported in each of six patients who received a rapid ( less than 60 seconds ) bolus injection of cefotaxime through a central venous catheter .
Therefore , cefotaxime should only be administered as instructed in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefotaxime , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing cefotaxime in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Cefotaxime should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Because high and prolonged serum antibiotic concentrations can occur from usual doses in patients with transient or persistent reduction of urinary output because of renal insufficiency , the total daily dosage should be reduced when cefotaxime is administered to such patients .
Continued dosage should be determined by degree of renal impairment , severity of infection , and susceptibility of the causative organism .
Although there is no clinical evidence supporting the necessity of changing the dosage of cefotaxime sodium in patients with even profound renal dysfunction , it is suggested that , until further data are obtained , the dose of cefotaxime sodium be halved in patients with estimated creatinine clearances of less than 20 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
When only serum creatinine is available , the following formula5 ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to convert this value into creatinine clearance .
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function .
Weight ( kg ) x ( 140 - age ) Males : 72 × serum creatinine Females : 0 . 85 × above value As with other antibiotics , prolonged use of cefotaxime may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient ’ s condition is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
As with other beta - lactam antibiotics , granulocytopenia and , more rarely , agranulocytosis may develop during treatment with cefotaxime , particularly if given over long periods .
For courses of treatment lasting longer than 10 days , blood counts should therefore be monitored .
Cefotaxime , like other parenteral anti - infective drugs , may be locally irritating to tissues .
In most cases , perivascular extravasation of cefotaxime responds to changing of the infusion site .
In rare instances , extensive perivascular extravasation of cefotaxime may result in tissue damage and require surgical treatment .
To minimize the potential for tissue inflammation , infusion sites should be monitored regularly and changed when appropriate .
Information for patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including cefotaxime should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefotaxime is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefotaxime or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions Increased nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of cephalosporins and aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Probenecid interferes with the renal tubular transfer of cefotaxime , decreasing the total clearance of cefotaxime by approximately 50 % and increasing the plasma concentrations of cefotaxime .
Administration of cefotaxime in excess of 6 grams / day should be avoided in patients receiving probenecid ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Cephalosporins , including cefotaxime sodium , are known to occasionally induce a positive direct Coombs ’ test .
A false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with copper reduction tests ( Benedict ’ s or Fehling ’ s solution or with CLINITEST ® tablets ) , but not with enzyme - based tests for glycosuria ( e . g . , CLINISTIX ® or TesTape ® ) .
There are no reports in published literature that link elevations of plasma glucose levels to the use of cefotaxime .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis Lifetime studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been conducted .
Cefotaxime was not mutagenic in the mouse micronucleus test or in the Ames test .
Cefotaxime did not impair fertility to rats when administered subcutaneously at doses up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) or in mice when administered intravenously at doses up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant mice given cefotaxime intravenously at doses up to 1200 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 4 times the recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) or in pregnant rats when administered intravenously at doses up to 1200 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 8 times the recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
No evidence of embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was seen in these studies .
Although cefotaxime has been reported to cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood , the effect on the human fetus is not known .
There are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Use of the drug in women of child - bearing potential requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against the possible risks .
In perinatal and postnatal studies with rats , the pups in the group given 1200 mg / kg / day of cefotaxime were significantly lighter in weight at birth and remained smaller than pups in the control group during the 21 days of nursing .
Nursing Mothers Cefotaxime is excreted in human milk in low concentrations .
Caution should be exercised when cefotaxime is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use SeePRECAUTIONS above regarding perivascular extravasation .
Geriatric Use Of the 1409 subjects in clinical studies of cefotaxime , 632 ( 45 % ) were 65 and over , while 258 ( 18 % ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience Cefotaxime is generally well tolerated .
The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following IM or IV injection .
Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently .
The most frequent adverse reactions ( greater than 1 % ) are : Local ( 4 . 3 % ) - Injection site inflammation with IV administration .
Pain , induration , and tenderness after IM injection .
Hypersensitivity ( 2 . 4 % ) - Rash , pruritus , fever , eosinophilia .
Gastrointestinal ( 1 . 4 % ) - Colitis , diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting .
Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Less frequent adverse reactions ( less than 1 % ) are : Hematologic System - Neutropenia , transient leukopenia , have been reported .
Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with cefotaxime and other cephalosporin antibiotics .
Genitourinary System - Moniliasis , vaginitis .
Central Nervous System - Headache .
Liver - Transient elevations in AST , ALT , serum LDH , and serum alkaline phosphatase levels have been reported .
Kidney - As with some other cephalosporins , transient elevations of BUN have been occasionally observed with cefotaxime .
Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of cefotaxime .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular System - Potentially life - threatening arrhythmias following rapid ( less than 60 seconds ) bolus administration via central venous catheter have been observed .
Central Nervous System - Administration of high doses of beta - lactam antibiotics , including cefotaxime , particularly in patients with renal insufficiency may result in encephalopathy ( e . g . impairment of consciousness , abnormal movements and convulsions ) .
Cutaneous - As with other cephalosporins , isolated cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens ‑ Johnson syndrome , and erythema multiforme have been reported .
Hematologic System - Hemolytic anemia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity - Anaphylaxis ( e . g . , angioedema , bronchospasm , malaise possibly culminating in shock ) , urticaria .
Kidney - Interstitial nephritis , transient elevations of creatinine .
Liver - Hepatitis , jaundice , cholestasis , elevations of gamma GT and bilirubin .
Cephalosporin Class Labeling In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with cefotaxime sodium , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics : allergic reactions , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , and false - positive test for urinary glucose .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONand OVERDOSAGE .
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceutical Corp . at 1 - 877 ‑ 233 - 2001 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The acute toxicity of cefotaxime was evaluated in neonatal and adult mice and rats .
Significant mortality was seen at parenteral doses in excess of 6000 mg / kg / day in all groups .
Common toxic signs in animals that died were a decrease in spontaneous activity , tonic and clonic convulsions , dyspnea , hypothermia , and cyanosis .
Cefotaxime sodium overdosage has occurred in patients .
Most cases have shown no overt toxicity .
The most frequent reactions were elevations of BUN and creatinine .
There is a risk of reversible encephalopathy in cases of administration of high doses of beta - lactam antibiotics including cefotaxime .
No specific antidote exists .
Patients who receive an acute overdosage should be carefully observed and given supportive treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The intent of this Pharmacy Bulk Package is for the preparation of solutions for intravenous infusion only .
Dosing references to the intramuscular route of administration are for informational purposes only .
Adults Dosage and route of administration should be determined by susceptibility of the causative organisms , severity of the infection , and the condition of the patient ( see table for dosage guideline ) .
Cefotaxime may be administered IM or IV after reconstitution .
The maximum daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams .
GUIDELINES FOR DOSAGE OF CEFOTAXIME FOR INJECTIONType of Infection Daily Dose ( grams ) Frequency and Route Gonococcal urethritis / cervicitis in males and females 0 . 5 0 . 5 gram IM ( single dose ) Rectal gonorrhea in females 0 . 5 0 . 5 gram IM ( single dose ) Rectal gonorrhea in males 1 1 gram IM ( single dose ) Uncomplicated infections 2 1 gram every 12 hours IM or IV Moderate to severe infections 3 - 6 1 - 2 grams every 8 hours IM or IV Infections commonly needing antibiotics in higher dosage ( e . g . , septicemia ) 6 - 8 2 grams every 6 - 8 hours IV Life - threatening infections up to 12 2 grams every 4 hours IV If C . trachomatis is a suspected pathogen , appropriate anti - chlamydial coverage should be added , because cefotaxime sodium has no activity against this organism .
To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , the recommended dose is a single 1 gram IM or IV administered 30 to 90 minutes prior to start of surgery .
Cesarean Section Patients The first dose of 1 gram is administered intravenously as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped .
The second and third doses should be given as 1 gram intravenously or intramuscularly at 6 and 12 hours after the first dose .
Neonates , Infants , and Children The following dosage schedule is recommended : Neonates ( birth to 1 month ) : 0 - 1 week of age 50 mg / kg per dose every 12 hours IV 1 - 4 weeks of age 50 mg / kg per dose every 8 hours IV It is not necessary to differentiate between premature and normal - gestational age infants .
Infants and Children ( 1 month to 12 years ) : For body weights less than 50 kg , the recommended daily dose is 50 to 180 mg / kg IM or IV body weight divided into four to six equal doses .
The higher dosages should be used for more severe or serious infections , including meningitis .
For body weights 50 kg or more , the usual adult dosage should be used ; the maximum daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams .
Geriatric Use This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Generaland PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use . )
Impaired Renal Function See PRECAUTIONS , General .
NOTE : As with antibiotic therapy in general , administration of cefotaxime should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient defervesces or after evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained ; a minimum of 10 days of treatment is recommended for infections caused by Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci in order to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis ; frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of chronic urinary tract infection and may be required for several months after therapy has been completed ; persistent infections may require treatment of several weeks and doses smaller than those indicated above should not be used .
DIRECTIONS FOR PROPER USE OF PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE : The 10 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package should be penetrated ONLY ONE TIME utilizing a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set and should be reconstituted with 47 mL of diluent for an approximate concentration of 200 mg / mL ( withdrawable volume 52 mL ) or 97 mL of diluent for an approximate concentration of 100 mg / mL withdrawable volume 102 mL ) , in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood , using aseptic technique .
Shake to dissolve ; inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use .
Stock solutions may be further diluted for IV infusion with diluents as listed in COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITYsection .
The reconstituted content of the 10 g Pharmacy Bulk Package should be withdrawn immediately , using a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents .
However , if it is not possible , aliquoting operations must be completed within four hours of reconstitution .
Discard the reconstituted stock solution 4 hours after initial entry .
Solutions of cefotaxime range from very pale yellow to light amber , depending on concentration , diluent used , and length and condition of storage .
Reconstituted Bulk Solutions Should Not Be Used For Direct Infusion NOTE : Solutions of cefotaxime must not be admixed with aminoglycoside solutions .
If cefotaxime and aminoglycosides are to be administered to the same patient , they must be administered separately and not as mixed injection .
A SOLUTION OF 1 G CEFOTAXIME IN 14 ML OF STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION IS ISOTONIC .
IM Administration : As with all IM preparations , cefotaxime should be injected well within the body of a relatively large muscle such as the upper outer quadrant of the buttock ( i . e . , gluteus maximus ) ; aspiration is necessary to avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel .
Individual IM doses of 2 grams may be given if the dose is divided and is administered in different intramuscular sites .
IV Administration : The IV route is preferable for patients with bacteremia , bacterial septicemia , peritonitis , meningitis , or other severe or life - threatening infections , or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition , trauma , surgery , diabetes , heart failure , or malignancy , particularly if shock is present or impending .
For intermittent IV administration , a solution containing 1 gram or 2 grams in 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection can be injected over a period of three to five minutes .
Cefotaxime should not be administered over a period of less than three minutes .
( See WARNINGS ) .
With an infusion system , it may also be given over a longer period of time through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other IV solutions .
However , during infusion of the solution containing cefotaxime , it is advisable to discontinue temporarily the administration of other solutions at the same site .
For the administration of higher doses by continuous IV infusion , a solution of cefotaxime may be added to IV bottles containing the solutions discussed below .
COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY Solutions of cefotaxime reconstituted as described above ( DIRECTIONS FOR PROPER USE OF PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE ) should be discarded 4 hours after initial entry .
Reconstituted solutions may be further diluted up to 1000 mL with the following solutions and maintain satisfactory potency for 24 hours at or below 22 ° C , and at least 5 days under refrigeration ( at or below 5 ° C ) : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 or 10 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; Lactated Ringer ’ s Solution ; Sodium Lactate Injection ( M / 6 ) ; 10 % Invert Sugar Injection , 8 . 5 % TRAVASOL ® ( Amino Acid ) Injection without Electrolytes .
NOTE : Cefotaxime solutions exhibit maximum stability in the pH 5 - 7 range .
Solutions of cefotaxime should not be prepared with diluents having a pH above 7 . 5 , such as Sodium Bicarbonate Injection .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile Cefotaxime for Injection , USP , in Pharmacy Bulk Packages , is a dry off - white to pale yellow crystalline powder containing cefotaxime sodium as follows : 10 g cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) in bottles , packages of 1 ( NDC 0143 - 9935 - 01 ) ; NOT FOR DIRECT ADMINISTRATION .
Also available : 500 mg cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) vials in packages of 10 ( NDC 0143 - 9930 - 10 ) 1 g cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) vials in packages of 25 ( NDC 0143 - 9931 - 25 ) 2 g cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) vials in packages of 25 ( NDC 0143 - 9933 - 25 ) NOTE : Cefotaxime for Injection , USP in the dry state should be stored at 20º to 25 ° C ( 68º to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The dry material as well as solutions tend to darken depending on storage conditions and should be protected from elevated temperatures and excessive light .
REFERENCES • Cockcroft , D . W . and Gault , M . H . : Prediction of Creatinine Clearance from Serum Creatinine , Nephron 16 : 31 – 41 , 1976 .
Travasol ® is manufactured by Clintec .
Manufactured by : HIKMA FARMACÊUTICA ( PORTUGAL ) , S . A . Estrada do Rio da Mó , 8 , 8 A e 8 B - Fervença - 2705 – 906 Terrugem SNT , PORTUGAL Distributed by : WEST - WARD A HIKMA COMPANY Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised : July 2018 PIN106 - WES / 5 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9935 - 01 CEFOTAXIME FOR INJECTION , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION 10 grams * per Pharmacy Bulk Package NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT FOR IV USE ONLY Rx ONLY This Pharmacy Bulk Package is intended for preparing IV admixtures only .
See insert for complete dosage information and proper use of the container .
* Each vial contains sterile cefotaxime sodium equivalent to 10 g of cefotaxime .
The sodium content is approximately 50 . 5 mg ( 2 . 2 mEq ) of sodium per gram of cefotaxime .
USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert .
Reconstitute with suitable diluents as listed in the package insert .
Shake to dissolve .
Storage : Cefotaxime for Injection , USP in the dry state should be stored at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
RETAIN IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE .
Withdraw reconstituted contents immediately .
However , if it is not possible , aliquoting operations must be completed within 4 hours of reconstitution .
Discard reconstituted stock solution 4 hours after initial entry .
Concentration of the Solution Amount of Diluent 1 g / 5 mL 47 mL 1 g / 10 mL 97 mL Date Prepared : _________________ Do Not Use After : _____________________________ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
