Rx only Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo DESCRIPTION : A liquid antiseborrheic , antifungal preparation for topical application .
Each mL of Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo contains 23 . 0 mg selenium sulfide , and the following inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , cocamidopropyl betaine , disodium EDTA , D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 40 , fragrance , panthenol , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , purified water , strearyl alcohol , sodium laureth sulfate , sodium thiosulfate , tocopheryl acetate , triacetin , urea , xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Selenium sulfide appears to have a cytostatic effect on cells of the epidermis and follicular epithelium , reducing corneocyte production .
PHARMACOKINETICS : The mechanism of action of topically applied selenium sulfide is not yet known .
INDICATIONS & USAGE : A liquid antiseborrheic , antifungal preparation for the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , dandruff and tinea versicolor .
Urea hydrates and is useful for conditions such as dry scalp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
DO NOT USE ON BROKEN SKIN OR INFLAMED AREAS .
If allergic reaction occurs , discontinue use .
Avoid contact with eyes , genital areas and skin folds , as irritation and burning may result .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : This medication is to be used as directed by a physician .
Not to be used when inflammation or exudation is present as increased absorption may occur .
CARCINOGENESIS CARCINOGENESIS : Dermal application of 25 % and 50 % solutions of 2 . 5 % selenium sulfide lotion on mice over an 88 - week period indicated no carcinogenic effects .
USE IN PREGNANCY USE IN PREGNANCY : CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this medication .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when applied to the body surfaces of a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Under ordinary circumstances , selenium sulfide 2 . 3 % shampoo should not be used by pregnant women .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether or not this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In decreasing order of severity : skin irritation ; occasional reports of increase in normal hair loss ; discoloration of hair ( can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment ) .
As with other shampoos , oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur .
OVERDOSAGE : There are no documented reports of serious toxicity in humans resulting from acute ingestion of selenium sulfide 2 . 3 % shampoo .
However , acute toxicity studies in animals suggest that ingestion of large amounts could result in potential human toxicity .
Evacuation of the stomach contents should be considered in cases of acute oral ingestion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING For seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff : Generally 2 applications each week for 2 weeks will control symptoms .
Subsequently , shampoo may be used less frequently – weekly , every 2 weeks , every 3 to 4 weeks or as directed by a physician .
Should not be applied more frequently than necessary to maintain control .
For tinea versicolor : Wet skin and apply to affected areas .
Massage gently into skin working to a full lather .
Allow product to remain on skin for 10 minutes , then rinse thoroughly .
Repeat procedure once a day for seven days or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo is supplied in 6 fluid oz .
( 180 mL ) bottles , NDC 16477 - 423 - 06 .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : The product may darken upon storage .
Discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from freezing .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , inactive ingredients ( excipients ) and other chemical information provided herein .
NDC 16477 - 423 - 06 RX ONLY Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo 6 fluid oz .
( 180 mL ) FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Manufactured for : Laser Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30004 Rev 07 / 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
