Active ingredient Avobenzone , 2 . 0 % Octisalate , 5 . 0 % Octocrylene , 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn .
• • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other Information • • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive ingredients water , cyclohexasiloxane , glycerin , titanium dioxide , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , beeswax , myristyl myristate , stearic acid , palmitic acid , polyglyceryl - 10 pentastearate , behenyl alcohol , sodium steroyl lactylate , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , butylene glycol , carbomer , polysorbate 20 , palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , hydrolyzed soy protein , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , fragrance , triethanolamine , glycine soja ( soybean ) protein , xanthan gum , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A ) , phenoxyethanol , PEG - 20 stearate , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , phenethyl alcohol , alcohol denat . , chlorphenesin .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Awaken by Quality Choice ® anti - wrinkle & firming moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 18 SUNSCREEN Day cream with sunscreen With encapsulated pro - vitamin A & Matrixyl ™ & Sepilift ™ * Compare to L ’ Oreal ® Advanced Revitalift ® Complete Day Cream SPF18 ingredients NET WT 1 . 7 FL OZ ( 48 g ) Advanced Anti - Wrinkle Action : Encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A and Sepilift ™ will hasten skin renewal , reducing the amount of fine lines and wrinkles and their depth .
Results can be seen in just two weeks .
The new technology will continually act to help fight the signs of aging .
Innovative Firming : Matrixyl ™ has proven to show renewed elastin and collagen fibers .
Skin ’ s surface is remodeled , becoming more resilient and toned .
Continuous Moisturization & Skin Protection : Provides 24 hour moisturization to soothe dry skin .
Broad spectrum UVA / UVB SPF18 protects the skin and prevents skin damage by UV exposure .
THE RESULTS Skin ’ s elasticity is improved .
Visible reduction of wrinkles and skin looks smoother , firmer skin .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Every day , smooth gently onto face and neck until thoroughly absorbed .
Use in the AM , alone or under makeup .
Matrixyl ™ is a registered trademark owned by Sederma .
Sepilift ™ is a registered trademark owned by Seppic .
Now experience the advanced actions against the signs of skin aging .
New Anti - Wrinkle & Firming Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF18 Sunscreen , with effective encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A , Matrixyl ™ and Sepilift ™ will increase cell turnover , reduce wrinkles , firm the skin , and provide 24 hour moisturization .
FORMULA ESSENTIALS • • UV SPF18 sunscreen • • Non - Comedogenic • • Dermatologist tested for gentleness • • Non - greasy * This product is not manufactured or distrubted by L ’ Oreal ® , owner of the registered trademark Revitalift ® .
Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Manufactured in ISRAEL 37815 CD C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
