These are concentrated sodium chloride solutions .
Infuse slowly with constant observation of patient to avoid pulmonary edema .
DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL of 3 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP contains : Sodium Chloride USP 3 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 8 ( 4 . 5 – 7 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 1030 mOsmol / liter pH may be adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 513 Chloride 513 Each 100 mL of 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP contains : Sodium Chloride USP 5 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 8 ( 4 . 5 – 7 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 1710 mOsmol / liter pH may be adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 856 Chloride 856 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP are sterile , nonpyrogenic and contain no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
Addition of medication should be accomplished using complete aseptic technique .
The closure system has two ports ; the one for the administration set has a tamper evident plastic protector and the other is a medication addition site .
Refer to the Directions for Use of the container .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP provide electrolytes and are a source of water for hydration .
They are capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE These intravenous solutions are indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as sources of electrolytes and water for hydration .
3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP are of particular value in severe salt depletion when rapid electrolyte restoration is of paramount importance .
The low salt syndrome may occur in the presence of heart failure , renal impairment , during surgery , and postoperatively .
In these conditions , chloride loss frequently exceeds sodium loss .
These hypertonic sodium chloride solutions are also indicated for the following clinical conditions .
• Hyponatremia and hypochloremia due to electrolyte and fluid loss replaced with sodium - free fluids .
• Drastic dilution of extracellular body fluid following excessive water intake sometimes resulting from multiple enemas or perfusion of irrigating fluids into open venous sinuses during transurethral prostatic resections .
• Emergency treatment of severe salt depletion due to excess sweating , vomiting , diarrhea and other conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP are contraindicated in the presence of elevated , normal , or only slightly decreased plasma electrolyte concentrations , or when additives of sodium and chloride could be clinically detrimental .
WARNINGS Caution : These are concentrated hypertonic sodium chloride solutions .
Infuse very slowly with constant observation of the patient to avoid pulmonary edema .
The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there is sodium retention with edema .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
These solutions should be used with care in patients with hypervolemia , renal insufficiency , urinary tract obstruction , or impending or frank cardiac decompensation .
Extraordinary electrolyte losses such as may occur during protracted nasogastric suction , vomiting , diarrhea or gastrointestinal fistula drainage may necessitate additional electrolyte supplementation .
Additional essential electrolytes , minerals and vitamins should be supplied as needed .
Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin , or to other salt - retaining patients .
Care should be exercised in administering solutions containing sodium to patients with renal or cardiovascular insufficiency , with or without congestive heart failure , particularly if they are postoperative or elderly .
Excessive infusion of hypertonic sodium chloride solutions may supply more sodium and chloride than normally found in serum and can exceed normal tolerance , resulting in hypernatremia .
Infusion of excess chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate , resulting in an acidifying effect .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
Do not use plastic containers in series connection .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
If administration is not controlled by a pumping device , refrain from applying excessive pressure ( > 300 mmHg ) causing distortion to the container such as wringing or twisting .
Such handling could result in breakage of the container .
These solutions are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP .
It is also not known whether 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of sodium chloride injections in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of electrolyte solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation .
Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance .
Use of the largest peripheral vein and a well - placed small bore needle is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution ; therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential .
Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water , resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume .
If infused in large amounts , chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ' s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION These solutions are for intravenous use only .
Dosage is to be directed by a physician and is dependent upon age , weight , clinical condition of the patient and laboratory determinations .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy .
When a hypertonic solution is to be administered peripherally , it should be slowly infused through a small bore needle , placed well within the lumen of a large vein to minimize venous irritation .
Carefully avoid infiltration .
Maximum intravenous dosage should be 100 mL given over a period of one hour .
Before additional amounts are given , the serum electrolyte concentrations , including chloride and bicarbonate , should be determined to evaluate the need for more sodium chloride .
Intravenous administration of these solutions should not exceed 100 mL / hour or 400 mL / 24 hours .
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injections USP are supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in EXCEL ® Containers packaged 24 per case .
NDC REF Size 3 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0264 - 7805 - 10 L8051 500 mL 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP ( Canada DIN 01928007 ) 0264 - 7806 - 10 L8061 500 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Storage in automated dispensing machines : Brief exposure up to 2 weeks to ultraviolet or fluorescent light does not adversely affect the product labeling legibility ; prolonged exposure can cause fading of the red label .
Rotate stock frequently .
Rx only Revised : September 2016 EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions for Use of EXCEL ® Container Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connection .
To Open Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
NOTE : Before use , perform the following checks : • Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
• Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Preparation for Administration • Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container .
• Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
To Add Medication Before Solution Administration • Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 18 – 22 gauge needle , puncture medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Squeeze and tap ports while ports are upright and mix solution and medication thoroughly .
To Add Medication During Solution Administration • Close clamp on the set .
• Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 18 – 22 gauge needle of appropriate length ( at least 5 / 8 inch ) , puncture resealable medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Evacuate both ports by tapping and squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun of Canada , Ltd .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y36 - 002 - 928 LD - 237 - 3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL 3 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP REF L8051 NDC 0264 - 7805 - 10 500 mL EXCEL ® CONTAINER Hypertonic Y94 - 003 - 261 LD - 259 - 2 Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 3 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH may be adjusted with HCI NF pH : 5 . 8 ( 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) ; Calc .
Osmolarity : 1030 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 513 ; CI – 513 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
CAUTION : This is a concentrated sodium chloride solution .
Infuse slowly with constant observation of patient to avoid pulmonary edema .
Do not use in series connection .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
WARNINGS : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y94 - 003 - 260 LD - 133 - 3 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP REF L8061 NDC 0264 - 7806 - 10 DIN 01928007 HK 22618 500 mL EXCEL ® CONTAINER Hypertonic Y94 - 003 - 269 LD - 501 - 1 Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 5 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH may be adjusted with HCI NF pH : 5 . 8 ( 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) ; Calc .
Osmolarity : 1710 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 856 ; CI – 856 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
CAUTION : This is a concentrated sodium chloride solution .
Infuse slowly with constant observation of patient to avoid pulmonary edema .
Do not use in series connection .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
WARNINGS : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun of Canada , Ltd .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y94 - 003 - 262 LD - 132 - 3 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
