for Oral Solution Rx only DESCRIPTION : A white powder in a 4 liter jug for reconstitution , containing 236 g polyethylene glycol 3350 , 22 . 74 g sodium sulfate ( anhydrous ) , 6 . 74 g sodium bicarbonate , 5 . 86 g sodium chloride and 2 . 97 g potassium chloride .
When dissolved in water to a volume of 4 liters , PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is an isosmotic solution having a mildly salty taste .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is administered orally or via nasogastric tube as a gastrointestinal lavage .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution induces a diarrhea which rapidly cleanses the bowel , usually within four hours .
The osmotic activity of polyethylene glycol 3350 and the electrolyte concentration result in virtually no net absorption or excretion of ions or water .
Accordingly , large volumes may be administered without significant changes in fluid or electrolyte balance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is indicated for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy and barium enema X - ray examination .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to any of the components .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction , gastric retention , bowel perforation , toxic colitis , toxic megacolon or ileus .
WARNINGS : No additional ingredients , e . g . flavorings , should be added to the solution .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Patients with impaired gag reflex , unconscious , or semiconscious patients , and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution , especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube .
If a patient experiences severe bloating , distention or abdominal pain , administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate .
If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution .
Information for patients : PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution produces a watery stool which cleanses the bowel before examination .
Prepare the solution according to the instructions on the bottle .
It is more palatable if chilled .
For best results , no solid food should be consumed during the 3 to 4 hour period before drinking the solution , but in no case should solid foods be eaten within 2 hours of taking PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution .
Drink 240 mL ( 8 oz . )
every 10 minutes .
Rapid drinking of each portion is better than drinking small amounts continuously .
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution administration .
You may experience some abdominal bloating and distention before the bowels start to move .
If severe discomfort or distention occur , stop drinking temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals until these symptoms disappear .
Continue drinking until the watery stool is clear and free of solid matter .
This usually requires at least 3 liters and it is best to drink all of the solution .
Any unused portion should be discarded .
Drug Interactions : Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenic and reproductive studies with animals have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution .
It is also not known whether PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Nausea , abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions ( occurring in up to 50 % of patients ) to administration of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution .
Abdominal cramps , vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently .
These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly .
Isolated cases of urticaria , rhinorrhea , dermatitis and ( rarely ) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions .
Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG - ELS products in patients over 60 years of age .
These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory - Weiss Tear , esophageal perforation , asystole , sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema , and “ butterfly - like ” infiltrates on chest X - ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The recommended dose for adults is 4 liters of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution solution prior to gastrointestinal examination , as ingestion of this dose produces a satisfactory preparation in over 95 % of patients .
Ideally , the patient should fast for approximately three or four hours prior to PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution administration , but in no case should solid food be given for at least two hours before the solution is given .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is usually administered orally , but may be given via nasogastric tube to patients who are unwilling or unable to drink the solution .
Oral administration is at a rate of 240 mL ( 8 oz . )
every 10 minutes , until 4 liters are consumed or the rectal effluent is clear .
Rapid drinking of each portion is preferred to drinking small amounts continuously .
Nasogastric tube administration is at the rate of 20 - 30 mL per minute ( 1 . 2 - 1 . 8 liters per hour ) .
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution administration .
Various regimens have been used .
One method is to schedule patients for examination in midmorning or later , allowing the patients three hours for drinking and an additional one hour period for complete bowel evacuation .
Another method is to administer PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution on the evening before the examination , particularly if the patient is to have a barium enema .
Preparation of the solution : PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution solution is prepared by filling the container to the 4 liter mark with water and shaking vigorously several times to ensure that the ingredients are dissolved .
Dissolution is facilitated by using lukewarm water .
The solution is more palatable if chilled before administration .
The reconstituted solution should be refrigerated and used within 48 hours .
Discard any unused portion .
HOW SUPPLIED : In powdered form , for oral administration as a solution following reconstitution .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution is available in a disposable jug in powdered form containing : Disposable Jug : polyethylene glycol 3350 236 g , sodium sulfate ( anhydrous ) 22 . 74 g , sodium bicarbonate 6 . 74 g , sodium chloride 5 . 86 g , potassium chloride 2 . 97 g .
When made up to 4 liters volume with water , the solution contains PEG - 3350 17 . 6 mmol / L , sodium 125 mmol / L , sulfate 40 mmol / L , chloride 35 mmol / L , bicarbonate 20 mmol / L and potassium 10 mmol / L ( NDC 54868 - 6138 - 0 ) .
STORAGE : Store in sealed container at 59 ° - 86 ° F .
When reconstituted , keep solution refrigerated .
Use within 48 hours .
Discard unused portion .
PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution NDC 54868 - 6138 - 0 Distributed by Affordable Pharmaceuticals LLC , Braintree , MA 02185 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc . , Tulsa , OK 74146 07 / 09 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PEG - 3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
