Rx Only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ampicillin and other antibacterial drugs , ampicillin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Ampicillin trihydrate is a semisynthetic penicillin derived from the basic penicillin nucleus , 6 - aminopenicillanic acid .
Ampicillin is designated chemically as ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ ( R ) - 2 - Amino - 2 - phenylacetamido ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C16H19N3O4S · 3 H2O Molecular weight : 403 . 5 Ampicillin capsules , USP for oral administration provide ampicillin trihydrate equivalent to 250 mg and 500 mg ampicillin .
Inactive ingredients : black iron oxide , gelatin , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , shellac , propylene glycol , ammonium hydroxide , and potassium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ampicillin is bactericidal at low concentrations and is clinically effective not only against the gram - positive organisms usually susceptible to penicillin G but also against a variety of gram - negative organisms .
It is stable in the presence of gastric acid and is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
It diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids ; however , penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid and brain occurs only with meningeal inflammation .
Ampicillin is excreted largely unchanged in the urine ; its excretion can be delayed by concurrent administration of probenecid which inhibits the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin .
In blood serum , ampicillin is the least bound of all the penicillins ; an average of about 20 percent of the drug is bound to plasma proteins as compared to 60 to 90 percent of the other penicillins .
The administration of 500 mg dose of ampicillin capsules results in an average peak blood serum level of approximately 3 . 0 mcg / mL .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Ampicillin is similar to penicillin in its bactericidal action against susceptible bacteria during the stage of active multiplication .
It acts through the inhibition of cell wall biosynthesis that leads to the death of the bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance Resistance to ampicillin is mediated primarily through enzymes called beta - lactamases that cleave the beta - lactam ring of ampicillin , rendering it inactive .
Antimicrobial Activity Ampicillin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Gram - positive Bacteria Enterococcus spp .
Staphylococcus spp .
( non - penicillinase - producing ) Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes Viridans group streptococci Gram - negative Bacteria Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae ( non - penicillinase - producing ) Neisseria gonorrhoeae Neisseria meningitidis Proteus mirabilis Salmonella spp .
Shigella spp .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to 0 . 12 mcg / mL for ampicillin .
However the efficacy of ampicillin in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled trials .
Gram - positive Bacteria Bacillus anthracis Corynebacterium xerosis Anaerobic Bacteria Clostridium spp .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ampicillin capsules , ampicillin for oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs , ampicillin capsules and ampicillin for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting of modifying antimicrobial therapy , in the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Ampicillin capsules and ampicillin for oral suspension are indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms listed below : Infections of the genitourinary tract including gonorrhea : E . coli , P . mirabilis , enterococci , Shigella , S . typhosa and other Salmonella , and nonpenicillinase producing N . gonorrhoeae .
Infections of the respiratory tract : Nonpenicillinase - producing H . influenzae and staphylococci , and streptococci including streptococcus pneumoniae .
Infections of the gastrointestinal tract : Shigella , S . typhosa and other Salmonella , E . coli , P . mirabilis , and enterococci .
Meningitis : N . Meningitides .
Bacteriology studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to ampicillin should be performed .
Therapy may be instituted prior to the results of susceptibility testing .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of a previous hypersensitivity reaction to any of the penicillins is a contraindication .
Ampicillin is also contraindicated in infections caused by penicillinase - producing organisms .
WARNINGS SERIOUS AND OCCASIONALLY FATAL HYPERSENSITIVITY ( ANAPHYLACTIC ) REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS ON PENICILLIN THERAPY .
ALTHOUGH ANAPHYLAXIS IS MORE FREQUENT FOLLOWING PARENTERAL THERAPY , IT HAS OCCURRED IN PATIENTS ON ORAL PENICILLINS .
THESE REACTIONS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR IN INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF SENSITIVITY TO MULTIPLE ALLERGENS .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE REACTIONS WHEN TREATED WITH CEPHALOSPORINS .
BEFORE THERAPY WITH ANY PENICILLIN , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS , CEPHALOSPORINS OR OTHER ALLERGENS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS , APPROPRIATE THERAPY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE .
OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including ampicillin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis ” .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing ampicillin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Prolonged use of antibiotics may promote the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Should superinfection occur , appropriate measures should be taken .
Patients with gonorrhea who also have syphilis should be given additional appropriate parenteral penicillin treatment .
Treatment with ampicillin does not preclude the need for surgical procedures , particularly in staphylococcal infections .
Information for the Patient • 1 .
The patient should inform the physician of any history of sensitivity to allergens , including previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins and cephalosporins ( see WARNINGS ) .
• 2 .
The patient should discontinue ampicillin and contact the physician immediately if any side effect occurs ( see WARNINGS ) .
• 3 .
Ampicillin should be taken with a full glass ( 8 oz ) of water , one - half hour before or two hours after meals .
• 4 .
Diabetic patients should consult with the physician before changing diet or dosage of diabetes medication ( see PRECAUTIONS – Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions ) .
• 5 .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including ampicillin should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When ampicillin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by ampicillin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Laboratory Tests In prolonged therapy , and particularly with high dosage regimens , periodic evaluation of the renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic systems is recommended .
In streptococcal infections , therapy , must be sufficient to eliminate the organism ( 10 days minimum ) ; otherwise the sequelae of streptococcal disease may occur .
Cultures should be taken following completion of treatment to determine whether streptococci have been eradicated .
Cases of gonococcal infection with a suspected lesion of syphilis should have darkfield examinations ruling out syphilis before receiving ampicillin .
Patients who do not have suspected lesions of syphilis and are treated with ampicillin should have a follow - up serologic test for syphilis each month for four months to detect syphilis that may have been masked from treatment for gonorrhea .
Drug Interactions When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with ampicillin .
Allopurinol : Increased possibility of skin rash , particularly in hyperuricemic patients may occur .
Bacteriostatic Antibiotics : Chloramphenicol , erythromycins , sulfonamides , or tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal effect of penicillins .
This has been demonstrated in vitro ; however , the clinical significance of this interaction is not well - documented .
Oral Contraceptives : May be less effective and increased breakthrough bleeding may occur .
Probenecid : May decrease renal tubular secretion of ampicillin resulting in increased blood levels and / or ampicillin toxicity .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions After treatment with ampicillin , a false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with copper sulfate tests ( Benedict ’ s solution , Fehling ’ s solution , or Clinitest ® tablets ) but not with enzyme based tests such as Clinistix ® and Tes - Tape ® .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies in animals have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to penicillin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , penicillin should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Oral ampicillin - class antibiotics are poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pigs showed that intravenous administration of ampicillin slightly decreased the uterine tone and frequency of contractions , but moderately increased the height and duration of contractions .
However , it is not known whether use of these drugs in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
Nursing Mothers Ampicillin - class antibiotics are excreted in milk .
Ampicillin used by nursing mothers may lead to sensitization of infants ; therefore , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue ampicillin , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Penicillins are excreted primarily unchanged by the kidney ; therefore , the incompletely developed renal function in neonates and young infants will delay the excretion of penicillin .
Administration to neonates and young infants should be limited to the lowest dosage compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS As with other penicillins , it may be expected that untoward reactions will be essentially limited to sensitivity phenomena .
They are more likely to occur in individuals who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to penicillin and in those with a history of allergy , asthma , hay fever , or urticaria .
The following adverse reactions have been reported as associated with the use of ampicillin : Gastrointestinal : glossitis , stomatitis , nausea , vomiting , enterocolitis , pseudomembranous colitis , and diarrhea .
These reactions are usually associated with oral dosage forms of the drugs .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : An erythematous , mildly pruritic , maculopapular skin rash has been reported fairly frequently .
The rash , which usually does not develop within the first week of therapy , may cover the entire body including the soles , palms , and oral mucosa .
The eruption usually disappears in three to seven days .
Other hypersensitivity reactions that have been reported are : skin rash , pruritus , urticaria , erythema multiforme , and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis .
Anaphylaxis is the most serious reaction experienced and has usually been associated with the parenteral dosage form of the drug .
NOTE : Urticaria , other skin rashes , and serum sickness - like reactions may be controlled by antihistamines , and , if necessary , systemic corticosteroids .
Whenever such reactions occur , ampicillin should be discontinued unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening , and amenable only to ampicillin therapy .
Serious anaphylactic reactions require emergency measures ( see WARNINGS ) .
Liver : Moderate elevation in serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( SGOT ) has been noted , but the significance of this finding is unknown .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems : Anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
Other adverse reactions that have been reported with the use of ampicillin are laryngeal stridor and high fever .
An occasional patient may complain of sore mouth or tongue as with any oral penicillin preparation .
OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures as required .
In patients with renal function impairment , ampicillin - class antibiotics can be removed by hemodialysis but not by peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children weighing over 20 kg : For genitourinary or gastrointestinal tract infections other than gonorrhea in men and women , the usual dose is 500 mg qid in equally spaced doses ; severe or chronic infections may require larger doses .
For the treatment of gonorrhea in both men and women , a single oral dose of 3 . 5 grams of ampicillin administered simultaneously with 1 gram of probenecid is recommended .
Physicians are cautioned to use no less than the above recommended dosage for the treatment of gonorrhea .
Follow - up cultures should be obtained from the original site ( s ) of infection 7 to 14 days after therapy .
In women , it is also desirable to obtain culture test - of - cure from both the endocervical and anal canals .
Prolonged intensive therapy is needed for complications such as prostatitis and epididymitis .
For respiratory tract infections , the usual dose is 250 mg qid in equally spaced doses .
Pediatric patients weighing 20 kg or less : For genitourinary or gastrointestinal tract infections , the usual dose is 100 mg / kg / day total , qid in equally divided and spaced doses .
For respiratory tract infections , the usual dose is 50 mg / kg / day total , in equally divided and spaced doses three to four times daily .
Doses for children should not exceed doses recommended for adults .
All Patients , Irrespective of Age and Weight : Larger doses may be required for severe or chronic infections .
Although ampicillin is resistant to degradation by gastric acid , it should be administered at least one - half hour before or two hours after meals for maximal absorption .
Except for the single dose regimen for gonorrhea referred to above , therapy should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
In infections caused by hemolytic strains of streptococci , a minimum of 10 days ’ treatment is recommended to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis ( see PRECAUTIONS – Laboratory Tests ) .
In the treatment of chronic urinary or gastrointestinal infections , frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy and may be necessary for several months afterwards .
Stubborn infections may require treatment for several weeks .
Smaller doses than those indicated above should not be used .
HOW SUPPLIED Ampicillin capsules , USP : Each capsule , for oral administration , contains ampicillin trihydrate equivalent to 250 mg or 500 mg ampicillin , and are supplied as : 250 mg : white , opaque , hard gelatin capsules , imprinted in black ink GG 850 / GG 850 .
NDC 0781 - 2144 - 01 in bottles of 100 NDC 0781 - 2144 - 05 in bottles of 500 500 mg : white , opaque , hard gelatin capsules , imprinted in black ink GG 851 / GG 851 .
NDC 0781 - 2145 - 01 in bottles of 100 NDC 0781 - 2145 - 05 in bottles of 500 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container .
Clinitest ® is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
Clinistix ® is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
Tes - Tape ® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly Company .
Revised : August 2020 46275512 Manufactured by Sandoz GmbH for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 250 mg Label NDC 0781 - 2144 - 01 Ampicillin Capsules , USP 250 mg Rx only 100 Capsules SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 mg Label NDC 0781 - 2145 - 01 Ampicillin Capsules , USP 500 mg Rx only 100 Capsules SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
