Rx Only DESCRIPTION Propranolol Hydrochloride , USP is a synthetic beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent chemically described as ( + ) - 1 - ( isopropylamino ) - 3 - ( 1 - naphthyloxy ) - 2 - propanol hydrochloride .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C16H21NO2 • HCl Propranolol Hydrochloride , USP is a stable , white , crystalline solid which is readily soluble in water and ethanol .
Its molecular weight is 295 . 80 .
Propranolol Hydrochloride Injection , USP is available as a sterile injectable solution for intravenous administration .
Each mL contains 1 mg of Propranolol Hydrochloride , USP in Water for Injection , USP .
The pH is adjusted with anhydrous Citric Acid , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY General Propranolol is a nonselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent possessing no other autonomic nervous system activity .
It specifically competes with beta - adrenergic receptor stimulating agents for available receptor sites .
When access to beta ‑ receptor sites is blocked by propranolol , chronotropic , inotropic , and vasodilator responses to beta - adrenergic stimulation are decreased proportionately .
At doses greater than required for beta blockade , propranolol also exerts a quinidine - like or anesthetic - like membrane action , which affects the cardiac action potential .
The significance of the membrane action in the treatment of arrhythmias is uncertain .
Mechanism of Action The effects of propranolol are due to selective blockade of beta - adrenergic receptors , leaving alpha - adrenergic responses intact .
There are two well - characterized subtypes of beta receptors ( beta1 and beta2 ) ; propranolol interacts with both subtypes equally .
Beta1 - adrenergic receptors are found primarily in the heart .
Blockade of cardiac beta1 - adrenergic receptors leads to a decrease in the activity of both normal and ectopic pacemaker cells and a decrease in A - V nodal conduction velocity .
All of these actions can contribute to antiarrhythmic activity and control of ventricular rate during arrhythmias .
Blockade of cardiac beta1 ‑ adrenergic receptors also decreases the myocardial force of contraction and may provoke cardiac decompensation in patients with minimal cardiac reserve .
Beta2 - adrenergic receptors are found predominantly in smooth muscle – vascular , bronchial , gastrointestinal and genitourinary .
Blockade of these receptors results in constriction .
Clinically , propranolol may exacerbate respiratory symptoms in patients with obstructive pulmonary diseases such as asthma and emphysema ( see CONTRAINDICATIONSand WARNINGS ) .
Propranolol ’ s beta blocking effects are attributable to its S ( - ) enantiomer .
Pharmacokinetics and Drug Metabolism Distribution Propranolol has a distribution half - life ( T ½ alpha ) of 5 - 10 minutes and a volume of distribution of about 4 to 5 L / kg .
Approximately 90 % of circulating propranolol is bound to plasma proteins .
The binding is enantiomer - selective .
The S - isomer is preferentially bound to alpha1 glycoprotein and the R - isomer is preferentially bound to albumin .
Metabolism and Elimination The elimination half - life ( T ½ beta ) is between 2 and 5 . 5 hours .
Propranolol is extensively metabolized with most metabolites appearing in the urine .
The major metabolites include propranolol glucuronide , naphthyloxylactic acid , and glucuronic acid and sulfate conjugates of 4 - hydroxy propranolol .
Following single - dose intravenous administration , side - chain oxidative products account for approximately 40 % of the metabolites , direct conjugation products account for approximately 45 - 50 % of metabolites , and ring oxidative products account for approximately 10 - 15 % of metabolites .
Of these , only the primary ring oxidative product ( 4 - hydroxypropranolol ) possesses beta - adrenergic receptor blocking activity .
In vitro studies have indicated that the aromatic hydroxylation of propranolol is catalyzed mainly by polymorphic CYP2D6 .
Side ‑ chain oxidation is mediated mainly by CYP1A2 and to some extent by CYP2D6 .
4 - hydroxy propranolol is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 .
Pharmacodynamics As propranolol concentration increases , so does its beta - blocking effect , as evidenced by a reduction in exercise - induced tachycardia ( n   =   6 normal volunteers ) .
Special Populations Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of propranolol have not been investigated in patients under 18 years of age .
Propranolol injection is not recommended for treatment of cardiac arrhythmias in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Elevated propranolol plasma concentrations , a longer mean elimination half - life ( 254 vs . 152 minutes ) , and decreased systemic clearance ( 8 vs . 13 mL / kg / min ) have been observed in elderly subjects when compared to young subjects .
However , the apparent volume of distribution seems to be similar in elderly and young subjects .
These findings suggest that dose adjustment of propranolol injection may be required for elderly patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gender Intravenously administered propranolol was evaluated in 5 women and 6 men .
When adjusted for weight , there were no gender - related differences in elimination half - life , volume of distribution , protein binding , or systemic clearance .
Obesity In a study of intravenously administered propranolol , obese subjects had a higher AUC ( 161 versus 109 hr · mcg / L ) and lower total clearance than did non - obese subjects .
Propranolol plasma protein binding was similar in both groups .
Renal Insufficiency The pharmacokinetics of propranolol and its metabolites were evaluated in 15 subjects with varying degrees of renal function after propranolol administration via the intravenous and oral routes .
When compared with normal subjects , an increase in fecal excretion of propranolol conjugates was observed in patients with increased renal impairment .
Propranolol was also evaluated in 5 patients with chronic renal failure , 6 patients on regular dialysis , and 5 healthy subjects , following a single oral dose of 40 mg of propranolol .
The peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) of propranolol in the chronic renal failure group were 2 - to 3 - fold higher ( 161 ng / mL ) than those observed in the dialysis patients ( 47 ng / ‌ mL ) and in the healthy subjects ( 26 ng / mL ) .
Propranolol plasma clearance was also reduced in the patients with chronic renal failure .
Chronic renal failure has been associated with a decrease in drug metabolism via downregulation of hepatic cytochrome P - 450 activity .
Hepatic Insufficiency Propranolol is extensively metabolized by the liver .
In a study conducted in 6 normal subjects and 20 patients with chronic liver disease , including hepatic cirrhosis , 40 mg of R - propranolol was administered intravenously .
Compared to normal subjects , patients with chronic liver disease had decreased clearance of propranolol , increased volume of distribution , decreased protein - binding , and considerable variation in half - life .
Caution should be exercised when propranolol is used in this population .
Consideration should be given to lowering the dose of intravenous propranolol in patients with hepatic insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Thyroid Dysfunction No pharmacokinetic changes were observed in hyperthyroid or hypothyroid patients when compared to their corresponding euthyroid state .
Dosage adjustment does not seem necessary in either patient population based on pharmacokinetic findings .
Drug Interactions Interactions with Substrates , Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P - 450 Enzymes Because propranolol ’ s metabolism involves multiple pathways in the cytochrome P - 450 system ( CYP2D6 , 1A2 , 2C19 ) , administration of propranolol with drugs that are metabolized by , or affect the activity ( induction or inhibition ) of one or more of these pathways may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Blood levels of propranolol may be increased by administration of propranolol with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2D6 , such as amiodarone , cimetidine , delavirdine , fluoxetine , paroxetine , quinidine , and ritonavir .
No interactions were observed with either ranitidine or lansoprazole .
Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Blood levels of propranolol may be increased by administration of propranolol with substrates or inhibitors of CYP1A2 , such as imipramine , cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , fluvoxamine , isoniazid , ritonavir , theophylline , zileuton , zolmitriptan , and rizatriptan .
Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2C19 Blood levels of propranolol may be increased by administration of propranolol with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2C19 , such as fluconazole , cimetidine , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , teniposide , and tolbutamide .
No interaction was observed with omeprazole .
Inducers of Hepatic Drug Metabolism Blood levels of propranolol may be decreased by administration of propranolol with inducers such as rifampin and ethanol .
Cigarette smoking also induces hepatic metabolism and has been shown to increase up to 100 % the clearance of propranolol , resulting in decreased plasma concentrations .
Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics The AUC of propafenone is increased by more than 200 % with co - administration of propranolol .
The metabolism of propranolol is reduced by co - administration of quinidine , leading to a 2 - to 3 - fold increased blood concentrations and greater beta - blockade .
The metabolism of lidocaine is inhibited by co - administration of propranolol , resulting in a 25 % increase in lidocaine concentrations .
Calcium Channel Blockers The mean Cmax and AUC of propranolol are increased respectively , by 50 % and 30 % by co - administration of nisoldipine and by 80 % and 47 % , by co - administration of nicardipine .
The mean values of Cmax and AUC of nifedipine are increased by 64 % and 79 % , respectively , by co - administration of propranolol .
Propranolol does not affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil and norverapamil .
Verapamil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of propranolol .
Non - Cardiovascular Drugs Migraine Drugs Administration of zolmitriptan or rizatriptan with propranolol resulted in increased concentrations of zolmitriptan ( AUC increased by 56 % and Cmax by 37 % ) or rizatriptan ( the AUC and Cmax were increased by 67 % and 75 % , respectively ) .
Theophylline Co - administration of theophylline with propranolol decreases theophylline clearance by 33 % to 52 % .
Benzodiazepines Propranolol can inhibit the metabolism of diazepam , resulting in increased concentrations of diazepam and its metabolites .
Diazepam does not alter the pharmacokinetics of propranolol .
The pharmacokinetics of oxazepam , triazolam , lorazepam , and alprazolam are not affected by co - administration of propranolol .
Neuroleptic Drugs Co - administration of propranolol at doses greater than or equal to 160 mg / day resulted in increased thioridazine plasma concentrations ranging from 50 % to 370 % and increased thioridazine metabolites concentrations ranging from 33 % to 210 % .
Co - administration of chlorpromazine with propranolol resulted in increased plasma levels of both drugs ( 70 % increase in propranolol concentrations ) .
Anti - Ulcer Drugs Co - administration of propranolol with cimetidine , a non - specific CYP450 inhibitor , increased propranolol concentrations by about 40 % .
Co ‑ administration with aluminum hydroxide gel ( 1200 mg ) resulted in a 50 % decrease in propranolol concentrations .
Co - administration of metoclopramide with propranolol did not have a significant effect on propranolol ’ s pharmacokinetics .
Lipid Lowering Drugs Co - administration of cholesteramine or colestipol with propranolol resulted in up to 50 % decrease in propranolol concentrations .
Co - administration of propranolol with lovastatin or pravastatin decreased 20 % to 25 % the AUC of both , but did not alter their pharmacodynamics .
Propranolol did not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin .
Warfarin Concomitant administration of propranolol and warfarin has been shown to increase warfarin bioavailability and increase prothrombin time .
CLINICAL STUDIES In a series of 225 patients with supraventricular ( n   =   145 ) , ventricular ( n   =   69 ) , or both ( n   =   11 ) arrythmias resistant to digitalis , intravenous propranolol hydrochloride was administered in single doses , averaging 1 to 5 mg .
Approximately one - quarter of the patients with supraventricular arrhythmias ( generally those with sinus or atrial tachycardia ) reverted to normal sinus rhythm .
About one - half had symptoms ameliorated either by a decrease in ventricular rate or an attenuation of frequency or severity of paroxysmal attacks .
Approximately one - half of patients with ventricular arrhythmias ( generally those with frequent PVCs ) reverted to normal sinus rhythm or responded with a reduction in ventricular rate .
Similar findings were seen in a series of 25 Bantu patients with atrial fibrillation ( n   =   16 ) , sinus tachycardia ( n   =   5 ) , and multifocal ventricular extrasystoles ( n   =   9 ) .
In another series , 7 of 8 patients with digitalis - related tachyarrhythmia had ventricular rate decreases after intravenous propranolol .
Similarly limited clinical experience has shown that intravenous propranolol will slow the ventricular rate in patients with Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome or with tachycardia associated with thyrotoxicosis .
Onset of activity is usually within five minutes .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cardiac Arrhythmias Intravenous administration is usually reserved for life - threatening arrhythmias or those occurring under anesthesia .
1 .
Supraventricular arrhythmias Intravenous propranolol is indicated for the short - term treatment of supraventricular tachycardia , including Wolff ‑ Parkinson ‑ White syndrome and thyrotoxicosis , to decrease ventricular rate .
Use in patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation should be reserved for arrythmias unresponsive to standard therapy or when more prolonged control is required .
Reversion to normal sinus rhythm has occasionally been observed , predominantly in patients with sinus or atrial tachycardia .
2 .
Ventricular tachycardias With the exception of those induced by catecholamines or digitalis , propranolol is not the drug of first choice .
In critical situations when cardioversion techniques or other drugs are not indicated or are not effective , propranolol may be considered .
If , after consideration of the risks involved , propranolol is used , it should be given intravenously in low dosage and very slowly , as the failing heart requires some sympathetic drive for maintenance of myocardial tone ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Some patients may respond with complete reversion to normal sinus rhythm , but reduction in ventricular rate is more likely .
Ventricular arrhythmias do not respond to propranolol as predictably as do the supraventricular arrhythmias .
Intravenous propranolol is indicated for the treatment of persistent premature ventricular extrasystoles that impair the well ‑ being of the patient and do not respond to conventional measures .
3 .
Tachyarrhythmias of digitalis intoxication Intravenous propranolol is indicated to control ventricular rate in life - threatening digitalis - induced arrhythmias .
Severe bradycardia may occur ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
4 .
Resistant tachyarrhythmias due to excessive catecholamine action during anesthesia Intravenous propranolol is indicated to abolish tachyarrhythmias due to excessive catecholamine action during anesthesia when other measures fail .
These arrhythmias may arise because of release of endogenous catecholamines or administration of catecholamines .
All general inhalation anesthetics produce some degree of myocardial depression .
Therefore , when propranolol is used to treat arrhythmias during anesthesia , it should be used with extreme caution , usually with constant monitoring of the ECG and central venous pressure ( see WARNINGS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Propranolol is contraindicated in 1 ) cardiogenic shock ; 2 ) sinus bradycardia and greater than first - degree block ; 3 ) bronchial asthma ; and 4 ) in patients with known hypersensitivity to propranolol hydrochloride .
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be a vital component supporting circulatory function in patients with congestive heart failure , and its inhibition by beta blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
Although beta ‑ blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure , some have been shown to be highly beneficial when used with close follow - up in patients with a history of failure who are well compensated and are receiving additional therapies , including diuretics as needed .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents do not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle .
Nonallergic Bronchospasm ( e . g . , Chronic Bronchitis , Emphysema ) In general , patients with bronchospastic lung disease should not receive beta blockers .
Propranolol should be administered with caution in this setting since it may block bronchodilation produced by endogenous and exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta - receptors .
Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial .
It should be noted , however , that the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli in propranolol - treated patients might augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Propranolol is a competitive inhibitor of beta - receptor agonists , and its effects can be reversed by administration of such agents , e . g . , dobutamine or isoproterenol .
However , such patients may be subject to protracted severe hypotension .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Beta - adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of certain premonitory signs and symptoms ( pulse rate and pressure changes ) of acute hypoglycemia , especially in labile insulin - dependent diabetics .
In these patients , it may be more difficult to adjust the dosage of insulin .
Propranolol therapy , particularly in infants and children , diabetic or not , has been associated with hypoglycemia especially during fasting , as in preparation for surgery .
Hypoglycemia has been reported after prolonged physical exertion and in patients with renal insufficiency .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs of hyperthyroidism .
Therefore , abrupt withdrawal of propranolol may be followed by an exacerbation of symptoms of hyperthyroidism , including thyroid storm .
Propranolol may change thyroid - function tests , increasing T4 and reverse T3 , and decreasing T3 .
Wolff - Parkinson - White Syndrome Beta - adrenergic blockade in patients with Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome and tachycardia has been associated with severe bradycardia requiring treatment with a pacemaker .
In one case this resulted after an initial 5 mg dose of intravenous propranolol .
PRECAUTIONS General Propranolol should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function .
Propranolol is not indicated for the treatment of hypertensive emergencies .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade can cause reduction of intraocular pressure .
Patients should be told that propranolol might interfere with the glaucoma screening test .
Withdrawal may lead to a return of elevated intraocular pressure .
Risk of anaphylactic reaction .
While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Angina Pectoris There have been reports of exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction , following abrupt discontinuance of propranolol therapy .
Therefore , when discontinuance of propranolol is planned , the dosage should be gradually reduced over at least a few weeks , and the patient should be cautioned against interruption or cessation of therapy without a physician ’ s advice .
If propranolol therapy is interrupted and exacerbation of angina occurs , it is usually advisable to reinstitute propranolol therapy and take other measures appropriate for the management of angina pectoris .
Since coronary artery disease may be unrecognized , it may be prudent to follow the above advice in patients considered at risk of having occult atherosclerotic heart disease who are given propranolol for other indications .
Clinical Laboratory Tests In patients with hypertension , use of propranolol has been associated with elevated levels of serum potassium , serum transaminases and alkaline phosphatase .
In severe heart failure , the use of propranolol has been associated with increases in Blood Urea Nitrogen .
Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when propranolol is administered with drugs that have an effect on CYP2D6 , 1A2 , or 2C19 metabolic pathways .
Co - administration of such drugs with propranolol may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions and changes in its efficacy and / or toxicity ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions ) .
Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics Propafenone has negative inotropic and beta - blocking properties that can be additive to those of propranolol .
Quinidine increases the concentration of propranolol and produces a greater degree of clinical beta - blockade and may cause postural hypotension .
Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects and has been associated with severe bradycardia , asystole and heart failure when administered with propranolol .
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with propranolol .
The clearance of lidocaine is reduced when administered with propranolol .
Lidocaine toxicity has been reported following co - administration with propranolol .
Caution should be exercised when administering propranolol with drugs that slow A - V nodal conduction , e . g . , digitalis , lidocaine and calcium channel blockers .
Calcium Channel Blockers Caution should be exercised when patients receiving a beta - blocker are administered a calcium - channel - blocking drug with negative inotropic and / or chronotropic effects .
Both agents may depress myocardial contractility or atrioventricular conduction .
There have been reports of significant bradycardia , heart failure , and cardiovascular collapse with concurrent use of verapamil and beta ‑ blockers .
Co - administration of propranolol and diltiazem in patients with cardiac disease has been associated with bradycardia , hypotension , high degree heart block , and heart failure .
ACE Inhibitors When combined with beta - blockers , ACE inhibitors can cause hypotension , particularly in the setting of acute myocardial infarction .
ACE inhibitors have been reported to increase bronchial hyperreactivity when administered with propranolol .
The antihypertensive effects of clonidine may be antagonized by beta - blockers .
Propranolol should be administered cautiously to patients withdrawing from clonidine .
Alpha - blockers Prazosin has been associated with prolongation of first dose hypotension in the presence of beta - blockers .
Postural hypotension has been reported in patients taking both beta - blockers and terazosin or doxazosin .
Reserpine Patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine , with propranolol should be closely observed for excess reduction of resting sympathetic nervous activity , which may result in hypotension , marked bradycardia , vertigo , syncopal attacks , or orthostatic hypotension .
Administration of reserpine with propranolol may also potentiate depression .
Inotropic Agents Patients on long - term therapy with propranolol may experience uncontrolled hypertension if administered epinephrine as a consequence of unopposed alpha - receptor stimulation .
Epinephrine is therefore not indicated in the treatment of propranolol overdose ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Isoproterenol and Dobutamine Propranolol is a competitive inhibitor of beta - receptor agonists , and its effects can be reversed by administration of such agents , e . g . , dobutamine or isoproterenol .
Also , propranolol may reduce sensitivity to dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients undergoing evaluation for myocardial ischemia .
Non - Cardiovascular Drugs Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) have been reported to blunt the antihypertensive effect of beta - adrenoreceptor blocking agents .
Administration of indomethacin with propranolol may reduce the efficacy of propranolol in reducing blood pressure and heart rate .
Antidepressants The hypotensive effects of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may be exacerbated when administered with beta - blockers by interfering with the beta blocking activity of propranolol .
Anesthetic Agents Methoxyflurane and trichloroethylene may depress myocardial contractility when administered with propranolol .
Warfarin Administration of propranolol with warfarin increases the concentration of warfarin .
Therefore , the prothrombin time should be monitored .
Neuroleptic Drugs Hypotension and cardiac arrest have been reported with the concomitant use of propranolol and haloperidol .
Thyroxine Thyroxine may result in a lower than expected T3 concentration when used concomitantly with propranolol .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In dietary administration studies in which mice and rats were treated with propranolol hydrochloride for up to 18 months at doses of up to 150 mg / kg / day , there was no evidence of drug - related tumorigenesis .
On a body surface area basis , this dose in the mouse and rat is , respectively , about equal to and about twice the maximum recommended human oral daily dose ( MRHD ) of 640 mg propranolol hydrochloride .
In a study in which both male and female rats were exposed to propranolol hydrochloride in their diets at concentrations of up to 0 . 05 % ( about 50 mg / kg body weight and less than the MRHD ) , from 60 days prior to mating and throughout pregnancy and lactation for two generations , there were no effects on fertility .
Based on differing results from Ames Tests performed by different laboratories , there is equivocal evidence for a genotoxic effect of propranolol hydrochloride in bacteria ( S . typhimurium strain TA 1538 ) .
Pregnancy In a series of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies , propranolol hydrochloride was given to rats by gavage or in the diet throughout pregnancy and lactation .
At doses of 150 mg / kg / day , but not at doses of 80 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) , treatment was associated with embryotoxicity ( reduced litter size and increased resorption rates ) as well as neonatal toxicity ( deaths ) .
Propranolol hydrochloride also was administered ( in the feed ) to rabbits ( throughout pregnancy and lactation ) at doses as high as 150 mg / kg / day ( about 5 times the maximum recommended human oral daily dose ) .
No evidence of embryo or neonatal toxicity was noted .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Intrauterine growth retardation has been reported for neonates whose mothers received propranolol hydrochloride during pregnancy .
Neonates whose mothers received propranolol hydrochloride at parturition have exhibited bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression .
Adequate facilities for monitoring such infants at birth should be available .
Propranolol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Propranolol is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when propranolol is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of propranolol in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of intravenous propranolol did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Elderly subjects have decreased clearance and a longer mean elimination half ‑ life .
These findings suggest that dose adjustment of propranolol injection may be required for elderly patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations , Geriatric ) .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of the decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Hepatic Insufficiency Propranolol is extensively metabolized by the liver .
Compared to normal subjects , patients with chronic liver disease have decreased clearance of propranolol , increased volume of distribution , decreased protein - binding and considerable variation in half life .
Consideration should be given to lowering the dose of intravenously administered propranolol in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a series of 225 patients , there were 6 deaths ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Cardiovascular events ( hypotension , congestive heart failure , bradycardia , and heart block ) were the most common .
The only other event reported by more than one patient was nausea .
Other adverse events for intravenous propranolol , reported during post - marketing surveillance include cardiac arrest , dyspnea , and cutaneous ulcers .
The following adverse events have been reported with use of formulations of sustained - or immediate - release oral propranolol and may be expected with intravenous propranolol .
Cardiovascular Bradycardia ; congestive heart failure ; intensification of AV block ; hypotension ; paresthesia of hands ; thrombocytopenic purpura ; arterial insufficiency , usually of the Raynaud type .
Central Nervous System Light - headedness ; mental depression manifested by insomnia , lassitude , weakness , fatigue ; reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; visual disturbances ; hallucinations ; vivid dreams ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
For immediate ‑ release formulations , fatigue , lethargy , and vivid dreams appear dose - related .
Gastrointestinal Nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , abdominal cramping , diarrhea , constipation , mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis .
Allergic Pharyngitis and agranulocytosis ; erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat ; laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Respiratory Bronchospasm .
Hematologic Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura .
Autoimmune In extremely rare instances , systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
Miscellaneous Alopecia , LE - like reactions , psoriaform rashes , dry eyes , male impotence , and Peyronie ’ s disease have been reported rarely .
Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin , serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta - blocker ( practolol ) have not been associated with propranolol .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Propranolol is not significantly dialyzable .
In the event of overdose or exaggerated response , the following measures should be employed : Hypotension and bradycardia have been reported following propranolol overdose and should be treated appropriately .
Glucagon can exert potent inotropic and chronotropic effects and may be particularly useful for the treatment of hypotension or depressed myocardial function after a propranolol overdose .
Glucagon should be administered as 50 - 150 mcg / kg intravenously followed by continuous drip of 1 - 5 mg / hour for positive chronotropic effect .
Isoproterenol , dopamine , or phosphodiesterase inhibitors may also be useful .
Epinephrine , however , may provoke uncontrolled hypertension .
Bradycardia can be treated with atropine or isoproterenol .
Serious bradycardia may require temporary cardiac pacing .
The electrocardiogram , pulse , blood pressure , neurobehavioral status and intake and output balance must be monitored .
Isoproterenol and aminophylline may be useful for bronchospasm .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The usual dose is 1 to 3 mg administered under careful monitoring , such as electrocardiography and central venous pressure .
The rate of administration should not exceed 1 mg ( 1 mL ) per minute to diminish the possibility of lowering blood pressure and causing cardiac standstill .
Sufficient time should be allowed for the drug to reach the site of action even when a slow circulation is present .
If necessary , a second dose may be given after two minutes .
Thereafter , additional drug should not be given in less than four hours .
Additional propranolol hydrochloride should not be given when the desired alteration in rate or rhythm is achieved .
Transfer to oral therapy as soon as possible .
HOW SUPPLIED Each mL contains 1 mg of Propranolol Hydrochloride , USP in Water for Injection , USP .
The pH is adjusted with anhydrous Citric Acid , USP .
Supplied as : 1 mL vials in boxes of 10 ( NDC 0143 - 9872 - 10 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing or excessive heat .
Manufactured by : HIKMA FARMACÊUTICA ( PORTUGAL ) , S . A . Estrada do Rio da Mó , 8 , 8 A e 8 B – Fervença – 2705 - 906 Terrugem SNT , PORTUGAL Distributed by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 Revised : May 2022 PIN166 - WES / 7 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9872 - 01 Rx only Propranolol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 1 mg / mL For IV use ONLY 1 mL Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9872 - 10 Rx only Propranolol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 1 mg / mL For Intravenous use ONLY 10 x 1 mL Single Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
