Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 12 / 2018 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 12 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Megestrol acetate oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of anorexia , cachexia , or an unexplained significant weight loss in patients with a diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) .
Limitations of Use Therapy with megestrol acetate oral suspension for weight loss should only be insti ‑ tuted after treatable causes of weight loss are sought and addressed .
These treatable causes include possible malignancies , systemic infections , gastrointestinal disorders affecting absorption , endocrine disease , renal disease or psychiatric diseases .
Megestrol acetate oral suspension is not intended for prophylactic use to avoid weight loss .
Megestrol acetate oral suspension is a progestin indicated for the treatment of anorexia , cachexia , or an unexplained significant weight loss in patients with a diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Obtain a negative pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment ( 2 . 1 ) • • The recommended adult initial dosage of megestrol acetate oral suspension is 625 mg / day ( 5 mL / day or one teaspoon daily ) ( 2 . 2 ) .
• • Shake container well before using ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Testing Prior to Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension Administration • • Obtain a negative pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with megestrol acetate oral suspension [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosing and Administration • • The recommended adult initial dosage of megestrol acetate oral suspension is 625 mg / day ( 5 mL / day or one teaspoon daily ) .
• • Shake the container well before using .
• • This strength ( 125 mg / mL ) is not substitutable with other strengths ( e . g . , 40 mg / mL ) .
Refer to the prescribing information of the 40 mg / mL product for dosage recommendations for the 40 mg / mL strength .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Megestrol acetate oral suspension is milky white , lemon flavored , and contains 125 mg per mL .
Oral suspension containing 125 mg of megestrol acetate per mL ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • History of hypersensitivity to megestrol acetate or any component of the formulation .
• • Pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • History of hypersensitivity to megestrol acetate or any component of the formulation ( 4 ) .
• • Pregnancy ( 4 ) ( 8 . 1 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Use with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Fetal Effects : May cause fetal harm .
Females of reproductive potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Clinical cases of overt Cushing ' s Syndrome have been reported in association with the chronic use of megestrol acetate .
In addition , clinical cases of adrenal insufficiency have been observed in patients receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate in the stressed and non - stressed state ( 5 . 3 ) .
• • New onset and exacerbation of pre - existing diabetes have been reported ( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 General • • Effects on HIV viral replication have not been determined .
• • Use with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease .
5 . 2 Fetal Toxicity Based on animal studies , megestrol acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Pregnant rats treated with low doses of megestrol acetate resulted in a reduction in fetal weight and number of live births , and feminization of male fetuses .
There are no available human data to assess for any drug associated risks of miscarriage , birth defects , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking ( receiving ) this drug , advise the patient of the poten ‑ tial hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Obtain a pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with megestrol acetate oral suspension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception while taking megestrol acetate oral suspension [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Adrenal Insufficiency The glucocorticoid activity of megestrol acetate oral suspension has not been fully evaluated .
Clinical cases of overt Cushing ' s Syndrome have been reported in association with the chronic use of megestrol acetate .
In addition , clinical cases of adrenal insufficiency have been observed in patients receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy in the stressed and non - stressed state .
Furthermore , adrenocorticotropin ( ACTH ) stimulation testing has revealed the frequent occurrence of asymptomatic pituitary - adrenal suppression in patients treated with chronic megestrol acetate therapy .
Therefore , the possibility of adrenal insufficiency should be considered in any patient receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate oral suspension therapy who presents with symptoms and / or signs suggestive of hypoadrenalism ( e . g . , hypotension , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or weakness ) in either the stressed or non - stressed state .
Laboratory evaluation for adrenal insufficiency and consideration of replacement or stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid are strongly recommended in such patients .
Failure to recognize inhibition of the hypothalamic - pituitary adrenal axis may result in death .
Finally , in patients who are receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate oral suspension therapy , consideration should be given to the use of empiric therapy with stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid during stress or serious intercurrent illness ( e . g . , surgery , infection ) .
5 . 4 Diabetes Clinical cases of new onset diabetes mellitus and exacerbation of pre - existing diabetes mellitus have been reported in association with the chronic use of megestrol acetate .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events occurring in > 5 % of all patients receiving 800 mg / 20 mL of megestrol acetate oral suspension in the two clinical efficacy trials were nausea , diarrhea , impotence , rash , flatulence , hypertension , and asthenia ( 6 . 2 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TWi Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 518 - 2989 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Serious and Otherwise Important Adverse Reactions The following serious reactions and otherwise important adverse drug reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • • Thromboembolic Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Adrenal Insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Diabetes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 6 . 2 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of megestrol acetate oral suspension , 125 mg / mL was based on three studies of megestrol acetate oral suspension ( 40 mg / mL ) .
The adverse reaction profile of these 3 studies are presented below .
Adverse events which occurred in at least 5 % of patients in any arm of the two clinical efficacy trials and the open trial for megestrol acetate oral suspension are listed below by treatment group .
All patients listed had at least one post baseline visit during the 12 study weeks .
Table 1 : Adverse EventsPercentage of Patients Reporting Adverse Events Trial 1 ( N = 236 ) Trial 2 ( N = 87 ) Open Label Trial Placebo Placebo Megestrol Acetate mg / day 0 100 400 800 0 800 1200 No .
of Patients N = 34 N = 68 N = 69 N = 65 N = 38 N = 49 N = 176 Diarrhea 15 13 8 15 8 6 10 Impotence 3 4 6 14 0 4 7 Rash 9 9 4 12 3 2 6 Flatulence 9 0 1 9 3 10 6 Hypertension 0 0 0 8 0 0 4 Asthenia 3 2 3 6 8 4 5 Insomnia 0 3 4 6 0 0 1 Nausea 9 4 0 5 3 4 5 Anemia 6 3 3 5 0 0 0 Fever 3 6 4 5 3 2 1 Libido Decreased 3 4 0 5 0 2 1 Dyspepsia 0 0 3 3 5 4 2 Hyperglycemia 3 0 6 3 0 0 3 Headache 6 10 1 3 3 0 3 Pain 6 0 0 2 5 6 4 Vomiting 9 3 0 2 3 6 4 Pneumonia 6 2 0 2 3 0 1 Urinary Frequency 0 0 1 2 5 2 1 Adverse events which occurred in 1 % to 3 % of all patients enrolled in the two clinical efficacy trials with at least one follow - up visit during the first 12 weeks of the study are listed below by body system .
Adverse events occurring less than 1 % are not included .
There were no significant differences between incidence of these events in patients treated with megestrol acetate and patients treated with placebo .
Body as a Whole - abdominal pain , chest pain , infection , moniliasis and sarcoma Cardiovascular System - cardiomyopathy and palpitation Digestive System - constipation , dry mouth , hepatomegaly , increased salivation and oral moniliasis Hemic and Lymphatic System - leukopenia Metabolic and Nutritional - LDH increased , edema and peripheral edema Nervous System - paresthesia , confusion , convulsion , depression , neuropathy , hypesthesia and abnormal thinking Respiratory System - dyspnea , cough , pharyngitis and lung disorder Skin and Appendages - alopecia , herpes , pruritus , vesiculobullous rash , sweating and skin disorder Special Senses - amblyopia Urogenital System - albuminuria , urinary incontinence , urinary tract infection and gynecomastia .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Postmarketing reports associated with megestrol acetate oral suspension include thromboembolic phenomena including thrombophlebitis , deep vein thrombosis , and pulmonary embolism ; and glucose intolerance .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Due to a significant decrease in indinavir exposure , administration of a higher dose of indinavir should be considered when coadministering with megestrol acetate ( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) .
7 . 1 Indinavir Due to the significant decrease in the exposure of indinavir by megestrol acetate , administration of a higher dose of indinavir should be considered when coadministering with megestrol acetate [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Zidovudine and Rifabutin No dosage adjustment for zidovudine and rifabutin is needed when megestrol acetate is coadministered with these drugs [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Women infected with HIV - 1 should be instructed not to breastfeed due to the potential for HIV transmission ( 8 . 2 ) .
• • Geriatrics : In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other therapy ( 8 . 5 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data , megestrol acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and is contraindicated during pregnancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
There are no available human data to assess for any drug - associated risks of miscarriage , birth defects , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are no adequate animal developmental toxicity data at clinically relevant doses .
Pregnant rats treated with low doses of megestrol acetate resulted in a reduction in fetal weight and number of live births , and feminization of male fetuses at doses below maximum recommended clinical dosing based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
Advise a pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Reproduction studies were performed in pregnant rats at oral doses ranging from 0 . 05 to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day , which are below the maximum recommended clinical dose based on body surface area .
Reduction in fetal weight and number of live births were observed at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 5 times lower than the maximum clinical dose ) when dams were dosed on days 12 through 18 of pregnancy .
Feminization of male fetuses also occurred when dams were dosed on days 13 through 20 of pregnancy at 3 mg / kg / day , approximately 22 times below the maximum clinical dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that HIV - 1 infected mothers not breastfeed their infants to avoid risking postnatal transmission of HIV - 1 .
Megestrol acetate is present in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of megesterol acetate on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for HIV transmission and adverse effects on a breastfed infant , instruct mothers not to breastfeed if they are taking megestrol acetate oral suspension .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy testing Pregnancy testing is recommended prior to treatment with megestrol acetate oral suspension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Megestrol acetate oral suspension may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with megestrol acetate oral suspension .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of megestrol acetate oral suspension in the treatment of anorexia , cachexia , or an unexplained significant weight loss in patients with AIDS did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Megestrol acetate is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Use in Women Megestrol acetate has had limited use in HIV infected women .
All 10 women in the clinical trials reported breakthrough bleeding .
Megestrol acetate oral suspension is a progesterone derivative , which may induce vaginal bleeding in women .
10 OVERDOSAGE No serious unexpected side effects have resulted from studies involving megestrol acetate oral suspension administered in dosages as high as 1200 mg / day .
In post - marketing experience , limited reports of overdose have been received .
Signs and symptoms reported in the context of overdose included diarrhea , nausea , abdominal pain , shortness of breath , cough , unsteady gait , listlessness , and chest pain .
There is no specific antidote for overdose with megestrol acetate oral suspension .
In case of overdose , appropriate supportive measures should be taken .
Megestrol acetate has not been tested for dialyzability ; however , due to its low solubility it is postulated that dialysis would not be an effective means of treating overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Megestrol acetate oral suspension contains megestrol acetate , a synthetic derivative of the naturally occurring steroid hormone , progesterone .
Megestrol acetate is a white , crystalline solid chemically designated as 17 - Hydroxy - 6 - methyl pregna - 4 , 6 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione acetate .
Solubility at 37 ° C in water is 2 mcg per mL , solubility in plasma is 24 mcg per mL .
Its molecular weight is 384 . 52 .
The chemical formula is C24H32O4 and the structural formula is represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Megestrol acetate oral suspension is an oral suspension containing 125 mg of megestrol acetate per mL .
Megestrol acetate oral suspension contains the following inactive ingredients : alcohol ( max 0 . 07 % v / v from flavor ) , citric acid monohydrate , hypromellose , lemon flavor , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate dihydrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , and sucrose .
The USP dissolution test is pending .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Several investigators have reported on the appetite enhancing property of megestrol acetate and its possible use in cachexia .
The precise mechanism by which megestrol acetate produces effects in anorexia and cachexia is unknown at the present time .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Distribution Mean plasma concentrations of megestrol acetate after administration of 625 mg ( 125 mg / mL ) of megestrol acetate oral suspension are equivalent under fed conditions to 800 mg ( 40 mg / mL ) of megestrol acetate oral suspension in healthy volunteers .
In order to characterize the dose proportionality of megestrol acetate oral suspension , pharmacokinetic studies across a range of doses were conducted when administered under fasting and fed conditions .
Pharmacokinetics of megestrol acetate was linear in the dosing range between 150 mg and 675 mg after megestrol acetate oral suspension administration regardless of meal condition .
The mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and the mean area under the concentration time - curve ( AUC ) after a high fat meal were increased by 48 % and 36 % , respectively , compared to those under the fasting condition after 625 mg megestrol acetate oral suspension administration .
This food effect is less than that seen for the original formulation , megestrol acetate 800 mg / 20 mL , where a high fat meal significantly increased AUC and Cmax of megestrol acetate to 2 - fold and 7 - fold , respectively , compared to those under the fasting condition .
There was no difference in safety following administration in the fed state , therefore megestrol acetate oral suspension could be taken without regard to meals .
Plasma steady state pharmacokinetics of megestrol acetate was evaluated in 10 adult , cachectic male adult patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) and an involuntary weight loss greater than 10 % of baseline who received single oral doses of 800 mg / day of megestrol acetate oral suspension for 21 days .
The Mean ( ± 1 SD ) Cmax of megestrol acetate was 753 ( ± 539 ) ng / mL .
The mean AUC was 10476 ( ± 7788 ) ng x hr / mL .
Median Tmax value was five hours .
In another study , 24 asymptomatic HIV seropositive male adult subjects were dosed once daily with 750 mg of megestrol acetate oral suspension for 14 days .
Mean Cmax and AUC values were 490 ( ± 238 ) ng / mL and 6779 ( ± 3048 ) hr x ng / mL , respectively .
The median Tmax value was three hours .
The mean Cmin value was 202 ( ± 101 ) ng / mL .
The mean % of fluctuation value was 107 ( ± 40 ) .
Metabolism and Excretion The major route of drug elimination in humans is urine .
When radio - labeled megestrol acetate was administered to humans in doses of 4 to 90 mg , the urinary excretion within 10 days ranged from 56 . 5 % to 78 . 4 % ( mean 66 . 4 % ) and fecal excretion ranged from 7 . 7 % to 30 . 3 % ( mean 19 . 8 % ) .
The total recovered radioactivity varied between 83 . 1 % and 94 . 7 % ( mean 86 . 2 % ) .
Megestrol acetate metabolites which were identified in urine constituted 5 % to 8 % of the dose administered .
Respiratory excretion as labeled carbon dioxide and fat storage may have accounted for at least part of the radioactivity not found in urine and feces .
The mean elimination half - life of megestrol ranged from 20 to 50 hours in healthy subjects .
Specific Populations The pharmacokinetics of megestrol acetate has not been studied in specific population , for example , pediatric , renal impairment , and hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions The effects of indinavir , zidovudine or rifabutin on the pharmacokinetics of megestrol acetate were not studied .
Zidovudine Pharmacokinetic studies show that there are no significant alterations in exposure of zidovudine when megestrol acetate is administered with this drug .
Rifabutin Pharmacokinetic studies show that there are no significant alterations in exposure of rifabutin when megestrol acetate is administered with this drug .
Indinavir A pharmacokinetic study in healthy male subjects demonstrated that coadministration of megestrol acetate ( 675 mg for 14 days ) and indinavir ( single dose 800 mg ) results in a significant decrease in the pharmacokinetic parameters ( ~ 32 % for Cmax and ~ 21 % for AUC ) of indinavir .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Data on carcinogenesis were obtained from studies conducted in dogs , monkeys and rats treated with megestrol acetate at doses below the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area .
No males were used in the dog and mon ‑ key studies .
In female beagles , megestrol acetate ( 0 . 01 , 0 . 1 or 0 . 25 mg / kg / day ) administered for up to 7 years induced both benign and malignant tumors of the breast at doses greater than or equal to 0 . 01 mg / kg / day , approximately 75 to 187 times below the maximum clinical dose .
In female monkeys , no tumors were found following 10 years of treatment with 0 . 01 , 0 . 1 or 0 . 5 mg / kg / day megestrol acetate , up to 65 times below the maximum clinical dose .
Pituitary tumors were observed in female rats treated for 2 years with 3 . 9 or 10 mg / kg / day of megestrol acetate , approximately 6 to 17 times below the maximum clinical dose .
The relationship of these tumors in rats and dogs to humans is unknown but should be considered in assess ‑ ing the risk - to - benefit ratio when prescribing megestrol acetate oral suspension and in surveillance of patients on therapy .
Megestrol acetate induced unscheduled DNA synthesis in primary cultures of human hepatocytes , but not in rat hepatocytes .
Megestrol administered to mice increased the frequency of sister chromatid exchange and chromosomal aberrations in bone marrow cells after single intraperitonial doses of 16 . 25 and 32 . 50 mg / kg .
Impaired reproductive capability was observed in male offspring born to female rats treated during gestation days 13 through 20 with oral doses greater than or equal to 3 mg / kg / day megestrol , approximately 22 times below the maximum clinical dose .
Female dogs treated daily with megestrol oral capsules for 7 years experienced a complete cessation of estrus activity and ovulation at doses of 0 . 1 , or 0 . 25 mg / kg / day , approximately 187 and 75 times below the maximum clinical dose , respectively .
13 . 2 Animal Pharmacology and / or Toxicology Long - term treatment with megestrol acetate oral suspension may increase the risk of respiratory infections .
A trend toward increased frequency of respiratory infections , decreased lymphocyte counts and increased neutrophil counts was observed in a two - year chronic toxicity / carcinogenicity study of megestrol acetate conducted in rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of megestrol acetate oral suspension , 125 mg / mL , was based on two trials of megestrol acetate oral suspension ( 40 mg / mL ) .
These two trials are described below .
Trial 1 One was a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study comparing megestrol acetate ( MA ) at doses of 100 mg , 400 mg , and 800 mg per day versus placebo in AIDS patients with anorexia / cachexia and significant weight loss .
Of the 270 patients entered on study , 195 met all inclusion / exclusion criteria , had at least two additional post baseline weight measurements over a 12 week period or had one post baseline weight measurement but dropped out for therapeutic failure .
The percent of patients gaining 2 . 3 kg or more at maximum weight gain in 12 study weeks was statistically significantly greater for the 800 mg ( 64 % ) and 400 mg ( 57 % ) MA - treated groups than for the placebo group ( 24 % ) .
Mean weight increased from baseline to last evaluation in 12 study weeks in the 800 mg MA - treated group by 3 . 5 kg , the 400 mg MA group by 1 . 9 kg , the 100 mg MA group by 0 . 9 kg and decreased in the placebo group by 0 . 7 kg .
Mean weight changes at 4 , 8 and 12 weeks for patients evaluable for efficacy in the two clinical trials is shown graphically .
Changes in body composition during the 12 study weeks as measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis showed increases in non - water body weight in the MA - treated groups .
In addition , edema developed or worsened in only 3 patients .
Greater percentages of MA - treated patients in the 800 mg group ( 89 % ) , the 400 mg group ( 68 % ) and the 100 mg group ( 72 % ) , than in the placebo group ( 50 % ) , showed an improvement in appetite at last evaluation during the 12 study weeks .
A statistically significant difference was observed between the 800 mg MA - treated group and the placebo group in the change in caloric intake from baseline to time of maximum weight change .
Patients were asked to assess weight change , appetite , appearance , and overall perception of well - being in a 9 question survey .
At maximum weight change only the 800 mg MA - treated group gave responses that were statistically significantly more favorable to all questions when compared to the placebo - treated group .
A dose response was noted in the survey with positive responses correlating with higher dose for all questions .
Trial 2 The second trial was a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study comparing megestrol acetate 800 mg / day versus placebo in AIDS patients with anorexia / cachexia and significant weight loss .
Of the 100 patients entered on study , 65 met all inclusion / exclusion criteria , had at least two additional post baseline weight measurements over a 12 week period or had one post baseline weight measurement but dropped out for therapeutic failure .
Patients in the 800 mg MA - treated group had a statistically significantly larger increase in mean maximum weight change than patients in the placebo group .
From baseline to study week 12 , mean weight increased by 5 . 1 kg in the MA - treated group and decreased 1 . 0 kg in the placebo group .
Changes in body composition as measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis showed increases in non - water weight in the MA - treated group ( see Clinical Studies table ) .
No edema was reported in the MA - treated group .
A greater percentage of MA - treated patients ( 67 % ) than placebo - treated patients ( 38 % ) showed an improvement in appetite at last evaluation during the 12 study weeks ; this difference was statistically significant .
There were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups in mean caloric change or in daily caloric intake at time to maximum weight change .
In the same 9 question survey referenced in the first trial , patients ' assessments of weight change , appetite , appearance , and overall perception of well - being showed increases in mean scores in MA - treated patients as compared to the placebo group .
In both trials , patients tolerated the drug well and no statistically significant differences were seen between the treatment groups with regard to laboratory abnormalities , new opportunistic infections , lymphocyte counts , T4 counts , T8 counts , or skin reactivity tests [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Table 2 : Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension Clinical Efficacy Trials Megestrol Acetate Oral Suspension Clinical Efficacy Trials Trial 1 Study Accrual Dates 11 / 88 to 12 / 90 Trial 2 Study Accrual Dates 5 / 89 to 4 / 91 Megestrol Acetate , mg / day 0 100 400 800 0 800 Entered Patients 38 82 75 75 48 52 Evaluable Patients 28 61 53 53 29 36 Mean Change in Weight ( kg ) Baseline to 12 Weeks 0 . 0 1 . 3 4 . 2 4 . 9 - 1 . 0 5 . 1 % Patients ≥ 2 . 3 kg Gain at Last Evaluation in 12 Weeks 21 44 57 64 28 47 Mean Changes in Body Composition * : Fat Body Mass ( kg ) 0 . 0 1 . 0 1 . 3 2 . 5 0 . 7 2 . 6 Lean Body Mass ( kg ) - 0 . 8 - 0 . 1 0 . 7 1 . 1 - 0 . 7 - 0 . 3 Water ( liters ) - 1 . 3 - 0 . 3 0 . 0 0 . 0 - 0 . 1 - 0 . 1 % Patients With Improved Appetite : At Time of Maximum Weight Change 50 72 72 93 48 69 At Last Evaluation in 12 Weeks 50 72 68 89 38 67 Mean Change in Daily Caloric Intake : Baseline to Time of Maximum Weight Change - 107 326 308 646 30 464 * Based on bioelectrical impedance analysis determinations at last evaluation in 12 weeks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Megestrol acetate oral suspension is a milky white , lemon - lime flavored oral suspension containing 125 mg per mL .
Available in bottles of 150 mL ( 5 fl oz ) NDC 71205 - 943 - 15 .
16 . 2 Storage Store megestrol acetate oral suspension between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) and dispense in a tight container .
Protect from heat .
16 . 3 Safe Handling Health Hazard Data There is no threshold limit value established by OSHA , NIOSH , or ACGIH .
Exposure or overdose at levels approaching recommended dosing levels could result in side effects described above [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Women at risk of pregnancy should avoid such exposure .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION The prescriber should inform the patient about the product differences to avoid overdosing or underdosing of megestrol acetate .
The recommended adult dosage of megestrol acetate oral suspension is one teaspoon ( 5 mL ) once a day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Patients using megestrol acetate oral suspension should receive the following instructions : • • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
• • Megestrol acetate oral suspension ( 625 mg / 5 mL ) does not contain the same amount of megestrol acetate as Megace oral suspension or any of the other megestrol acetate oral suspensions .
Megestrol acetate oral suspension contains 625 mg of megestrol acetate per 5 mL ( 125 mg / mL ) whereas Megace oral suspension and other megestrol acetate oral suspensions contain 800 mg per 20 mL ( 40 mg / mL ) .
• • Report any adverse reaction experiences while taking this medication .
• • Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] • • Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy .
• • Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with megestrol acetate oral suspension .
• • Lactation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] • • Advise mothers not to breastfeed because of the risk of passing the HIV - 1 virus to the baby in breast milk .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] TWi Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Paramus , NJ 07652 Manufactured by : TWi Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Taoyuan City , 32063 , Taiwan OS24979041 Revised : 01 / 19 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Megace ® is a registered trademark of Bristol - Myers Squibb Company licensed to Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mL Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
