Contains : Active Ingredient : 1 . 23 % w / w fluoride ion from 2 . 72 % sodium fluoride Contraindications : Contraindicated in individuals who are hypersensitive to fluoride .
Warnings & Precautions Keep out of reach of children .
For topical intraoral use only .
For Professionally applied in office fluoride treatment only .
Not for system treatment .
Do not swallow .
Do not use on patients with an allergy to fluoride .
60 Second Taste contains artificial color and flavor ; confirm that no known patient allergies exist .
Marshmallow and Chocolate Vanilla are dye free and contain no artificial colors .
Special care should be used when administering to children under 6 years of age so that gel is not swallowed .
Contact with abraided or sensitive oral tissue may produce discomfort .
If more than is ordinarily used for treatment is swallowed , administer calcium such as milk and contact your local Poison Control Center immediately .
Dosage and directions for Use Usual dosage is approximately 2 . 75 - 9 grams of 60 Second Taste per dual arch treatment ( depending on tray size ) .
Shake well before use • After prophylaxis remove excess fluid from teeth .
• Fill applicator tray 1 / 3 full with gel .
• Insert filled tray into patient ' s mouth and instruct to bite down gently for one minute , or up to four minutes .
• After treatment time is completed , remove tray and have patient expectorate residual gel .
• For maximum benefits for the prevention of caries , instruct patient not to rinse , eat or drink for 30 minutes .
Repeat treatment at least once or twice a year .
For patients with rampant or active caries , repeat treatment once or twice every six months .
If contents have become frozen , warm to room temperature and shake well before using .
Other Safety Information For product MSDS information please see company website at pascaldental . com or contact Pascal directly .
Pascal ' s 60 Second Taste is free of gluten , soy , milk , egg , peanut and tree nut products .
Rx only in USA .
For Professional Use Only .
60 Second Taste Gel Anticavity Topical APF * Preventive Treatment Gel * Acidulated Phosphate Fluoride Strawberry [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
