active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other skin protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approaching a souce of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use On damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above120ºF .
stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• apply to all skin exposed to the sun • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation • reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun protction Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures incluing : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 month of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , butyloctyl salicylate , triethanolamine , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Beiersdorf AG , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 70 .
Distributed by : ADUSA DISTRIBUTIOn , LLC SALISBURY , NC 28147 For porudct questions or concerns , contact us at 1 - 833 - 992 - 3872 Quality guaranteed or your money back DSP - TN - 21091 DSP - MO - 20087 Principal Display Panel CAREONE Compare to Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 70 * SPORT SUNSCREEN SPRAY SPF 70 UVA / UVB Protection BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 70 • Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) • Hypoallergenic NET WT .
11 OZ ( 312 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
