Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • adults and children 12 years of age and over : 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients organic agave syrup , natural citrus extract , natural flavor , purified water Questions ?
1 - 855 - 436 - 3921 SHAKE WELL before each use .
Patent Pending | Distributed by : Genexa Inc .
Atlanta , GA 30318 genexa . com Made in the USA with globally sourced ingredients Genexa MEDICINE MADE CLEAN Maximum Strength Cough & Chest Congestion Dextromethorphan HBr | Guaifenesin Cough Suppressant - Expectorant Made without FD & C red no . 40 , propylene glycol , sorbitol & other artificial fillers !
Blueberry Flavor 6 fl oz ( 177 mL ) Dosing cup included [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
