10 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 20 mg / 25 mg Rx only USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS , Pregnancy , Lisinopril , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
DESCRIPTION Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets combines an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , lisinopril , and a diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide .
Lisinopril , a synthetic peptide derivative , is an oral long - acting angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor .
It is chemically described as ( S ) - 1 - [ N2 - ( 1 - carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ) - L - lysyl ] - L - proline dihydrate .
Its empirical formula is C21H31N3O5 • 2H2O and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lisinopril is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 441 . 52 .
It is soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol , and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 73 , which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are available for oral use in three tablet combinations of lisinopril with hydrochlorothiazide : lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg , containing 10 mg lisinopril and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide , lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg , containing 20 mg lisinopril and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide and lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg / 25 mg , containing 20 mg lisinopril and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
Inactive ingredients are dibasic calcium phosphate , magnesium stearate , mannitol , pregelatinized starch and starch .
Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg also contains FD and C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake .
Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg also contains yellow iron oxide and lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg / 25 mg also contain red iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
These fixed - dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease , and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk .
( See WARNINGS . )
In considering use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non - Blacks .
( See WARNINGS , Head and Neck Angioedema . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 930 patients , including 100 patients treated for 50 weeks or more .
In clinical trials with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination drug have been observed .
Adverse experiences that have occurred have been limited to those that have been previously reported with lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide .
The most frequent clinical adverse experiences in controlled trials ( including open label extensions ) with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide were : dizziness ( 7 . 5 percent ) , headache ( 5 . 2 percent ) , cough ( 3 . 9 percent ) , fatigue ( 3 . 7 percent ) and orthostatic effects ( 3 . 2 percent ) , all of which were more common than in placebo - treated patients .
Generally , adverse experiences were mild and transient in nature ; but see WARNINGSregarding angioedema and excessive hypotension or syncope .
Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse effects was required in 4 . 4 percent of patients , principally because of dizziness , cough , fatigue and muscle cramps .
Adverse experiences occurring in greater than one percent of patients treated with lisinopril plus hydrochlorothiazide in controlled clinical trials are shown below .
Percent of Patients in Controlled Studies Lisinopril - Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 930 ) Incidence ( discontinuation ) Placebo ( n = 207 ) Incidence Dizziness 7 . 5 ( . 8 ) 1 . 9 Headache 5 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 19 Cough 3 . 9 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 0 Fatigue 3 . 7 ( 0 . 4 ) 1 . 0 Orthostatic Effects 3 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 1 . 0 Diarrhea 2 . 5 ( 0 . 2 ) 2 . 4 Nausea 2 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 2 . 4 Upper Respiratory Infection 2 . 2 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 . 0 Muscle Cramps 2 . 0 ( 0 . 4 ) 0 . 5 Asthenia 1 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) 1 . 0 Parasthesia 1 . 5 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 0 Hypotension 1 . 4 ( 0 . 3 ) 0 . 5 Vomiting 1 . 4 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 5 Dyspepsia 1 . 3 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 . 0 Rash 1 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 5 Impotence 1 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 0 . 0 Clinical adverse experiences occurring in 0 . 3 to 1 . 0 percent of patients in controlled trials included : Body as a Whole : Chest pain , abdominal pain , syncope , chest discomfort , fever , trauma , virus infection .
Cardiovascular : Palpitation , orthostatic hypotension .
Digestive : Gastrointestinal cramps , dry mouth , constipation , heartburn .
Musculoskeletal : Back pain , shoulder pain , knee pain , back strain , myalgia , foot pain .
Nervous / Psychiatric : Decreased libido , vertigo , depression , somnolence .
Respiratory : Common cold , nasal congestion , influenza , bronchitis , pharyngeal pain , dyspnea , pulmonary congestion , chronic sinusitis , allergic rhinitis , pharyngeal discomfort .
Skin : Flushing , pruritus , skin inflammation , diaphoresis .
Special Senses : Blurred vision , tinnitus , otalgia .
Urogenital : Urinary tract infection .
Angioedema : Angioedema has been reported in patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide , with an incidence higher in Black than in non - Black patients .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema may be fatal .
If angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx occurs , treatment with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
In rare cases , intestinal angioedema has been reported with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors including lisinopril .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hypotension : In clinical trials , adverse effects relating to hypotension occurred as follows : hypotension ( 1 . 4 ) , orthostatic hypotension ( 0 . 5 ) , other orthostatic effects ( 3 . 2 ) .
In addition syncope occurred in 0 . 8 percent of patients .
( See WARNINGS . )
Cough : See PRECAUTIONS , Cough .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Electrolytes : See PRECAUTIONS .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor reversible increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were observed in patients with essential hypertension treated with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide .
More marked increases have also been reported and were more likely to occur in patients with renal artery stenosis .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Serum Uric Acid , Glucose , Magnesium , Cholesterol , Triglycerides and Calcium : See PRECAUTIONS .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide .
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
Therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued and the patient observed closely .
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and / or gastric lavage , and correction of dehydration , electrolyte imbalance and hypotension by established procedures .
Lisinopril Following a single oral dose of 20 mg / kg , no lethality occurred in rats and death occurred in one of 20 mice receiving the same dose .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of normal saline solution .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis .
( See WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure . )
Hydrochlorothiazide Oral administration of a single oral dose of 10 mg / kg to mice and rats was not lethal .
The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 10 to 80 mg , while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 to 50 mg .
In clinical trials of lisinopril / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using lisinopril doses of 10 to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6 . 25 to 50 mg , the antihypertensive response rates generally increased with increasing dose of either component .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects , but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg .
Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response .
The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 - 3 weeks have elapsed .
Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide , but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen , may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg .
Dosage higher than lisinopril 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg should not be used .
Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components .
Use in Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient ' s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( serum creatinine approximately ( 3 mg / dL or 265 µmol / L ) .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP , 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg are blue , hexagonal tablets , with " LL " debossed on one side and " B01 " on other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 68180 - 518 - 01 – 100 ’ s bottle NDC 68180 - 518 - 02 – 500 ’ s bottle Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP , 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg are yellow , round tablets , with " LL " debossed on one side and " B02 " on other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 68180 - 519 - 01 – 100 ’ s bottle NDC 68180 - 519 - 02 – 500 ’ s bottle Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP , 20 mg / 25 mg are peach , round tablets , with " LL " debossed on one side and " B03 " on other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 68180 - 520 - 01 – 100 ’ s bottle NDC 68180 - 520 - 02 – 500 ’ s bottle Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from excessive light and humidity .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa 403 722 INDIA Or Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) 454 775 INDIA Revised : 15 th April 2011 ID # : 224651 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL LISINOPRIL AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE TABLETS USP Rx Only 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66336 - 0572 - XX Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ]
