Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Purpose Bacitracin Zinc 400 units First aid antibiotic Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( 3 . 5 mg of Neomycin base ) First aid antibiotic Polymyxin - B Sulfate 5000 units First aid antibiotic Use first aid to help prevent infection in • minor cuts • scrapes • burns Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Other information • store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) • do not use if tube seal under cap is broken , missing or if tube tip is cut prior to opening Inactive ingredients cocoa butter , cottonseed oil , olive oil , sodium pyruvate , vitamin E , white petrolatum Questions ?
call toll - free 1 - 877 - 507 - 6516 ( M - F 8 AM - 4 : 30 PM CST ) Proudly distributed by Circle K Stores Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 14 . 2 g Tube Carton 24 HOUR Infection Protection Help Prevent Infection in Minor Cuts , Scrapes and Burns CIRCLE K ® Compare to the Active Ingredients in Neosporin ® * Triple Antibiotic Ointment Bacitracin Zinc , Neomycin Sulfate , Polymyxin - B Sulfate First Aid Antibiotic Ointment NET WT 0 . 5 oz ( 14 . 2 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PDP / Package - NDC 66715 - 5505 CIRCLE K ™ triple antibiotic ointment Bacitracin Zinc , Neomycin Sulfate , Polymyxin - B Sulfate First Aid Antibiotic Ointment net wt 0 . 5 oz ( 14 . 2 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
