active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) .
decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of the eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minures before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protecton Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decreade this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including • limit time in the sun , especiually from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • childen under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , cetearyl alcohol , glycerin , dimethicone , Glycine soja ( soybean ) seed extract , bis - phenylpropyl dimethicone , arachidyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , benzyl alcohol , panthenol , ethylene / acrylic acid copolymer , behenyl alcohol , steareth - 2 , fragrance , steareth - 21 , polymethyl methacrylate , polyacrylamide , arachidyl glucoside , disodium EDTA , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , silica , chlorphenesin , BHT , titanium dioxide , mica Absolutely Beaming daily moisturizer sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Helps even out the appearanc of skin tone and texture With soy seed exract light diffusers DIST .
BY : MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 WWW . MEIJER . COM principal display panel meijer Absolutely Beaming daily moisturizer sunscreen Paraben free Broad spectrum SPF 15 Helps even out the appearance of skin tone and texture with soy seed extract light diffusers Compare to Aveeno Positively Radiant Daily Moisturizer SPF 15 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
