Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) 10 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GLYXAMBI is a combination of empagliflozin and linagliptin indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
GLYXAMBI is a combination of empagliflozin , a sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor and linagliptin , a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor , indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use • Not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
It may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in these patients ( 1 ) • Has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis ( 1 ) • Not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( 1 ) Limitations of Use GLYXAMBI is not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
It may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
GLYXAMBI has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at an increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using GLYXAMBI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
GLYXAMBI is not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
GLYXAMBI is likely to be ineffective in this setting based upon its mechanism of action .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Assess renal function before initiating and as clinically indicated ( 2 . 1 ) • The recommended dose of GLYXAMBI is 10 mg empagliflozin and 5 mg linagliptin once daily , taken in the morning , with or without food ( 2 . 2 ) • Dose may be increased to 25 mg empagliflozin and 5 mg linagliptin once daily ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Prior to Initiation of GLYXAMBI • Assess renal function before initiating GLYXAMBI and as clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating GLYXAMBI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of GLYXAMBI is 10 mg empagliflozin / 5 mg linagliptin once daily in the morning , taken with or without food .
GLYXAMBI may be increased to 25 mg empagliflozin / 5 mg linagliptin once daily for additional glycemic control .
2 . 3 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment GLYXAMBI is not recommended for use in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and contraindicated in patients on dialysis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS GLYXAMBI tablets are a combination of empagliflozin and linagliptin available as : • 10 mg empagliflozin / 5 mg linagliptin are pale yellow , arc triangular , flat - faced , bevel - edged , film - coated tablets .
One side is debossed with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol ; the other side is debossed with " 10 / 5 " .
• 25 mg empagliflozin / 5 mg linagliptin are pale pink , arc triangular , flat - faced , bevel - edged , film - coated tablets .
One side is debossed with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol ; the other side is debossed with " 25 / 5 " .
Tablets : • 10 mg empagliflozin / 5 mg linagliptin ( 3 ) • 25 mg empagliflozin / 5 mg linagliptin ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients on dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to empagliflozin , linagliptin , or any of the excipients in GLYXAMBI , reactions such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , exfoliative skin conditions , urticaria , or bronchial hyperreactivity have occurred [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• Patients on dialysis ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to empagliflozin , linagliptin , or any of the excipients in GLYXAMBI ( 4 , 5 . 8 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pancreatitis : There have been reports of acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis .
If pancreatitis is suspected , promptly discontinue GLYXAMBI .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ketoacidosis : Assess patients who present with signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis for ketoacidosis , regardless of blood glucose level .
If suspected , discontinue GLYXAMBI , evaluate and treat promptly .
Before initiating GLYXAMBI , consider risk factors for ketoacidosis .
Patients on GLYXAMBI may require monitoring and temporary discontinuation of therapy in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis .
( 5 . 2 ) • Volume Depletion : Before initiating GLYXAMBI , assess volume status and renal function in patients with impaired renal function , elderly patients , or patients on loop diuretics .
Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy .
( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis : Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly , if indicated ( 5 . 4 ) • Hypoglycemia : Consider lowering the dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when initiating GLYXAMBI ( 5 . 5 ) • Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) : Serious , life - threatening cases have occurred in both females and males .
Assess patients presenting with pain or tenderness , erythema , or swelling in the genital or perineal area , along with fever or malaise .
If suspected , institute prompt treatment .
( 5 . 6 ) • Genital Mycotic Infections : Monitor and treat as appropriate ( 5 . 7 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions ) have occurred with empagliflozin and linagliptin .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue GLYXAMBI , treat promptly , and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve .
( 5 . 8 ) • Arthralgia : Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP - 4 inhibitors .
Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate .
( 5 . 9 ) • Bullous Pemphigoid : There have been reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization .
Tell patients to report development of blisters or erosions .
If bullous pemphigoid is suspected , discontinue GLYXAMBI .
( 5 . 10 ) • Heart Failure : Heart failure has been observed with two other members of the DPP - 4 inhibitor class .
Consider risks and benefits of GLYXAMBI in patients who have known risk factors for heart failure .
Monitor for signs and symptoms .
( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Pancreatitis Acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis , has been reported in patients treated with linagliptin .
In the CARMELINA trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , acute pancreatitis was reported in 9 ( 0 . 3 % ) patients treated with linagliptin and in 5 ( 0 . 1 % ) patients treated with placebo .
Two patients treated with linagliptin in the CARMELINA trial had acute pancreatitis with a fatal outcome .
There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis , in patients treated with linagliptin .
Take careful notice of potential signs and symptoms of pancreatitis .
If pancreatitis is suspected , promptly discontinue GLYXAMBI and initiate appropriate management .
It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using GLYXAMBI .
5 . 2 Ketoacidosis Reports of ketoacidosis , a serious life - threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization have been identified in clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co - transporter - 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Fatal cases of ketoacidosis have been reported in patients taking empagliflozin .
In placebo - controlled trials of patients with type 1 diabetes , the risk of ketoacidosis was increased in patients who received SGLT2 inhibitors compared to patients who received placebo .
GLYXAMBI is not indicated for the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Patients treated with GLYXAMBI who present with signs and symptoms consistent with severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of presenting blood glucose levels , as ketoacidosis associated with GLYXAMBI may be present even if blood glucose levels are less than 250 mg / dL .
If ketoacidosis is suspected , GLYXAMBI should be discontinued , patient should be evaluated , and prompt treatment should be instituted .
Treatment of ketoacidosis may require insulin , fluid and carbohydrate replacement .
In many of the postmarketing reports , and particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes , the presence of ketoacidosis was not immediately recognized and institution of treatment was delayed because presenting blood glucose levels were below those typically expected for diabetic ketoacidosis ( often less than 250 mg / dL ) .
Signs and symptoms at presentation were consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis and included nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , generalized malaise , and shortness of breath .
In some but not all cases , factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as insulin dose reduction , acute febrile illness , reduced caloric intake , surgery , pancreatic disorders suggesting insulin deficiency ( e . g . , type 1 diabetes , history of pancreatitis or pancreatic surgery ) , and alcohol abuse were identified .
Before initiating GLYXAMBI , consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis including pancreatic insulin deficiency from any cause , caloric restriction , and alcohol abuse .
For patients who undergo scheduled surgery , consider temporarily discontinuing GLYXAMBI for at least 3 days prior to surgery [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
Consider monitoring for ketoacidosis and temporarily discontinuing GLYXAMBI in other clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis ( e . g . , prolonged fasting due to acute illness or post - surgery ) .
Ensure risk factors for ketoacidosis are resolved prior to restarting GLYXAMBI .
Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of ketoacidosis and instruct patients to discontinue GLYXAMBI and seek medical attention immediately if signs and symptoms occur .
5 . 3 Volume Depletion Empagliflozin can cause intravascular volume depletion which may sometimes manifest as symptomatic hypotension or acute transient changes in creatinine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
There have been post - marketing reports of acute kidney injury , some requiring hospitalization and dialysis , in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Patients with impaired renal function ( eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , elderly patients , or patients on loop diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension .
Before initiating GLYXAMBI in patients with one or more of these characteristics , assess volume status and renal function .
In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating GLYXAMBI .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion , and renal function after initiating therapy .
5 . 4 Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis There have been reports of serious urinary tract infections including urosepsis and pyelonephritis requiring hospitalization in patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors increases the risk for urinary tract infections .
Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly , if indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia .
The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when GLYXAMBI is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin .
Therefore , a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with GLYXAMBI .
5 . 6 Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) Reports of necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) , a rare but serious and life - threatening necrotizing infection requiring urgent surgical intervention , have been identified in patients with diabetes mellitus receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including empagliflozin .
Cases have been reported in both females and males .
Serious outcomes have included hospitalization , multiple surgeries , and death .
Patients treated with GLYXAMBI presenting with pain or tenderness , erythema , or swelling in the genital or perineal area , along with fever or malaise , should be assessed for necrotizing fasciitis .
If suspected , start treatment immediately with broad - spectrum antibiotics and , if necessary , surgical debridement .
Discontinue GLYXAMBI , closely monitor blood glucose levels , and provide appropriate alternative therapy for glycemic control .
5 . 7 Genital Mycotic Infections Empagliflozin increases the risk for genital mycotic infections [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with a history of chronic or recurrent genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections .
Monitor and treat as appropriate .
5 . 8 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with linagliptin .
These reactions include anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions .
Onset of these reactions occurred predominantly within the first 3 months after initiation of treatment with linagliptin , with some reports occurring after the first dose .
Angioedema has also been reported with other dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitors .
Use caution in a patient with a history of angioedema to another DPP - 4 inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with GLYXAMBI .
There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions , ( e . g . , angioedema ) in patients treated with empaglifozin .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue GLYXAMBI , treat promptly per standard of care , and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve .
GLYXAMBI is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to linagliptin , empagliflozin or any of the excipients in GLYXAMBI [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 9 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP - 4 inhibitors .
The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years .
Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication .
A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP - 4 inhibitor .
Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate .
5 . 10 Bullous Pemphigoid Bullous pemphigoid was reported in 7 ( 0 . 2 % ) patients treated with linagliptin compared to none in patients treated with placebo in the CARMELINA trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , and 3 of these patients were hospitalized due to bullous pemphigoid .
Postmarketing cases of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with DPP - 4 inhibitor use .
In reported cases , patients typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of the DPP - 4 inhibitor .
Tell patients to report development of blisters or erosions while receiving GLYXAMBI .
If bullous pemphigoid is suspected , GLYXAMBI should be discontinued and referral to a dermatologist should be considered for diagnosis and appropriate treatment .
5 . 11 Heart Failure An association between DPP - 4 inhibitor treatment and heart failure has been observed in cardiovascular outcomes trials for two other members of the DPP - 4 inhibitor class .
These trials evaluated patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
Consider the risks and benefits of GLYXAMBI prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure , such as those with a prior history of heart failure and a history of renal impairment , and observe these patients for signs and symptoms of heart failure during therapy .
Advise patients of the characteristic symptoms of heart failure and to immediately report such symptoms .
If heart failure develops , evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of GLYXAMBI .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Ketoacidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Volume Depletion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Genital Mycotic Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Severe and Disabling Arthralgia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Bullous Pemphigoid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Heart Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( 5 % or greater incidence ) were urinary tract infections , nasopharyngitis , and upper respiratory tract infections ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Empagliflozin and Linagliptin The safety of concomitantly administered empagliflozin ( daily dose 10 mg or 25 mg ) and linagliptin ( daily dose 5 mg ) has been evaluated in a total of 1363 patients with type 2 diabetes treated for up to 52 weeks in active - controlled clinical trials .
The most common adverse reactions with concomitant administration of empagliflozin and linagliptin based on a pooled analyses of these studies are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients Treated with Empagliflozin and LinagliptinAdverse Reactions GLYXAMBI ( % ) 10 mg / 5 mg n = 272 GLYXAMBI ( % ) 25 mg / 5 mg n = 273 aPredefined adverse event grouping , including , but not limited to , urinary tract infection , asymptomatic bacteriuria , cystitis Urinary tract infectiona 12 . 5 11 . 4 Nasopharyngitis 5 . 9 6 . 6 Upper respiratory tract infection 7 . 0 7 . 0 Empagliflozin Adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients receiving empagliflozin and more commonly than in patients given placebo included ( 10 mg , 25 mg , and placebo ) : urinary tract infection ( 9 . 3 % , 7 . 6 % , and 7 . 6 % ) , female genital mycotic infections ( 5 . 4 % , 6 . 4 % , and 1 . 5 % ) , upper respiratory tract infection ( 3 . 1 % , 4 . 0 % , and 3 . 8 % ) , increased urination ( 3 . 4 % , 3 . 2 % , and 1 . 0 % ) , dyslipidemia ( 3 . 9 % , 2 . 9 % , and 3 . 4 % ) , arthralgia ( 2 . 4 % , 2 . 3 % , and 2 . 2 % ) , male genital mycotic infections ( 3 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % , and 0 . 4 % ) , and nausea ( 2 . 3 % , 1 . 1 % , and 1 . 4 % ) .
Thirst ( including polydipsia ) was reported in 0 % , 1 . 7 % , and 1 . 5 % for placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Empagliflozin causes an osmotic diuresis , which may lead to intravascular volume contraction and adverse reactions related to volume depletion .
Events related to volume depletion ( hypotension and syncope ) were reported in 3 patients ( 1 . 1 % ) treated with GLYXAMBI plus metformin .
Linagliptin Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with linagliptin 5 mg and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo included : nasopharyngitis ( 7 . 0 % and 6 . 1 % ) , diarrhea ( 3 . 3 % and 3 . 0 % ) , and cough ( 2 . 1 % and 1 . 4 % ) .
Other adverse reactions reported in clinical studies with treatment of linagliptin monotherapy were hypersensitivity ( e . g . , urticaria , angioedema , localized skin exfoliation , or bronchial hyperreactivity ) and myalgia .
In the clinical trial program , pancreatitis was reported in 15 . 2 cases per 10 , 000 patient year exposure while being treated with linagliptin compared with 3 . 7 cases per 10 , 000 patient year exposure while being treated with comparator ( placebo and active comparator , sulfonylurea ) .
Three additional cases of pancreatitis were reported following the last administered dose of linagliptin .
Hypoglycemia Table 2 summarizes the reports of hypoglycemia with empagliflozin and linagliptin over a treatment period of 52 weeks .
Table 2 Incidence of Overalla and Severeb Hypoglycemic Adverse ReactionsAdd - on to Metformin ( 52 weeks ) GLYXAMBI ( % ) 10 mg / 5 mg ( n = 136 ) GLYXAMBI ( % ) 25 mg / 5 mg ( n = 137 ) aOverall hypoglycemic events : plasma or capillary glucose of less than or equal to 70 mg / dL or requiring assistance bSevere hypoglycemic events : requiring assistance regardless of blood glucose Overall 2 . 2 3 . 6 Severe 0 0 Laboratory Tests Empagliflozin and Linagliptin Changes in laboratory findings in patients treated with the combination of empagliflozin and linagliptin included increases in cholesterol and hematocrit compared to baseline .
Empagliflozin Increases in Serum Creatinine and Decreases in eGFR : Initiation of empagliflozin causes an increase in serum creatinine and decrease in eGFR within weeks of starting therapy and then these changes stabilize .
In a study of patients with moderate renal impairment , larger mean changes were observed .
In a long - term cardiovascular outcomes trial , the increase in serum creatinine and decrease in eGFR generally did not exceed 0 . 1 mg / dL and - 9 . 0 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , respectively , at Week 4 , and reversed after treatment discontinuation , suggesting acute hemodynamic changes may play a role in the renal function changes observed with empagliflozin .
Increase in Low - Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol ( LDL - C ) : Dose - related increases in low - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL - C ) were observed in patients treated with empagliflozin .
LDL - C increased by 2 . 3 % , 4 . 6 % , and 6 . 5 % in patients treated with placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
The range of mean baseline LDL - C levels was 90 . 3 to 90 . 6 mg / dL across treatment groups .
Increase in Hematocrit : Median hematocrit decreased by 1 . 3 % in placebo and increased by 2 . 8 % in empagliflozin 10 mg and 2 . 8 % in empagliflozin 25 mg treated patients .
At the end of treatment , 0 . 6 % , 2 . 7 % , and 3 . 5 % of patients with hematocrits initially within the reference range had values above the upper limit of the reference range with placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg , respectively .
Linagliptin Increase in Uric Acid : Changes in laboratory values that occurred more frequently in the linagliptin group and ≥ 1 % more than in the placebo group were increases in uric acid ( 1 . 3 % in the placebo group , 2 . 7 % in the linagliptin group ) .
Increase in Lipase : In a placebo - controlled clinical trial with linagliptin in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with micro - or macroalbuminuria , a mean increase of 30 % in lipase concentrations from baseline to 24 weeks was observed in the linagliptin arm compared to a mean decrease of 2 % in the placebo arm .
Lipase levels above 3 times upper limit of normal were seen in 8 . 2 % compared to 1 . 7 % patients in the linagliptin and placebo arms , respectively .
Increase in Amylase : In a cardiovascular safety study comparing linagliptin versus glimepiride in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , amylase levels above 3 times upper limit of normal were seen in 1 . 0 % compared to 0 . 5 % of patients in the linagliptin and glimepiride arms , respectively .
The clinical significance of elevations in lipase and amylase with linagliptin is unknown in the absence of other signs and symptoms of pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of linagliptin and empagliflozin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Acute pancreatitis , including fatal pancreatitis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] , constipation , mouth ulceration , stomatitis Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions Infections : Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) , urosepsis and pyelonephritis Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Ketoacidosis Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Rhabdomyolysis , severe and disabling arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders : Acute kidney injury Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Bullous pemphigoid , skin reactions ( e . g . , rash , urticaria ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 Clinically Relevant Interactions with GLYXAMBIDiuretics Clinical Impact Coadministration of empagliflozin with diuretics resulted in increased urine volume and frequency of voids , which might enhance the potential for volume depletion .
Intervention Before initiating GLYXAMBI , assess volume status and renal function .
In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating GLYXAMBI .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion , and renal function after initiating therapy .
Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Clinical Impact The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when GLYXAMBI is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin .
Intervention Coadministration of GLYXAMBI with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia .
Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of an SGLT2 inhibitor with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations .
Intervention Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during GLYXAMBI initiation and dosage changes .
Inducers of P - glycoprotein or CYP3A4 Enzymes Clinical Impact Rifampin decreased linagliptin exposure , suggesting that the efficacy of linagliptin may be reduced when administered in combination with a strong P - gp or CYP3A4 inducer .
Intervention Use of alternative treatments is strongly recommended when linagliptin is to be administered with a strong P - gp or CYP3A4 inducer .
Positive Urine Glucose Test Clinical Impact SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests .
Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors .
Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control .
Interference with 1 , 5 - anhydroglucitol ( 1 , 5 - AG ) Assay Clinical Impact Measurements of 1 , 5 - AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors .
Intervention Monitoring glycemic control with 1 , 5 - AG assay is not recommended .
Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control .
See full prescribing information for information on drug interactions and interference of GLYXAMBI with laboratory tests .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Advise females of the potential risk to a fetus especially during the second and third trimesters ( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Not recommended when breastfeeding ( 8 . 2 ) • Pediatric Patients : Safety and effectiveness of GLYXAMBI in pediatric patients have not been established ( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric Patients : Higher incidence of adverse reactions related to volume depletion and reduced renal function ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) • Renal Impairment : Higher incidence of adverse reactions related to reduced renal function ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data showing adverse renal effects from empagliflozin , GLYXAMBI is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy .
The limited available data with GLYXAMBI , linagliptin , or empagliflozin in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal studies , empagliflozin , a component of GLYXAMBI , resulted in adverse renal changes in rats when administered during a period of renal development corresponding to the late second and third trimesters of human pregnancy .
Doses approximately 13 - times the maximum clinical dose caused renal pelvic and tubule dilatations that were reversible .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when the combination of linagliptin and empagliflozin was administered to pregnant rats ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 % to 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 % to 25 % in women with HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk : Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Animal Data The combined components administered during the period of organogenesis were not teratogenic in rats up to and including a combined dose of 700 mg / kg / day empagliflozin and 140 mg / kg / day linagliptin , which is 253 - and 353 - times the clinical exposure .
A pre - and postnatal development study was not conducted with the combined components of GLYXAMBI .
Empagliflozin : Empagliflozin dosed directly to juvenile rats from postnatal day ( PND ) 21 until PND 90 at doses of 1 , 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day caused increased kidney weights and renal tubular and pelvic dilatation at 100 mg / kg / day , which approximates 13 - times the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg , based on AUC .
These findings were not observed after a 13 - week , drug - free recovery period .
These outcomes occurred with drug exposure during periods of renal development in rats that correspond to the late second and third trimester of human renal development .
In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , empagliflozin was administered for intervals coinciding with the first trimester period of organogenesis in humans .
Doses up to 300 mg / kg / day , which approximates 48 - times ( rats ) and 128 - times ( rabbits ) the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg ( based on AUC ) , did not result in adverse developmental effects .
In rats , at higher doses of empagliflozin causing maternal toxicity , malformations of limb bones increased in fetuses at 700 mg / kg / day or 154 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose .
Empagliflozin crosses the placenta and reaches fetal tissues in rats .
In the rabbit , higher doses of empagliflozin resulted in maternal and fetal toxicity at 700 mg / kg / day , or 139 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose .
In pre - and postnatal development studies in pregnant rats , empagliflozin was administered from gestation day 6 through to lactation day 20 ( weaning ) at up to 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 16 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose ) without maternal toxicity .
Reduced body weight was observed in the offspring at greater than or equal to 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 4 - times the 25 mg maximum clinical dose ) .
Linagliptin : No adverse developmental outcome was observed when linagliptin was administered to pregnant Wistar Han rats and Himalayan rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 240 mg / kg / day and 150 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses represent approximately 943 - times ( rats ) and 1943 - times ( rabbits ) the 5 mg maximum clinical dose , based on exposure .
No adverse functional , behavioral , or reproductive outcome was observed in offspring following administration of linagliptin to Wistar Han rats from gestation day 6 to lactation day 21 at a dose 49 - times the maximum recommended human dose , based on exposure .
Linagliptin crosses the placenta into the fetus following oral dosing in pregnant rats and rabbits .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is limited information regarding the presence of GLYXAMBI , or its individual components in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Empagliflozin and linagliptin are present in rat milk ( see Data ) .
Since human kidney maturation occurs in utero and during the first 2 years of life when lactational exposure may occur , there may be risk to the developing human kidney .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed infant , including the potential for empagliflozin to affect postnatal renal development , advise patients that use of GLYXAMBI is not recommended while breastfeeding .
Data Empagliflozin was present at a low level in rat fetal tissues after a single oral dose to the dams at gestation day 18 .
In rat milk , the mean milk to plasma ratio ranged from 0 . 634 to 5 , and was greater than one from 2 to 24 hours post - dose .
The mean maximal milk to plasma ratio of 5 occurred at 8 hours post - dose , suggesting accumulation of empagliflozin in the milk .
Juvenile rats directly exposed to empagliflozin showed a risk to the developing kidney ( renal pelvic and tubular dilatations ) during maturation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of GLYXAMBI have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use GLYXAMBI Empagliflozin is associated with osmotic diuresis , which could affect hydration status of patients age 75 years and older [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Empagliflozin In empagliflozin type 2 diabetes studies , 2721 empagliflozin - treated patients were 65 years of age and older and 491 patients were 75 years of age and older .
In these studies , volume depletion - related adverse reactions occurred in 2 . 1 % , 2 . 3 % , and 4 . 4 % of patients 75 years of age and older in the placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg once daily groups , respectively ; and urinary tract infections occurred in 10 . 5 % , 15 . 7 % , and 15 . 1 % of patients 75 years of age and older in the placebo , empagliflozin 10 mg , and empagliflozin 25 mg once daily groups , respectively .
Linagliptin In linagliptin studies , 1085 linagliptin - treated patients were 65 years of age and older and 131 patients were 75 years of age and older .
In these linagliptin studies , no overall differences in safety or effectiveness of linagliptin were observed between geriatric patients and younger adult patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Empagliflozin The glucose lowering benefit of empagliflozin 25 mg decreased in patients with worsening renal function .
The risks of renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , volume depletion adverse reactions and urinary tract infection - related adverse reactions increased with worsening renal function .
Efficacy and safety studies with empagliflozin did not enroll patients with ESRD on dialysis or patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
Empagliflozin is contraindicated in patients on dialysis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment GLYXAMBI may be used in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose with GLYXAMBI , contact the Poison Control Center .
Removal of empagliflozin by hemodialysis has not been studied , and removal of linagliptin by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is unlikely .
11 DESCRIPTION GLYXAMBI tablets for oral use contain : empagliflozin and linagliptin .
Empagliflozin Empagliflozin is an inhibitor of the sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) .
The chemical name of empagliflozin is D - Glucitol , 1 , 5 - anhydro - 1 - C - [ 4 - chloro - 3 - [ [ 4 - [ [ ( 3 S ) - tetrahydro - 3 - furanyl ] oxy ] phenyl ] methyl ] phenyl ] - , ( 1 S ) .
The molecular formula is C23H27ClO7 and the molecular weight is 450 . 91 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Empagliflozin is a white to yellowish , non - hygroscopic powder .
It is very slightly soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol , slightly soluble in ethanol and acetonitrile , soluble in 50 % acetonitrile / water , and practically insoluble in toluene .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Linagliptin Linagliptin is an inhibitor of the dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) enzyme .
The chemical name of linagliptin is 1 H - Purine - 2 , 6 - dione , 8 - [ ( 3 R ) - 3 - amino - 1 - piperidinyl ] - 7 - ( 2 - butyn - 1 - yl ) - 3 , 7 - dihydro - 3 - methyl - 1 - [ ( 4 - methyl - 2 - quinazolinyl ) methyl ] - The molecular formula is C25H28N8O2 and the molecular weight is 472 . 54 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linagliptin is a white to yellowish , not or only slightly hygroscopic solid substance .
It is very slightly soluble in water .
Linagliptin is soluble in methanol , sparingly soluble in ethanol , very slightly soluble in isopropanol , and very slightly soluble in acetone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] GLYXAMBI GLYXAMBI tablets are available in two dosage strengths containing 10 mg or 25 mg empagliflozin in combination with 5 mg linagliptin .
The inactive ingredients of GLYXAMBI are the following : Tablet Core : mannitol , pregelatinized starch , corn starch , copovidone , crospovidone , talc and magnesium stearate .
Coating : hypromellose , mannitol , talc , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol and ferric oxide , yellow ( 10 mg / 5 mg ) or ferric oxide , red ( 25 mg / 5 mg ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action GLYXAMBI GLYXAMBI contains : empagliflozin , a sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor , and linagliptin , a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor .
Empagliflozin Empagliflozin is an inhibitor of the sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) , the predominant transporter responsible for reabsorption of glucose from the glomerular filtrate back into the circulation .
By inhibiting SGLT2 , empagliflozin reduces renal reabsorption of filtered glucose and lowers the renal threshold for glucose , and thereby increases urinary glucose excretion .
Linagliptin Linagliptin is an inhibitor of DPP - 4 , an enzyme that degrades the incretin hormones glucagon - like peptide - 1 ( GLP - 1 ) and glucose - dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ( GIP ) .
Thus , linagliptin increases the concentrations of active incretin hormones , stimulating the release of insulin in a glucose - dependent manner and decreasing the levels of glucagon in the circulation .
Both incretin hormones are involved in the physiological regulation of glucose homeostasis .
Incretin hormones are secreted at a low basal level throughout the day and levels rise immediately after meal intake .
GLP - 1 and GIP increase insulin biosynthesis and secretion from pancreatic beta cells in the presence of normal and elevated blood glucose levels .
Furthermore , GLP - 1 also reduces glucagon secretion from pancreatic alpha cells , resulting in a reduction in hepatic glucose output .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Empagliflozin Urinary Glucose Excretion In patients with type 2 diabetes , urinary glucose excretion increased immediately following a dose of empagliflozin and was maintained at the end of a 4 - week treatment period averaging at approximately 64 grams per day with 10 mg empagliflozin and 78 grams per day with 25 mg empagliflozin once daily .
Data from single oral doses of empagliflozin in healthy subjects indicate that , on average , the elevation in urinary glucose excretion approaches baseline by about 3 days for the 10 mg and 25 mg doses .
Urinary Volume In a 5 - day study , mean 24 - hour urine volume increase from baseline was 341 mL on Day 1 and 135 mL on Day 5 of empagliflozin 25 mg once daily treatment .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , placebo - controlled , active - comparator , crossover study , 30 healthy subjects were administered a single oral dose of empagliflozin 25 mg , empagliflozin 200 mg ( 8 times the maximum recommended dose ) , moxifloxacin , and placebo .
No increase in QTc was observed with either 25 mg or 200 mg empagliflozin .
Linagliptin Linagliptin binds to DPP - 4 in a reversible manner and increases the concentrations of incretin hormones .
Linagliptin glucose - dependently increases insulin secretion and lowers glucagon secretion , thus resulting in a better regulation of the glucose homeostasis .
Linagliptin binds selectively to DPP - 4 and selectively inhibits DPP - 4 , but not DPP - 8 or DPP - 9 activity in vitro at concentrations approximating therapeutic exposures .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , placebo - controlled , active - comparator , 4 - way crossover study , 36 healthy subjects were administered a single oral dose of linagliptin 5 mg , linagliptin 100 mg ( 20 times the recommended dose ) , moxifloxacin , and placebo .
No increase in QTc was observed with either the recommended dose of 5 mg or the 100 - mg dose .
At the 100 - mg dose , peak linagliptin plasma concentrations were approximately 38 - fold higher than the peak concentrations following a 5 - mg dose .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics GLYXAMBI Administration of the fixed - dose combination with food resulted in no change in overall exposure of empagliflozin or linagliptin ; however , the peak exposure was decreased 39 % and 32 % for empagliflozin and linagliptin , respectively .
These changes are not likely to be clinically significant .
Absorption Empagliflozin The pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin has been characterized in healthy volunteers and patients with type 2 diabetes and no clinically relevant differences were noted between the two populations .
After oral administration , peak plasma concentrations of empagliflozin were reached at 1 . 5 hours post - dose .
Thereafter , plasma concentrations declined in a biphasic manner with a rapid distribution phase and a relatively slow terminal phase .
The steady - state mean plasma AUC and Cmax were 1870 nmol ∙ h / L and 259 nmol / L , respectively , with 10 mg empagliflozin once daily treatment , and 4740 nmol ∙ h / L and 687 nmol / L , respectively , with 25 mg empagliflozin once daily treatment .
Systemic exposure of empagliflozin increased in a dose - proportional manner in the therapeutic dose range .
The single - dose and steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of empagliflozin were similar , suggesting linear pharmacokinetics with respect to time .
Administration of 25 mg empagliflozin after intake of a high - fat and high - calorie meal resulted in slightly lower exposure ; AUC decreased by approximately 16 % and Cmax decreased by approximately 37 % , compared to fasted condition .
The observed effect of food on empagliflozin pharmacokinetics was not considered clinically relevant and empagliflozin may be administered with or without food .
Linagliptin The absolute bioavailability of linagliptin is approximately 30 % .
High - fat meal reduced Cmax by 15 % and increased AUC by 4 % ; this effect is not clinically relevant .
Linagliptin may be administered with or without food .
Distribution Empagliflozin The apparent steady - state volume of distribution was estimated to be 73 . 8 L based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] - empagliflozin solution to healthy subjects , the red blood cell partitioning was approximately 36 . 8 % and plasma protein binding was 86 . 2 % .
Linagliptin The mean apparent volume of distribution at steady - state following a single intravenous dose of linagliptin 5 mg to healthy subjects is approximately 1110 L , indicating that linagliptin extensively distributes to the tissues .
Plasma protein binding of linagliptin is concentration - dependent , decreasing from about 99 % at 1 nmol / L to 75 % to 89 % at ≥ 30 nmol / L , reflecting saturation of binding to DPP - 4 with increasing concentration of linagliptin .
At high concentrations , where DPP - 4 is fully saturated , 70 % to 80 % of linagliptin remains bound to plasma proteins and 20 % to 30 % is unbound in plasma .
Plasma binding is not altered in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Elimination Empagliflozin : The apparent terminal elimination half - life of empagliflozin was estimated to be 12 . 4 h and apparent oral clearance was 10 . 6 L / h based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Following once - daily dosing , up to 22 % accumulation , with respect to plasma AUC , was observed at steady - state , which was consistent with empagliflozin half - life .
Linagliptin : Linagliptin has a terminal half - life of about 200 hours at steady - state , though the accumulation half - life is about 11 hours .
Renal clearance at steady - state was approximately 70 mL / min .
Metabolism Empagliflozin : No major metabolites of empagliflozin were detected in human plasma and the most abundant metabolites were three glucuronide conjugates ( 2 - O - , 3 - O - , and 6 - O - glucuronide ) .
Systemic exposure of each metabolite was less than 10 % of total drug - related material .
In vitro studies suggested that the primary route of metabolism of empagliflozin in humans is glucuronidation by the uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferases UGT2B7 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , and UGT1A9 .
Linagliptin : Following oral administration , the majority ( about 90 % ) of linagliptin is excreted unchanged , indicating that metabolism represents a minor elimination pathway .
A small fraction of absorbed linagliptin is metabolized to a pharmacologically inactive metabolite , which shows a steady - state exposure of 13 . 3 % relative to linagliptin .
Excretion Empagliflozin : Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] - empagliflozin solution to healthy subjects , approximately 95 . 6 % of the drug - related radioactivity was eliminated in feces ( 41 . 2 % ) or urine ( 54 . 4 % ) .
The majority of drug - related radioactivity recovered in feces was unchanged parent drug and approximately half of drug - related radioactivity excreted in urine was unchanged parent drug .
Linagliptin : Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] - linagliptin dose to healthy subjects , approximately 85 % of the administered radioactivity was eliminated via the enterohepatic system ( 80 % ) or urine ( 5 % ) within 4 days of dosing .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment GLYXAMBI : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin and linagliptin after administration of GLYXAMBI in renally impaired patients have not been performed .
Empagliflozin : In patients with mild ( eGFR : 60 to less than 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , moderate ( eGFR : 30 to less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , and severe ( eGFR : less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment and patients on dialysis due to kidney failure , AUC of empagliflozin increased by approximately 18 % , 20 % , 66 % , and 48 % , respectively , compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Peak plasma levels of empagliflozin were similar in patients with moderate renal impairment and patients on dialysis due to kidney failure compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Peak plasma levels of empagliflozin were roughly 20 % higher in patients with mild and severe renal impairment as compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the apparent oral clearance of empagliflozin decreased , with a decrease in eGFR leading to an increase in drug exposure .
However , the fraction of empagliflozin that was excreted unchanged in urine , and urinary glucose excretion , declined with decrease in eGFR .
Linagliptin : An open - label pharmacokinetic study evaluated the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin 5 mg in male and female patients with varying degrees of chronic renal impairment .
The study included 6 healthy subjects with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance [ CrCl ] ≥ 80 mL / min ) , 6 patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 50 to < 80 mL / min ) , 6 patients with moderate renal impairment ( CrCl 30 to < 50 mL / min ) , 10 patients with type 2 diabetes and severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) , and 11 patients with type 2 diabetes and normal renal function .
Creatinine clearance was measured by 24 - hour urinary creatinine clearance measurements or estimated from serum creatinine based on the Cockcroft - Gault formula .
Under steady - state conditions , linagliptin exposure in patients with mild renal impairment was comparable to healthy subjects .
In patients with moderate renal impairment under steady - state conditions , mean exposure of linagliptin increased ( AUCτ , ss by 71 % and Cmax by 46 % ) compared with healthy subjects .
This increase was not associated with a prolonged accumulation half - life , terminal half - life , or an increased accumulation factor .
Renal excretion of linagliptin was below 5 % of the administered dose and was not affected by decreased renal function .
Patients with type 2 diabetes and severe renal impairment showed steady - state exposure approximately 40 % higher than that of patients with type 2 diabetes and normal renal function ( increase in AUCτ , ss by 42 % and Cmax by 35 % ) .
For both type 2 diabetes groups , renal excretion was below 7 % of the administered dose .
These findings were further supported by the results of population pharmacokinetic analyses .
Hepatic Impairment GLYXAMBI : Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin and linagliptin after administration of GLYXAMBI in hepatically impaired patients have not been performed .
Empagliflozin : In patients with mild , moderate , and severe hepatic impairment according to the Child - Pugh classification , AUC of empagliflozin increased by approximately 23 % , 47 % , and 75 % and Cmax increased by approximately 4 % , 23 % , and 48 % , respectively , compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
Linagliptin : In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A ) steady - state exposure ( AUCτ , ss ) of linagliptin was approximately 25 % lower and Cmax , ss was approximately 36 % lower than in healthy subjects .
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class B ) , AUCss of linagliptin was about 14 % lower and Cmax , ss was approximately 8 % lower than in healthy subjects .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class C ) had comparable exposure of linagliptin in terms of AUC0 - 24 and approximately 23 % lower Cmax compared with healthy subjects .
Reductions in the pharmacokinetic parameters seen in patients with hepatic impairment did not result in reductions in DPP - 4 inhibition .
Effects of Age , Body Mass Index , Gender , and Race Empagliflozin : Based on the population PK analysis , age , body mass index ( BMI ) , gender and race ( Asians versus primarily Whites ) do not have a clinically meaningful effect on pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Linagliptin : Based on the population PK analysis , age , body mass index ( BMI ) , gender and race do not have a clinically meaningful effect on pharmacokinetics of linagliptin [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with GLYXAMBI have not been performed ; however , such studies have been conducted with the individual components of GLYXAMBI ( empagliflozin and linagliptin ) .
Empagliflozin In vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Empagliflozin does not inhibit , inactivate , or induce CYP450 isoforms .
In vitro data suggest that the primary route of metabolism of empagliflozin in humans is glucuronidation by the uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferases UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 .
Empagliflozin does not inhibit UGT1A1 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , UGT1A9 , or UGT2B7 .
Therefore , no effect of empagliflozin is anticipated on concomitantly administered drugs that are substrates of the major CYP450 isoforms or UGT1A1 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A8 , UGT1A9 , or UGT2B7 .
The effect of UGT induction ( e . g . , induction by rifampicin or any other UGT enzyme inducer ) on empagliflozin exposure has not been evaluated .
Empagliflozin is a substrate for P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , but it does not inhibit these efflux transporters at therapeutic doses .
Based on in vitro studies , empagliflozin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with drugs that are P - gp substrates .
Empagliflozin is a substrate of the human uptake transporters OAT3 , OATP1B1 , and OATP1B3 , but not OAT1 and OCT2 .
Empagliflozin does not inhibit any of these human uptake transporters at clinically relevant plasma concentrations and , therefore , no effect of empagliflozin is anticipated on concomitantly administered drugs that are substrates of these uptake transporters .
In vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Empagliflozin pharmacokinetics were similar with and without coadministration of metformin , glimepiride , pioglitazone , sitagliptin , linagliptin , warfarin , verapamil , ramipril , and simvastatin in healthy volunteers and with or without coadministration of hydrochlorothiazide and torsemide in patients with type 2 diabetes ( see Figure 1 ) .
In subjects with normal renal function , coadministration of empagliflozin with probenecid resulted in a 30 % decrease in the fraction of empagliflozin excreted in urine without any effect on 24 - hour urinary glucose excretion .
The relevance of this observation to patients with renal impairment is unknown .
Figure 1 Effect of Various Medications on the Pharmacokinetics of Empagliflozin as Displayed as 90 % Confidence Interval of Geometric Mean AUC and Cmax Ratios [ reference lines indicate 100 % ( 80 % - 125 % ) ] aempagliflozin , 50 mg , once daily ; bempagliflozin , 25 mg , single dose ; cempagliflozin , 25 mg , once daily ; dempagliflozin , 10 mg , single dose [ MULTIMEDIA ] Empagliflozin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin , glimepiride , pioglitazone , sitagliptin , linagliptin , warfarin , digoxin , ramipril , simvastatin , hydrochlorothiazide , torsemide , and oral contraceptives when coadministered in healthy volunteers ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 Effect of Empagliflozin on the Pharmacokinetics of Various Medications as Displayed as 90 % Confidence Interval of Geometric Mean AUC and Cmax Ratios [ reference lines indicate 100 % ( 80 % - 125 % ) ] aempagliflozin , 50 mg , once daily ; bempagliflozin , 25 mg , once daily ; cempagliflozin , 25 mg , single dose ; dadministered as simvastatin ; eadministered as warfarin racemic mixture ; fadministered as Microgynon ® ; gadministered as ramipril [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linagliptin In vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Linagliptin is a weak to moderate inhibitor of CYP isozyme CYP3A4 , but does not inhibit other CYP isozymes and is not an inducer of CYP isozymes , including CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 4A11 .
Linagliptin is a P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) substrate , and inhibits P - gp mediated transport of digoxin at high concentrations .
Based on these results and in vivo drug interaction studies , linagliptin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with other P - gp substrates at therapeutic concentrations .
In vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Strong inducers of CYP3A4 or P - gp ( e . g . , rifampin ) decrease exposure to linagliptin to subtherapeutic and likely ineffective concentrations [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
In vivo studies indicated evidence of a low propensity for causing drug interactions with substrates of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C8 , P - gp and organic cationic transporter ( OCT ) .
Table 4 Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Systemic Exposure of LinagliptinCoadministered Drug Dosing of Coadministered Druga Dosing of Linagliptina Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUCd Cmax aMultiple dose ( steady - state ) unless otherwise noted bFor information regarding clinical recommendations [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
cSingle dose dAUC = AUC ( 0 to 24 hours ) for single dose treatments and AUC = AUC ( TAU ) for multiple - dose treatments QD = once daily BID = twice daily TID = three times daily Metformin 850 mg TID 10 mg QD 1 . 20 1 . 03 Glyburide 1 . 75 mgc 5 mg QD 1 . 02 1 . 01 Pioglitazone 45 mg QD 10 mg QD 1 . 13 1 . 07 Ritonavir 200 mg BID 5 mgc 2 . 01 2 . 96 Rifampinb 600 mg QD 5 mg QD 0 . 60 0 . 56 Table 5 Effect of Linagliptin on Systemic Exposure of Coadministered DrugsCoadministered Drug Dosing of Coadministered Druga Dosing of Linagliptina Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 0 AUCc Cmax aMultiple dose ( steady - state ) unless otherwise noted bSingle dose cAUC = AUC ( INF ) for single dose treatments and AUC = AUC ( TAU ) for multiple dose treatments dAUC = AUC ( 0 - 168 ) and Cmax = Emax for pharmacodynamic end points INR = International Normalized Ratio PT = Prothrombin Time QD = once daily TID = three times daily Metformin 850 mg TID 10 mg QD metformin 1 . 01 0 . 89 Glyburide 1 . 75 mgb 5 mg QD glyburide 0 . 86 0 . 86 Pioglitazone 45 mg QD 10 mg QD pioglitazone 0 . 94 0 . 86 metabolite M - III 0 . 98 0 . 96 metabolite M - IV 1 . 04 1 . 05 Digoxin 0 . 25 mg QD 5 mg QD digoxin 1 . 02 0 . 94 Simvastatin 40 mg QD 10 mg QD simvastatin 1 . 34 1 . 10 simvastatin acid 1 . 33 1 . 21 Warfarin 10 mgb 5 mg QD R - warfarin 0 . 99 1 . 00 S - warfarin 1 . 03 1 . 01 INR 0 . 93 d 1 . 04 d PT 1 . 03 d 1 . 15 d Ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel ethinylestradiol 0 . 03 mg and levonorgestrel 0 . 150 mg QD 5 mg QD ethinylestradiol 1 . 01 1 . 08 levonorgestrel 1 . 09 1 . 13 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility GLYXAMBI No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of empagliflozin and linagliptin .
Empagliflozin Carcinogenesis was evaluated in 2 - year studies conducted in CD - 1 mice and Wistar rats .
Empagliflozin did not increase the incidence of tumors in female rats dosed at 100 , 300 , or 700 mg / kg / day ( up to 72 times the exposure from the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg ) .
In male rats , hemangiomas of the mesenteric lymph node were increased significantly at 700 mg / kg / day or approximately 42 times the exposure from a 25 mg clinical dose .
Empagliflozin did not increase the incidence of tumors in female mice dosed at 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day ( up to 62 times the exposure from a 25 mg clinical dose ) .
Renal tubule adenomas and carcinomas were observed in male mice at 1000 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 45 times the exposure of the maximum clinical dose of 25 mg .
These tumors may be associated with a metabolic pathway predominantly present in the male mouse kidney .
Empagliflozin was not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the in vitro Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay , the in vitro L5178Y tk + / - mouse lymphoma cell assay , and an in vivo micronucleus assay in rats .
Empagliflozin had no effects on mating , fertility or early embryonic development in treated male or female rats up to the high dose of 700 mg / kg / day ( approximately 155 times the 25 mg clinical dose in males and females , respectively ) .
Linagliptin Linagliptin did not increase the incidence of tumors in male and female rats in a 2 - year study at doses of 6 , 18 , and 60 mg / kg .
The highest dose of 60 mg / kg is approximately 418 times the clinical dose of 5 mg / day based on AUC exposure .
Linagliptin did not increase the incidence of tumors in mice in a 2 - year study at doses up to 80 mg / kg ( males ) and 25 mg / kg ( females ) , or approximately 35 - and 270 - times the clinical dose based on AUC exposure .
Higher doses of linagliptin in female mice ( 80 mg / kg ) increased the incidence of lymphoma at approximately 215 - times the clinical dose based on AUC exposure .
Linagliptin was not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay , a chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , and an in vivo micronucleus assay .
In fertility studies in rats , linagliptin had no adverse effects on early embryonic development , mating , fertility , or bearing live young up to the highest dose of 240 mg / kg ( approximately 943 - times the clinical dose based on AUC exposure ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES GLYXAMBI Glycemic Control Studies Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin A total of 686 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a double - blind , active - controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg in combination with linagliptin 5 mg compared to the individual components .
Patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on at least 1500 mg of metformin per day entered a single - blind placebo run - in period for 2 weeks .
At the end of the run - in period , patients who remained inadequately controlled and had an HbA1c between 7 % and 10 . 5 % were randomized 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 to one of 5 active - treatment arms of empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg , linagliptin 5 mg , or linagliptin 5 mg in combination with 10 mg or 25 mg empagliflozin as a fixed dose combination tablet .
At Week 24 , empagliflozin 10 mg or 25 mg used in combination with linagliptin 5 mg provided statistically significant improvement in HbA1c ( p - value < 0 . 0001 ) and FPG ( p - value < 0 . 001 ) compared to the individual components in patients who had been inadequately controlled on metformin ( see Table 6 , Figure 3 ) .
Treatment with GLYXAMBI 25 mg / 5 mg or GLYXAMBI 10 mg / 5 mg daily also resulted in a statistically significant reduction in body weight compared to linagliptin 5 mg ( p - value < 0 . 0001 ) .
There was no statistically significant difference compared to empagliflozin alone .
Table 6 Glycemic Parameters at 24 Weeks in a Study Comparing GLYXAMBI to the Individual Components as Add - on Therapy in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Metformin GLYXAMBI 10 mg / 5 mg GLYXAMBI 25 mg / 5 mg Empagliflozin 10 mg Empagliflozin 25 mg Linagliptin 5 mg aFull analysis population ( observed case ) using MMRM .
MMRM model included treatment , renal function , region , visit , visit by treatment interaction , and baseline HbA1c .
bPatients with HbA1c above 7 % at baseline : GLYXAMBI 25 mg / 5 mg , n = 123 ; GLYXAMBI 10 mg / 5 mg , n = 128 ; empagliflozin 25 mg , n = 132 ; empagliflozin 10 mg , n = 125 ; linagliptin 5 mg , n = 119 .
Non - completers were considered failures ( NCF ) .
cFull analysis population using last observation carried forward .
ANCOVA model included treatment , renal function , region , baseline weight , and baseline HbA1c .
dp < 0 . 001 for FPG ; p < 0 . 0001 for HbA1c and body weight HbA1c ( % ) Number of patients n = 135 n = 133 n = 137 n = 139 n = 128 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 0 7 . 9 8 . 0 8 . 0 8 . 0 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 1 . 1 - 1 . 2 - 0 . 7 - 0 . 6 - 0 . 7 Comparison vs empagliflozin 25 mg or 10 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) a - 0 . 4 ( - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 2 ) d - 0 . 6 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 4 ) d -- -- -- Comparison vs linagliptin 5 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) a - 0 . 4 ( - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 2 ) d - 0 . 5 ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 3 ) d -- -- -- Patients [ n ( % ) ] achieving HbA1c < 7 % b 74 ( 58 ) 76 ( 62 ) 35 ( 28 ) 43 ( 33 ) 43 ( 36 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) Number of patients n = 133 n = 131 n = 136 n = 137 n = 125 Baseline ( mean ) 157 155 162 160 156 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 33 - 36 - 21 - 21 - 13 Comparison vs empagliflozin 25 mg or 10 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) a - 12 ( - 18 , - 5 ) d - 15 ( - 22 , - 9 ) d -- -- -- Comparison vs linagliptin 5 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) a - 20 ( - 27 , - 13 ) d - 23 ( - 29 , - 16 ) d -- -- -- Body Weight Number of patients n = 135 n = 134 n = 137 n = 140 n = 128 Baseline ( mean ) in kg 87 85 86 88 85 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 3 . 1 - 3 . 4 - 3 . 0 - 3 . 5 - 0 . 7 Comparison vs empagliflozin 25 mg or 10 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) c 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 9 , 0 . 8 ) 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 8 , 0 . 9 ) -- -- -- Comparison vs linagliptin 5 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) c - 2 . 4 ( - 3 . 3 , - 1 . 5 ) d - 2 . 7 ( - 3 . 6 , - 1 . 8 ) d -- -- -- Figure 3 Adjusted Mean HbA1c Change at Each Time Point ( Completers ) and at Week 24 ( mITT population ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Empagliflozin Cardiovascular Outcome Study in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease .
The effect of empagliflozin on cardiovascular risk in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established , stable , atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is presented below .
The EMPA - REG OUTCOME study , a multicenter , multinational , randomized , double - blind parallel group trial compared the risk of experiencing a major adverse cardiovascular event ( MACE ) between empagliflozin and placebo when these were added to and used concomitantly with standard of care treatments for diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
Coadministered antidiabetic medications were to be kept stable for the first 12 weeks of the trial .
Thereafter , antidiabetic and atherosclerotic therapies could be adjusted , at the discretion of investigators , to ensure participants were treated according to the standard care for these diseases .
A total of 7020 patients were treated ( empagliflozin 10 mg = 2345 ; empagliflozin 25 mg = 2342 ; placebo = 2333 ) and followed for a median of 3 . 1 years .
Approximately 72 % of the study population was Caucasian , 22 % was Asian , and 5 % was Black .
The mean age was 63 years and approximately 72 % were male .
All patients in the study had inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus at baseline ( HbA1c greater than or equal to 7 % ) .
The mean HbA1c at baseline was 8 . 1 % and 57 % of participants had diabetes for more than 10 years .
Approximately 31 % , 22 % and 20 % reported a past history of neuropathy , retinopathy and nephropathy to investigators , respectively and the mean eGFR was 74 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
At baseline , patients were treated with one ( ~ 30 % ) or more ( ~ 70 % ) antidiabetic medications including metformin ( 74 % ) , insulin ( 48 % ) , sulfonylurea ( 43 % ) and dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 inhibitor ( 11 % ) .
All patients had established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease at baseline including one ( 82 % ) or more ( 18 % ) of the following : a documented history of coronary artery disease ( 76 % ) , stroke ( 23 % ) or peripheral artery disease ( 21 % ) .
At baseline , the mean systolic blood pressure was 136 mmHg , the mean diastolic blood pressure was 76 mmHg , the mean LDL was 86 mg / dL , the mean HDL was 44 mg / dL , and the mean urinary albumin to creatinine ratio ( UACR ) was 175 mg / g .
At baseline , approximately 81 % of patients were treated with renin angiotensin system inhibitors , 65 % with beta - blockers , 43 % with diuretics , 77 % with statins , and 86 % with antiplatelet agents ( mostly aspirin ) .
The primary endpoint in EMPA - REG OUTCOME was the time to first occurrence of a Major Adverse Cardiac Event ( MACE ) .
A major adverse cardiac event was defined as occurrence of either a cardiovascular death or a non - fatal myocardial infarction ( MI ) or a non - fatal stroke .
The statistical analysis plan had pre - specified that the 10 and 25 mg doses would be combined .
A Cox proportional hazards model was used to test for non - inferiority against the pre - specified risk margin of 1 . 3 for the hazard ratio of MACE and superiority on MACE if non - inferiority was demonstrated .
Type - 1 error was controlled across multiples tests using a hierarchical testing strategy .
Empagliflozin significantly reduced the risk of first occurrence of primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , or non - fatal stroke ( HR : 0 . 86 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 74 , 0 . 99 ) .
The treatment effect was due to a significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular death in subjects randomized to empagliflozin ( HR : 0 . 62 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 49 , 0 . 77 ) , with no change in the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction or non - fatal stroke ( see Table 7 and Figures 4 and 5 ) .
Results for the 10 mg and 25 mg empagliflozin doses were consistent with results for the combined dose groups .
Table 7 Treatment Effect for the Primary Composite Endpoint and its Componentsa Placebo N = 2333 Empagliflozin N = 4687 Hazard ratio vs placebo ( 95 % CI ) aTreated set ( patients who had received at least one dose of study drug ) bp - value for superiority ( 2 - sided ) 0 . 04 cTotal number of events Composite of cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , non - fatal stroke ( time to first occurrence ) b 282 ( 12 . 1 % ) 490 ( 10 . 5 % ) 0 . 86 ( 0 . 74 , 0 . 99 ) Non - fatal myocardial infarctionc 121 ( 5 . 2 % ) 213 ( 4 . 5 % ) 0 . 87 ( 0 . 70 , 1 . 09 ) Non - fatal strokec 60 ( 2 . 6 % ) 150 ( 3 . 2 % ) 1 . 24 ( 0 . 92 , 1 . 67 ) Cardiovascular deathc 137 ( 5 . 9 % ) 172 ( 3 . 7 % ) 0 . 62 ( 0 . 49 , 0 . 77 ) Figure 4 Estimated Cumulative Incidence of First MACE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 Estimated Cumulative Incidence of Cardiovascular Death [ MULTIMEDIA ] The efficacy of empagliflozin on cardiovascular death was generally consistent across major demographic and disease subgroups .
Vital status was obtained for 99 . 2 % of subjects in the trial .
A total of 463 deaths were recorded during the EMPA - REG OUTCOME trial .
Most of these deaths were categorized as cardiovascular deaths .
The non - cardiovascular deaths were only a small proportion of deaths and were balanced between the treatment groups ( 2 . 1 % in patients treated with empagliflozin , and 2 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linagliptin Cardiovascular Safety Trials CARMELINA The cardiovascular risk of linagliptin was evaluated in CARMELINA , a multinational , multi - center , placebo - controlled , double - blind , parallel group trial comparing linagliptin ( N = 3494 ) to placebo ( N = 3485 ) in adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a history of established macrovascular and / or renal disease .
The trial compared the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACE ) between linagliptin and placebo when these were added to standard of care treatments for diabetes and other cardiovascular risk factors .
The trial was event driven , the median duration of follow - up was 2 . 2 years and vital status was obtained for 99 . 7 % of patients .
Patients were eligible to enter the trial if they were adults with type 2 diabetes , with HbA1c of 6 . 5 % to 10 % , and had either albuminuria and previous macrovascular disease ( 39 % of enrolled population ) , or evidence of impaired renal function by eGFR and Urinary Albumin Creatinine Ratio ( UACR ) criteria ( 42 % of enrolled population ) , or both ( 18 % of enrolled population ) .
At baseline the mean age was 66 years and the population was 63 % male , 80 % Caucasian , 9 % Asian , and 6 % Black .
Mean HbA1c was 8 . 0 % and mean duration of type 2 diabetes mellitus was 15 years .
The trial population included 17 % patients ≥ 75 years of age and 62 % patients with renal impairment defined as eGFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean eGFR was 55 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and 27 % of patients had mild renal impairment ( eGFR 60 to 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , 47 % of patients had moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 to < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) and 15 % of patients had severe renal impairment ( eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
Patients were taking at least one antidiabetic drug ( 97 % ) , and the most common were insulin and analogues ( 57 % ) , metformin ( 54 % ) and sulfonylurea ( 32 % ) .
Patients were also taking antihypertensives ( 96 % ) , lipid lowering drugs ( 76 % ) with 72 % on statin , and aspirin ( 62 % ) .
The primary endpoint , MACE , was the time to first occurrence of one of three composite outcomes which included cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction or non - fatal stroke .
The study was designed as a non - inferiority trial with a pre - specified risk margin of 1 . 3 for the hazard ratio of MACE .
A total of 434 patients on linagliptin and 420 patients on placebo experienced MACE .
The incidence rate of MACE in both treatment arms : 56 . 3 MACE per 1000 patient - years on placebo vs . 57 . 7 MACE per 1000 patient - years on linagliptin .
The estimated hazard ratio for MACE associated with linagliptin relative to placebo was 1 . 02 with a 95 % confidence interval of ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 17 ) .
The upper bound of this confidence interval , 1 . 17 , excluded the risk margin of 1 . 3 .
CAROLINA The cardiovascular risk of linagliptin was evaluated in CAROLINA , a multi - center , multinational , randomized , double - blind parallel group trial comparing linagliptin ( N = 3023 ) to glimepiride ( N = 3010 ) in adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a history of established cardiovascular disease and / or multiple cardiovascular risk factors .
The trial compared the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACE ) between linagliptin and glimepiride when these were added to standard of care treatments for diabetes and other cardiovascular risk factors .
The trial was event driven , the median duration of follow - up was 6 . 23 years and vital status was obtained for 99 . 3 % of patients .
Patients were eligible to enter the trial if they were adults with type 2 diabetes with insufficient glycemic control ( defined as HbA1c of 6 . 5 % to 8 . 5 % or 6 . 5 % to 7 . 5 % depending on treatment - naïve , on monotherapy or on combination therapy ) , and were defined to be at high cardiovascular risk with previous vascular disease , evidence of vascular related end - organ damage , age ≥ 70 years , and / or two cardiovascular risk factors ( duration of diabetes > 10 years , systolic blood pressure > 140 mmHg , current smoker , LDL cholesterol ≥ 135 mg / dL ) .
At baseline the mean age was 64 years and the population was 60 % male , 73 % Caucasian , 18 % Asian , and 5 % Black .
The mean HbA1c was 7 . 15 % and mean duration of type 2 diabetes was 7 . 6 years .
The trial population included 34 % patients ≥ 70 years of age and 19 % patients with renal impairment defined as eGFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean eGFR was 77 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
Patients were taking at least one antidiabetic drug ( 91 % ) and the most common were metformin ( 83 % ) and sulfonylurea ( 28 % ) .
Patients were also taking antihypertensives ( 89 % ) , lipid lowering drugs ( 70 % ) with 65 % on statin , and aspirin ( 47 % ) .
The primary endpoint , MACE , was the time to first occurrence of one of three composite outcomes which included cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction or non - fatal stroke .
The study was designed as a non - inferiority trial with a pre - specified risk margin of 1 . 3 for the hazard ratio of MACE .
A total of 356 patients on linagliptin and 362 patients on glimepiride experienced MACE .
The incidence rate of MACE in both treatment arms : 20 . 7 MACE per 1000 patient - years on linagliptin vs . 21 . 2 MACE per 1000 patient - years on glimepiride .
The estimated hazard ratio for MACE associated with linagliptin relative to glimepiride was 0 . 98 with a 95 % confidence interval of ( 0 . 84 , 1 . 14 ) .
The upper bound of this confidence interval , 1 . 14 , excluded the risk margin of 1 . 3 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING GLYXAMBI tablets are available as follows : 10 mg / 5 mg tablets : pale yellow , arc triangular , flat - faced , bevel - edged , film - coated tablets .
One side is debossed with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol ; the other side is debossed with " 10 / 5 " .
Bottles of 30 ( NDC 0597 - 0182 - 30 ) Bottles of 90 ( NDC 0597 - 0182 - 90 ) Cartons containing 3 blister cards of 10 tablets each ( 3 × 10 ) ( NDC 0597 - 0182 - 39 ) , institutional pack .
25 mg / 5 mg tablets : pale pink , arc triangular , flat - faced , bevel - edged , film - coated tablets .
One side is debossed with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol ; the other side is debossed with " 25 / 5 " .
Bottles of 30 ( NDC 0597 - 0164 - 30 ) Bottles of 90 ( NDC 0597 - 0164 - 90 ) Cartons containing 3 blister cards of 10 tablets each ( 3 × 10 ) ( NDC 0597 - 0164 - 39 ) , institutional pack .
If repackaging is required , dispense in a tight container as defined in USP .
Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Pancreatitis Inform patients that acute pancreatitis has been reported during use of linagliptin .
Inform patients that persistent severe abdominal pain , sometimes radiating to the back , which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting , is the hallmark symptom of acute pancreatitis .
Instruct patients to discontinue GLYXAMBI promptly and contact their healthcare provider if persistent severe abdominal pain occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Ketoacidosis Inform patients that ketoacidosis is a serious life - threatening condition and that cases of ketoacidosis have been reported during use of empagliflozin , sometimes associated with illness or surgery among other risk factors .
Instruct patients to check ketones ( when possible ) if symptoms consistent with ketoacidosis occur even if blood glucose is not elevated .
If symptoms of ketoacidosis ( including nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , tiredness , and labored breathing ) occur , instruct patients to discontinue GLYXAMBI and seek medical attention immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Volume Depletion Inform patients that symptomatic hypotension may occur with GLYXAMBI and advise them to contact their healthcare provider if they experience such symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that dehydration may increase the risk for hypotension , and to maintain adequate fluid intake .
Serious Urinary Tract Infections Inform patients of the potential for urinary tract infections , which may be serious .
Provide them with information on the symptoms of urinary tract infections .
Advise them to seek medical advice if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Inform patients that the incidence of hypoglycemia is increased when GLYXAMBI is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin , and that a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) Inform patients that necrotizing infections of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) have occurred with empagliflozin , a component of GLYXAMBI .
Counsel patients to promptly seek medical attention if they develop pain or tenderness , redness , or swelling of the genitals or the area from the genitals back to the rectum , along with a fever above 100 . 4 ° F or malaise [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Genital Mycotic Infections in Females ( e . g . , Vulvovaginitis ) Inform female patients that vaginal yeast infections may occur and provide them with information on the signs and symptoms of vaginal yeast infections .
Advise them of treatment options and when to seek medical advice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Genital Mycotic Infections in Males ( e . g . , Balanitis or Balanoposthitis ) Inform male patients that yeast infection of the penis ( e . g . , balanitis or balanoposthitis ) may occur , especially in uncircumcised males and patients with chronic and recurrent infections .
Provide them with information on the signs and symptoms of balanitis and balanoposthitis ( rash or redness of the glans or foreskin of the penis ) .
Advise them of treatment options and when to seek medical advice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that serious allergic reactions , such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions , have been reported during postmarketing use of linagliptin or empagliflozin , components of GLYXAMBI .
If symptoms of allergic reactions ( such as rash , skin flaking or peeling , urticaria , swelling of the skin , or swelling of the face , lips , tongue , and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing ) occur , patients must stop taking GLYXAMBI and seek medical advice promptly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Severe and Disabling Arthralgia Inform patients that severe and disabling joint pain may occur with this class of drugs .
The time to onset of symptoms can range from one day to years .
Instruct patients to seek medical advice if severe joint pain occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Bullous Pemphigoid Inform patients that bullous pemphigoid has been reported during use of linagliptin .
Instruct patients to seek medical advice if blisters or erosions occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Heart Failure Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of heart failure .
Before initiating GLYXAMBI , patients should be asked about a history of heart failure or other risk factors for heart failure including moderate to severe renal impairment .
Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider as soon as possible if they experience symptoms of heart failure , including increasing shortness of breath , rapid increase in weight or swelling of the feet [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Laboratory Tests Inform patients that elevated glucose in urinalysis is expected when taking GLYXAMBI .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant patients , and patients of reproductive potential , of the potential risk to a fetus with treatment with GLYXAMBI [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients to report pregnancies to their healthcare provider as soon as possible .
Lactation Advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with GLYXAMBI [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Missed Dose Instruct patients to take GLYXAMBI only as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers .
Advise patients not to double their next dose .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Marketed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA and Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH , Ingelheim , Germany .
GLYXAMBI is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . either owns or uses the Jardiance ® , Tradjenta ® , EMPA - REG OUTCOME ® , CARMELINA ® , and CAROLINA ® trademarks under license .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL8994FI262022 MEDICATION GUIDE GLYXAMBI ® ( glik - SAM - bee ) ( empagliflozin and linagliptin tablets ) for oral use This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : October 2022 What is the most important information I should know about GLYXAMBI ?
GLYXAMBI can cause serious side effects , including : • Inflammation of the pancreas ( pancreatitis ) which may be severe and lead to death .
Certain medical problems make you more likely to get pancreatitis .
Before you start taking GLYXAMBI , tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had : • inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) • a history of alcoholism • stones in your gallbladder ( gallstones ) • high blood triglyceride levels Stop taking GLYXAMBI and call your healthcare provider right away if you have pain in your stomach area ( abdomen ) that is severe and will not go away .
The pain may be felt going from your abdomen to your back .
The pain may happen with or without vomiting .
These may be symptoms of pancreatitis .
• Ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in your blood or urine ) .
Ketoacidosis has happened in people who have type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes , during treatment with empagliflozin , one of the medicines in GLYXAMBI .
Ketoacidosis has also happened in people with diabetes who were sick or who had surgery during treatment with GLYXAMBI .
Ketoacidosis is a serious condition , which needs to be treated in a hospital .
Ketoacidosis may lead to death .
Ketoacidosis can happen with GLYXAMBI even if your blood sugar is less than 250 mg / dL .
Stop taking GLYXAMBI and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room if you get any of the following symptoms : • nausea • vomiting • stomach - area ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • trouble breathing If you get any of these symptoms during treatment with GLYXAMBI , if possible , check for ketones in your urine , even if your blood sugar is less than 250 mg / dL .
• Dehydration .
GLYXAMBI can cause some people to become dehydrated ( the loss of body water and salt ) .
Dehydration may cause you to feel dizzy , faint , light - headed , or weak , especially when you stand up ( orthostatic hypotension ) .
There have been reports of sudden worsening of kidney function in people who are taking GLYXAMBI .
You may be at higher risk of dehydration if you : • are on low sodium ( salt ) diet • are 65 years of age or older • take medicines to lower your blood pressure , including diuretics ( water pills ) • have kidney problems Talk to your healthcare provider about what you can do to prevent dehydration including how much fluid you should drink on a daily basis .
Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you reduce the amount of food or liquid you drink , for example if you are sick or cannot eat , or start to lose liquids from your body , for example from vomiting , diarrhea or being in the sun too long .
What is GLYXAMBI ?
GLYXAMBI is a prescription medicine that contains 2 diabetes medicines , empagliflozin ( JARDIANCE ) and linagliptin ( TRADJENTA ) .
GLYXAMBI can be used : • • along with diet and exercise to lower blood sugar in adults with type 2 diabetes , • in adults with type 2 diabetes who have known cardiovascular disease when empagliflozin ( JARDIANCE ) , one of the medicines in GLYXAMBI , is needed to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death .
• GLYXAMBI is not for people with type 1 diabetes .
It may increase their risk of diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in blood or urine ) .
• If you have had pancreatitis in the past , it is not known if you have a higher chance of getting pancreatitis while you take GLYXAMBI .
• GLYXAMBI is not for use to lower blood sugar in adults with type 2 diabetes who have severe kidney problems , because it may not work .
• It is not known if GLYXAMBI is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take GLYXAMBI ?
Do not take GLYXAMBI if you : • are on dialysis .
• are allergic to linagliptin ( TRADJENTA ) , empagliflozin ( JARDIANCE ) or any of the ingredients in GLYXAMBI .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in GLYXAMBI .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to GLYXAMBI may include : • skin rash , itching , flaking or peeling • raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • swelling of your face , lips , tongue and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing • difficulty with swallowing or breathing If you have any of these symptoms , stop taking GLYXAMBI and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking GLYXAMBI ?
Before taking GLYXAMBI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have a history of infection of the vagina or penis .
• have a history of urinary tract infection or problems with urination .
• are going to have surgery .
Your healthcare provider may stop your GLYXAMBI before you have surgery .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are having surgery about when to stop taking GLYXAMBI and when to start it again .
• are eating less , or there is a change in your diet .
• have or have had problems with your pancreas , including pancreatitis or surgery on your pancreas .
• drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in the short term ( " binge " drinking ) .
• have type 1 diabetes .
GLYXAMBI should not be used to treat people with type 1 diabetes .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
GLYXAMBI may harm your unborn baby .
If you become pregnant while taking GLYXAMBI , tell your healthcare provider as soon as possible .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
GLYXAMBI may pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking GLYXAMBI .
Do not breastfeed while taking GLYXAMBI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
GLYXAMBI may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how GLYXAMBI works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take GLYXAMBI ?
• Take GLYXAMBI exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Take GLYXAMBI 1 time each day in the morning , with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If you do not remember until it is time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule .
Do not take two doses of GLYXAMBI at the same time .
• Your healthcare provider may tell you to take GLYXAMBI along with other diabetes medicines .
Low blood sugar can happen more often when GLYXAMBI is taken with certain other diabetes medicines .
See " What are the possible side effects of GLYXAMBI ? "
• If you take too much GLYXAMBI , call your healthcare provider or local poison control center or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• When taking GLYXAMBI , you may have sugar in your urine , which will show up on a urine test .
• Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working before and during your treatment with GLYXAMBI .
What are the possible side effects of GLYXAMBI ?
GLYXAMBI may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about GLYXAMBI ? "
• Serious urinary tract infections .
Serious urinary tract infections that may lead to hospitalization have happened in people who are taking empagliflozin , one of the medicines in GLYXAMBI .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any signs or symptoms of a urinary tract infection such as a burning feeling when passing urine , a need to urinate often , the need to urinate right away , pain in the lower part of your stomach ( pelvis ) , or blood in the urine .
Sometimes people also may have a fever , back pain , nausea or vomiting .
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
If you take GLYXAMBI with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as a sulfonylurea or insulin , your risk of getting low blood sugar is higher .
The dose of your sulfonylurea medicine or insulin may need to be lowered while you take GLYXAMBI .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • headache • drowsiness • weakness • irritability • hunger • fast heartbeat • confusion • shaking or feeling jittery • dizziness • sweating • A rare but serious bacterial infection that causes damage to the tissue under the skin ( necrotizing fasciitis ) in the area between and around the anus and genitals ( perineum ) .
Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum has happened in women and men who take empagliflozin , one of the medicines in GLYXAMBI .
Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum may lead to hospitalization , may require multiple surgeries , and may lead to death .
Seek medical attention immediately if you have a fever or you are feeling very weak , tired or uncomfortable ( malaise ) , and you develop any of the following symptoms in the area between and around your anus and genitals : • pain or tenderness • swelling • redness of skin ( erythema ) • Vaginal yeast infection .
Symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection include : • vaginal odor • vaginal itching • white or yellowish vaginal discharge ( discharge may be lumpy or look like cottage cheese ) • Yeast infection of the penis ( balanitis or balanoposthitis ) .
Swelling of an uncircumcised penis may develop that makes it difficult to pull back the skin around the tip of the penis .
Other symptoms of a yeast infection of the penis include : • redness , itching , or swelling of the penis • foul smelling discharge from the penis • rash of the penis • pain in the skin around penis Talk to your healthcare provider about what to do if you get symptoms of a yeast infection of the vagina or penis .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to use an over - the - counter antifungal medicine .
Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you use an over - the - counter antifungal medicine and your symptoms do not go away .
• Allergic ( hypersensitivity ) reactions .
Serious allergic reactions have happened in people who are taking GLYXAMBI .
Symptoms may include : • swelling of your face , lips , tongue , throat , and other areas on your skin • difficulty with swallowing or breathing • raised , red areas on your skin ( hives ) • skin rash , itching , flaking , or peeling If you have any of these symptoms , stop taking GLYXAMBI and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• Joint pain .
Some people who take medicines called DPP - 4 inhibitors , one of the medicines in GLYXAMBI , may develop joint pain that can be severe .
Call your healthcare provider if you have severe joint pain .
• Skin reaction .
Some people who take medicines called DPP - 4 inhibitors , one of the medicines in GLYXAMBI , may develop a skin reaction called bullous pemphigoid that can require treatment in a hospital .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop blisters or the breakdown of the outer layer of your skin ( erosion ) .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to stop taking GLYXAMBI .
• Heart failure .
Heart failure means your heart does not pump blood well enough .
Before you start taking GLYXAMBI , tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had heart failure or have problems with your kidneys .
Contact your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • increasing shortness of breath or trouble breathing , especially when you lie down • swelling or fluid retention , especially in the feet , ankles or legs • an unusually fast increase in weight • unusual tiredness These may be symptoms of heart failure .
The most common side effects of GLYXAMBI include : • urinary tract infection • upper respiratory tract infection • stuffy or runny nose and sore throat Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of GLYXAMBI .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store GLYXAMBI ?
• Store GLYXAMBI at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep GLYXAMBI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of GLYXAMBI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use GLYXAMBI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give GLYXAMBI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about GLYXAMBI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in GLYXAMBI ?
Active ingredients : empagliflozin and linagliptin Inactive ingredients : mannitol , pregelatinized starch , corn starch , copovidone , crospovidone , talc and magnesium stearate .
The film coating contains the following inactive ingredients : hypromellose , mannitol , talc , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol .
10 mg / 5 mg tablets also contain yellow ferric oxide .
25 mg / 5 mg tablets also contain red ferric oxide .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Marketed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA and Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH , Ingelheim , Germany GLYXAMBI is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . either owns or uses the Jardiance ® , Tradjenta ® , EMPA - REG OUTCOME ® , CARMELINA ® , and CAROLINA ® trademarks under license .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL8994FI262022 For more information about GLYXAMBI , including current prescribing information and Medication Guide , go to www . glyxambi . com , scan the code , or call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg / 5 mg Bottle Label NDC 0597 - 0182 - 90 Glyxambi ® ( empagliflozin and linagliptin tablets ) 10 mg / 5 mg DISPENSE WITH ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE 90 tablets Rx only Boehringer Ingelheim Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg / 5 mg Bottle Label NDC 0597 - 0164 - 90 Glyxambi ® ( empagliflozin and linagliptin tablets ) 25 mg / 5 mg DISPENSE WITH ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE 90 tablets Rx only Boehringer Ingelheim Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
