Active ingredient ( in each 120 mL delivered dose ) Mineral oil 100 % w / v Purpose Lubricant laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation • this product generally produces bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes Warnings For rectal use only Caution : to be taken only at bedtime .
Do not use at any other time or administer to infants , except upon the advice of a physician .
Do not use • on children under 13 years of age • on pregnant women • on persons with difficulty swallowing • on bedridden patients • if you are presently taking a stool softener laxative • or take with meals Ask a doctor before use if you • have already used a laxative for more than 3 days • have abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • have a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding • you have no bowel movement within 30 minutes of enema use As with any drug , if you are nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions ( or as directed by a doctor ) Rectal enema dosage is 120 mL in a single daily dosage ( per 24 hours ) adults & children 13 years and over 1 bottle children under 13 years of age DO NOT USE Caution : Remove green protective shield before inserting : hold bottle upright , grasping bottle cap with fingers .
Grasp protective shield with other hand and pull gently to remove [ MULTIMEDIA ] Positioning : Left - side position : Lie on left side with knee bent and arms at rest .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Knee - chest position : Kneel , then lower head and chest forward until left side of face is resting on surface .
Position arms comfortably .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Administering enema : • With steady pressure , gently insert enema tip into rectum with a slight side - to - side movement , with tip pointing toward navel .
Insertion may be easier if person receiving enema bears down , as if having a bowel movement .
This helps relax the muscles around the anus .
• Do not force the enema tip into rectum as this can cause injury .
• Squeeze bottle until nearly all liquid is gone .
It is not necessary to empty the bottle completely , as it contains more liquid than needed .
• Remove enema tip from rectum .
This product generally produces a bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes .
• Do not retain enema solution in body for longer than 15 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other Information • store at room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF TOP OR BOTTOM FLAP OF CARTON IS TORN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredient none Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 323 - 0107 M - F 8 am to 5 pm Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline Industries , LP Three Lakes Drive , Northfield , IL 60093 Made in USA www . medline . com 1 - 800 - MEDLINE ( 633 - 5463 ) REF : CUR095010 V1 RD22NPX Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
