For retrograde cystourethrography Not intended for intravascular injection DESCRIPTION Cystografin is a radiopaque contrast agent supplied as a sterile , clear , colorless to pale yellow , mobile or slightly viscous solution .
Each mL provides 300 mg diatrizoate meglumine with 0 . 4 mg edetate disodium as a sequestering agent .
Each mL of solution also contains approximately 141 mg organically bound iodine .
At the time of manufacture , the air in the container is replaced by nitrogen .
The preparation should be protected from strong light .
INDICATION Cystografin is indicated for retrograde cystourethrography .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This preparation is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to salts of diatrizoic acid .
WARNINGS Severe sensitivity reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a personal or family history of bronchial asthma , significant allergies , or previous reactions to contrast agents .
A history of sensitivity to iodine per se or to other contrast agents is not an absolute contraindication to the use of diatrizoate meglumine , but calls for extreme caution in administration .
PRECAUTIONS Safe and effective use of this preparation depends upon proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
Retrograde cystourethrography should be performed with caution in patients with a known active infectious process of the urinary tract .
Sterile technique should be employed in administration .
During administration , care should be taken to avoid excessive pressure , rapid or acute distention of the bladder , and trauma .
Contrast agents may interfere with some chemical determinations made on urine specimens ; therefore , urine should be collected before administration of the contrast medium or two or more days afterwards .
Pregnancy — Teratogenic Effects : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with diatrizoate meglumine injection .
It is also not known whether diatrizoate meglumine injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cystografin should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Retrograde genitourinary procedures may cause such complications as hematuria , perforation of the urethra or bladder , introduction of infection into the genitourinary tract , and oliguria or anuria .
If intravasation of this drug occurs , the reactions which may be associated with intravenous administration may possibly be encountered .
Hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions may occur .
Severe reactions may be manifested by edema of the face and glottis , respiratory distress , convulsions or shock ; such reactions may prove fatal unless promptly controlled by such emergency measures as maintenance of a clear airway and immediate use of oxygen and resuscitative drugs .
Endocrine : Thyroid function tests indicative of hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression have been uncommonly reported following iodinated contrast media administration to adult and pediatric patients , including infants .
Some patients were treated for hypothyroidism .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preparation of the patient : Appropriate preparation is desirable for optimal results .
A laxative the night before the examination and a low residue diet the day before the procedure are recommended .
Dosage : The dose for retrograde use in cystography and voiding cystourethrography ranges from 25 to 300 mL depending on the age of the patient and the degree of bladder irritability ; amounts greater than 300 mL may be used if the bladder capacity allows .
Best results are obtained when the bladder is filled with the contrast agent .
If desired , the preparation may be diluted with sterile water or sterile saline as indicated in the table below .
Administration : After sterile catheterization , the bladder should be filled to capacity with Cystografin using a suitable sterile administration set .
Care should be taken to avoid using excessive pressure .
The presence of bladder discomfort or reflux and / or spontaneous voiding usually indicates that the bladder is full .
Radiography : The commonly employed radiographic techniques should be used .
A scout film is recommended before the contrast agent is administered .
Dilution TableUSE DILUTED SOLUTIONS IMMEDIATELY 100 mL Bottle Sterile Water or Sterile Saline Added % Diatrizoate Meglumine w / v % Organically Bound Iodine w / v Total Volume 0 mL 30 . 0 14 . 1 100 mL 25 mL 24 . 0 11 . 3 125 mL 50 mL 20 . 0 9 . 4 150 mL 67 mL 18 . 0 8 . 5 167 mL 300 mL Bottle Sterile Water or Sterile Saline Added 0 mL 30 . 0 14 . 1 300 mL 50 mL 25 . 7 12 . 1 350 mL HOW SUPPLIED Cystografin ( Diatrizoate Meglumine Injection USP 30 % ) is available in 200 mL and 400 mL bottles containing 100 mL and 300 mL of Cystografin respectively with sufficient capacity for dilution up to 167 mL and 350 mL respectively .
Storage Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP ] .
Protect from light .
Also Available Cystografin Dilute ( Diatrizoate Meglumine Injection USP 18 % ) is also available , as a 300 mL fill in a 400 mL bottle .
Revised April 2018 Rx only Manufactured for Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 by Patheon Italia S . p . A . 03013 Ferentino ( Italy ) Cystografin 100 mL Label NDC 0270 - 0149 - 60 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
