FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE DESCRIPTION : Fluorouracil Cream USP is topical preparations containing the fluorinated pyrimidine 5 - fluorouracil , an antineoplastic antimetabolite .
Fluorouracil Cream USP contains 5 % fluorouracil in a vanishing cream base consisting of methylparaben , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearyl alcohol , and white petrolatum .
Chemically , fluorouracil is a 5 - fluoro - 2 , 4 ( 1 H , 3 H ) - pyrimidinedione .
It is a white to practically white crystalline powder which is sparingly soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol .
One gram of fluorouracil is soluble in 100 mL of propylene glycol .
The molecular weight of 5 - fluorouracil is 130 . 08 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : There is evidence that the metabolism of fluorouracil in the anabolic pathway blocks the methylation reaction of deoxyuridylic acid to thymidylic acid .
In this manner , fluorouracil interferes with the synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) and to a lesser extent inhibits the formation of ribonucleic acid ( RNA ) .
Since DNA and RNA are essential for cell division and growth , the effect of fluorouracil may be to create a thymine deficiency which provokes unbalanced growth and death of the cell .
The effects of DNA and RNA deprivation are most marked on those cells which grow more rapidly and take up fluorouracil at a more rapid rate .
The catabolic metabolism of fluorouracil results in degradation products ( e . g . , CO 2 , urea , α - fluoro - β - alanine ) which are inactive .
Systemic absorption studies of topically applied fluorouracil have been performed on patients with actinic keratoses using tracer amounts of 14 C - labeled fluorouracil added to a 5 % preparation .
All patients had been receiving nonlabeled fluorouracil until the peak of the inflammatory reaction occurred ( 2 to 3 weeks ) , ensuring that the time of maximum absorption was used for measurement .
One gram of labeled preparation was applied to the entire face and neck and left in place for 12 hours .
Urine samples were collected .
At the end of 3 days , the total recovery ranged between 0 . 48 % and 0 . 94 % with an average of 0 . 76 % , indicating that approximately 5 . 98 % of the topical dose was absorbed systemically .
If applied twice daily , this would indicate systemic absorption of topical fluorouracil to be in the range of 5 to 6 mg per daily dose of 100 mg .
In an additional study , negligible amounts of labeled material were found in plasma , urine , and expired CO 2 after 3 days of treatment with topically applied 14 C - labeled fluorouracil .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Fluorouracil Cream USP is recommended for the topical treatment of multiple actinic or solar keratoses .
In the 5 % strength , it is also useful in the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinomas when conventional methods are impractical , such as with multiple lesions or difficult treatment sites .
Safety and efficacy in other indications have not been established .
The diagnosis should be established prior to treatment , since this method has not been proven effective in other types of basal cell carcinomas .
With isolated , easily accessible basal cell carcinomas , surgery is preferred since success with such lesions is almost 100 % .
The success rate with Fluorouracil Cream USP is approximately 93 % , based on 113 lesions in 54 patients .
Eighty - eight lesions treated with the cream produced 7 failures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Fluorouracil cream may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with either the topical or the parenteral forms of fluorouracil .
One birth defect ( cleft lip and palate ) has been reported in the newborn of a patient using fluorouracil cream as recommended .
One birth defect ( ventricular septal defect ) and cases of miscarriage have been reported when fluorouracil cream was applied to mucous membrane areas .
Multiple birth defects have been reported in a fetus of a patient treated with intravenous fluorouracil .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with fluorouracil cream .
Fluorouracil administered parenterally has been shown to be teratogenic in mice , rats , and hamsters when given at doses equivalent to the usual human intravenous dose ; however , the amount of fluorouracil absorbed systemically after topical administration to actinic keratoses is minimal ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Fluorouracil exhibited maximum teratogenicity when given to mice as single intraperitoneal injections of 10 to 40 mg / kg on Day 10 or 12 of gestation .
Similarly , intraperitoneal doses of 12 to 37 mg / kg given to rats between Days 9 and 12 of gestation and intramuscular doses of 3 to 9 mg / kg given to hamsters between Days 8 and 11 of gestation were teratogenic and / or embryotoxic ( i . e . , resulted in increased resorptions or embryolethality ) .
In monkeys , divided doses of 40 mg / kg given between Days 20 and 24 of gestation were not teratogenic .
Doses higher than 40 mg / kg resulted in abortion .
Fluorouracil cream should not be used in patients with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) enzyme deficiency .
A large percentage of fluorouracil is catabolized by the DPD enzyme .
DPD enzyme deficiency can result in shunting of fluorouracil to the anabolic pathway , leading to cytotoxic activity and potential toxicities .
Fluorouracil cream is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant during therapy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while using this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Fluorouracil cream is also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : Application to mucous membranes should be avoided due to the possibility of local inflammation and ulceration .
Additionally , cases of miscarriage and a birth defect ( ventricular septal defect ) have been reported when fluorouracil cream was applied to mucous membrane areas during pregnancy .
Occlusion of the skin with resultant hydration has been shown to increase percutaneous penetration of several topical preparations .
If any occlusive dressing is used in treatment of basal cell carcinoma , there may be an increase in the severity of inflammatory reactions in the adjacent normal skin .
A porous gauze dressing may be applied for cosmetic reasons without increase in reaction .
Exposure to ultraviolet rays should be minimized during and immediately following treatment with fluorouracil cream because the intensity of the reaction may be increased .
Patients should discontinue therapy with fluorouracil cream if symptoms of DPD enzyme deficiency develop ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Rarely , life - threatening toxicities such as stomatitis , diarrhea , neutropenia , and neurotoxicity have been reported with intravenous administration of fluorouracil in patients with DPD enzyme deficiency .
One case of life - threatening systemic toxicity has been reported with the topical use of fluorouracil cream in a patient with DPD enzyme deficiency .
Symptoms included severe abdominal pain , bloody diarrhea , vomiting , fever , and chills .
Physical examination revealed stomatitis , erythematous skin rash , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , inflammation of the esophagus , stomach , and small bowel .
Although this case was observed with 5 % fluorouracil cream , it is unknown whether patients with profound DPD enzyme deficiency would develop systemic toxicity with lower concentrations of topically applied fluorouracil .
PRECAUTIONS : General : There is a possibility of increased absorption through ulcerated or inflamed skin .
Information for Patients : Patients should be forewarned that the reaction in the treated areas may be unsightly during therapy and , usually , for several weeks following cessation of therapy .
Patients should be instructed to avoid exposure to ultraviolet rays during and immediately following treatment with fluorouracil cream because the intensity of the reaction may be increased .
If fluorouracil cream is applied with the fingers , the hands should be washed immediately afterward .
Fluorouracil cream should not be applied on the eyelids or directly into the eyes , nose , or mouth because irritation may occur .
Fluorouracil , including Fluorouracil cream may be fatal if ingested by pets .
Avoid allowing pets to contact the Fluorouracil cream container or the skin where Fluorouracil cream has been applied .
Store Fluorouracil cream out of reach of pets .
Safely discard or clean any cloth or applicator that may retain Fluorouracil cream and avoid leaving any residues of Fluorouracil cream on your hands , clothing , carpeting or furniture .
Laboratory Tests : Solar keratoses which do not respond should be biopsied to confirm the diagnosis .
Follow - up biopsies should be performed as indicated in the management of superficial basal cell carcinoma .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Adequate long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been conducted with fluorouracil .
Studies with the active ingredient of fluorouracil cream , 5 - fluorouracil , have shown positive effects in in vitro tests for mutagenicity and on impairment of fertility .
5 - Fluorouracil was positive in three in vitro cell neoplastic transformation assays .
In the C3H / 10 T ½ clone 8 mouse embryo cell system , the resulting morphologically transformed cells formed tumors when inoculated into immunosuppressed syngeneic mice .
While no evidence for mutagenic activity was observed in the Ames test ( three studies ) , fluorouracil has been shown to be mutagenic in the survival count rec - assay with Bacillus subtilis and in the Drosophila wing - hair spot test .
Fluorouracil produced petite mutations in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and was positive in the micronucleus test ( bone marrow cells of male mice ) .
Fluorouracil was clastogenic in vitro ( i . e . , chromatid gaps , breaks , and exchanges ) in Chinese hamster fibroblasts at concentrations of 1 . 0 and 2 . 0 mcg / mL and has been shown to increase sister chromatid exchange in vitro in human lymphocytes .
In addition , 5 - fluorouracil has been reported to produce an increase in numerical and structural chromosome aberrations in peripheral lymphocytes of patients treated with this product .
Doses of 125 to 250 mg / kg , administered intraperitoneally , have been shown to induce chromosomal aberrations and changes in chromosome organization of spermatogonia in rats .
Spermatogonial differentiation was also inhibited by fluorouracil , resulting in transient infertility .
However , in studies with a strain of mouse which is sensitive to the induction of sperm head abnormalities after exposure to a range of chemical mutagens and carcinogens , fluorouracil was inactive at oral doses of 5 to 80 mg / kg / day .
In female rats , fluorouracil administered intraperitoneally at doses of 25 and 50 mg / kg during the preovulatory phase of oogenesis significantly reduced the incidence of fertile matings , delayed the development of preimplantation and postimplantation embryos , increased the incidence of preimplantation lethality and induced chromosomal anomalies in these embryos .
Single - dose intravenous and intraperitoneal injections of 5 - fluorouracil have been reported to kill differentiated spermatogonia and spermatocytes ( at 500 mg / kg ) and to produce abnormalities in spermatids ( at 50 mg / kg ) in mice .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether fluorouracil cream is excreted in human milk .
Because there is some systemic absorption of fluorouracil after topical administration ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue use of the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions to fluorouracil cream occur locally and are often related to an extension of the pharmacological activity of the drug .
These include burning , crusting , allergic contact dermatitis , pruritus , scarring , rash , soreness , and ulceration .
Ulcerations , other local reactions , cases of miscarriage , and a birth defect ( ventricular septal defect ) have been reported when fluorouracil cream was applied to mucous membrane areas .
Leukocytosis is the most frequent hematological side effect .
Although a causal relationship is remote , other adverse reactions which have been reported infrequently are : Central Nervous System : Emotional upset , insomnia , irritability .
Gastrointestinal : Medicinal taste , stomatitis .
Hematological : Eosinophilia , thrombocytopenia , toxic granulation .
Integumentary : Alopecia , blistering , bullous pemphigoid , discomfort , ichthyosis , scaling , suppuration , swelling , telangiectasia , tenderness , urticaria , skin rash .
Special Senses : Conjunctival reaction , corneal reaction , lacrimation , nasal irritation .
Miscellaneous : Herpes simplex .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Accord Healthcare Inc . at 1 - 866 - 941 - 7875 and / or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : There have been no reports of overdosage with fluorouracil cream .
The oral LD 50 for the 5 % topical cream was 234 mg / kg in rats and 39 mg / kg in dogs .
These doses represented 11 . 7 and 1 . 95 mg / kg of fluorouracil , respectively .
The topical application of the 5 % cream to rats yielded an LD 50 of greater than 500 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : When Fluorouracil Cream USP is applied to a lesion , a response occurs with the following sequence : erythema , usually followed by vesiculation , desquamation , erosion , and re - epithelialization .
Fluorouracil Cream USP should be applied preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove .
If Fluorouracil Cream USP is applied with the fingers , the hands should be washed immediately afterward .
Actinic or Solar Keratosis : Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions .
Medication should be continued until the inflammatory response reaches the erosion stage , at which time use of the drug should be terminated .
The usual duration of therapy is from 2 to 4 weeks .
Complete healing of the lesions may not be evident for 1 to 2 months following cessation of Fluorouracil Cream USP therapy .
Superficial Basal Cell Carcinomas : Only the 5 % strength is recommended .
Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions .
Treatment should be continued for at least 3 to 6 weeks .
Therapy may be required for as long as 10 to 12 weeks before the lesions are obliterated .
As in any neoplastic condition , the patient should be followed for a reasonable period of time to determine if a cure has been obtained .
HOW SUPPLIED : Fluorouracil Cream USP is available in 40 g tubes containing 5 % fluorouracil ( NDC 16729 - 542 - 35 ) in a vanishing cream base consisting of methylparaben , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearyl alcohol , and white petrolatum .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Preserve in tight containers .
Manufactured for : Accord Healthcare , Inc . , 1009 , Slater Road , Suite 210 - B , Durham , NC 27703 , USA .
Manufactured by : Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited , Plot No . : 457 , 458 , Village - Matoda , Bavla Road , Ta .
- Sanand , Dist .
- Ahmedabad – 382 210 , INDIA .
Issued : September 2022 10 4441 2 6019483 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 g tube Carton NDC 16729 - 542 - 35 Rx only Fluorouracil Cream USP , 5 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Net Wt .
40 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 g tube Label NDC 16729 - 542 - 35 Rx only Fluorouracil Cream USP , 5 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE TO OPEN : Remove cap and puncture seal with point on cap .
Apply preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove .
Net Wt .
40 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
