Active ingredient : Benzoyl Peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne Medication Uses • for the management of acne • dries up acne pimples • helps prevent new acne pimples Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information • store at 59 ° to 86 ° F • expiration date on tube crimp Inactive ingredients aesculus hippocastanum ( horse chestnut ) seed extract , butylene glycol , carbomer , cucumis sativus ( cucumber ) fruit extract , diethylhexyl sodium sulfosuccinate , disodium EDTA , echinacea purpurea extract , glycerin , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , silica , sodium hydroxide , water Principal Display Panel - 28 g carton clearproof acne treatment gel acne medication 5 % benzoyl peroxide 1 OZ .
NET WT .
/ 28 g Mary Kay [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
