DESCRIPTION Carbinoxamine maleate is a histamine - H 1 receptor blocking agent .
Each tablet contains 4 mg carbinoxamine maleate and the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
Each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) of oral solution contains 4 mg carbinoxamine maleate and the following inactive ingredients : artificial bubble gum flavor , citric acid ( anhydrous ) , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate ( hydrous ) and sorbitol solution .
Carbinoxamine maleate is freely soluble in water .
Its structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 - [ ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - 2 - pyridinylmethoxy ] - N , N - dimethylethanamine ( Z ) - 2 - butenedioate ( 1 : 1 ) C 16 H 19 CIN 2 O ∙ C 4 H 4 O 4 MW = 406 . 86 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Carbinoxamine maleate , an ethanolamine derivative , is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative properties .
Carbinoxamine appears to compete with histamine ( type H1 ) for receptor sites on effector cells in the gastrointestinal tract , blood vessels and respiratory tract .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Carbinoxamine is well absorbed from the GI tract and appears to be extensively metabolized by the liver , and excreted in the urine as inactive metabolites within 24 hours .
Virtually no intact drug is extended in the urine .
In a study comparing a controlled - release suspension and a solution of carbinoxamine , healthy volunteers were administered a single dose of 8 mg carbinoxamine .
A time to maximum concentration ( Tmax ) was between 1 . 5 hours to 5 hours , a peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of about 24 ng / mL was observed and extent of exposure ( AUC ) was about 286 ng hr / mL .
The serum half - life is reported to be 10 to 20 hours .
Drug / Food Interactions Carbinoxamine should not be used in patients with hypersensitivity to carbinoxamine .
Carbinoxamine may increase the effects of other drugs such as barbiturates , TCAs , MAO inhibitors such as Phenelzine ( Nardil ) , Tranylcypromine ( Parnate ) , or Selegiline ( Eldepryl ) , alcohol , other antihistamines , and CNS depressants .
Carbinoxamine can be taken with or without food .
Cardiovascular Effects Cardiac effects , including prolongation of QT interval have not been adequately studied .
Unlike other newer antihistamines , severe adverse cardiovascular effects are uncommon , and usually limited to over dosage situations .
Special Populations Pediatric Patients Carbinoxamine should not be used in newborn or premature infants .
Neonates have an increased susceptibility to anticholinergic side effects , such as CNS excitation , which may lead to convulsions .
Pregnancy and Lactation Safe use of carbinoxamine during pregnancy has not been established .
Therefore , carbinoxamine should not be used in women who are , or may become pregnant .
Carbinoxamine is in the FDA pregnancy Category C . Women who are breast - feeding should avoid use of carbinoxamine , since small amounts appear to be distributed into breast milk .
Geriatric Patients Carbinoxamine is more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
The incidence of adverse reactions is higher in the elderly ; therefore , a dosing adjustment may be necessary in this sub - population .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carbinoxamine maleate is effective for the symptomatic treatment of : Seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis .
Vasomotor rhinitis .
Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods .
Mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema .
Dermatographism .
As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled .
Amelioration of the severity of allergic reactions to blood or plasma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age .
Carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or on monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy .
( See Drug Interactions section ) .
WARNINGS Deaths have been reported in children less than 2 years of age who were taking antihistamines , including carbinoxamine - containing drug products , therefore , carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with : narrow angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , bladder neck obstruction , pyloroduodenal obstruction .
PRECAUTIONS General As many other antihistamines , carbinoxamine maleate has an atropine - like action and , therefore , should be used with caution in patients with : increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , hypertension .
Antihistamines such as carbinoxamine maleate should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract symptoms , including asthma .
Information for Patients Carbinoxamine maleate may cause drowsiness ; alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect .
Avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this product .
Do not take this product if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers , without first consulting your doctor .
Use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Drug Interactions Monoamine oxidase inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
Carbinoxamine maleate has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to determine the possible effects of carbinoxamine maleate on carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with carbinoxamine maleate .
It is also not known whether carbinoxamine maleate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Carbinoxamine maleate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular , use of carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in nursing mothers ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) .
Pediatric Use Carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Neonates have an increased susceptibility to anticholinergic side effects , such as CNS excitation , which may lead to convulsions .
Carbinoxamine maleate may diminish mental alertness in children .
In the young child , particularly , they may produce excitation .
Geriatric Use Carbixonaxime maleate is more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients ( approximately 60 years or older ) .
Sedating drugs may also cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly .
Therefore , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are underlined : Body as a Whole : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose and throat .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
Hematologic : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Central Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , hysteria , neuritis , convulsions .
Gastrointestinal : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
Urogenital : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
Respiratory : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations : Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in children .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms - dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
Especially in infants and children , antihistamine overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death .
The oral LD 50 of carbinoxamine maleate in guinea pigs is 411 mg / kg .
Treatement : The treatment of overdosage with carbinoxamine maleate is essentially symptomatic and supportive .
Vital signs ( including respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and temperature ) and EKG should be monitored .
Induction of vomiting is not recommended .
Activated charcoal should be given and gastric lavage should be considered after ingestion of a potentially life - threatening amount of drug .
In the presence of severe anticholinergic effects , physostigmine may be useful .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Carbinoxamine maleate should be taken on an empty stomach with water .
DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Carbinoxamine maleate dosage should be based on the severity of the condition and the response of the patient .
The drug is well tolerated in adults in doses as high as 24 mg daily , in divided doses , over prolonged periods .
On the other hand , some patients respond to as little as 4 mg daily .
Clinical experience suggests the following dosage schedules : Tablets Usual Adult Dosage : 1 or 2 tablets ( 4 to 8 mg ) 3 to 4 times daily Usual Child ’ s Dosage : Six to eleven years – 1 / 2 to 1 tablet ( 2 to 4 mg ) 3 to 4 times daily .
Oral Solution Usual Adult Dosage : 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls ( 4 to 8 mg ) 3 to 4 times daily Usual Child ' s Dosage ( approximately 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 mg / kg / day , divided into 3 to 4 doses ) : Six to eleven years - ½ to 1 teaspoonful ( 2 to 4 mg ) 3 to 4 times daily .
Dosing for children 2 to 5 years of age should be based on weight whenever possible .
The usual dosage for children 2 to 5 years of age is approximately 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 mg / kg / day , divided into 3 to 4 daily doses .
In general , this corresponds to a dose of 1 / 4 to 1 / 2 teaspoonful ( 1 to 2 mg ) 3 to 4 times daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Carbinoxamine Maleate Tablets , USP 4 mg are supplied as white , round , scored tablets , debossed “ 109 ” on one side and score over “ C ” on the other side , and is supplied in bottles of 100 tablets , NDC 51991 - 333 - 01 .
Carbinoxamine Maleate Oral Solution , 4 mg / 5 mL is supplied as clear , colorless liquid with a bubble gum aroma , and is supplied in 4 fl .
oz .
bottles , NDC 51991 - 334 - 04 .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure as defined in the official compendium .
Distributed by : Breckenridge Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Berlin , CT 06037 Manufactured by : MIKART , LLC Atlanta , GA 30318 Code 838F00 Rev . 05 / 19 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 COUNT BOTTLE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 FL OZ BOTTLE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
