1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ONCASPAR is an asparagine specific enzyme indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for treatment of pediatric and adult patients with : • First - line acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( 1 . 1 ) • Acute lymphoblastic leukemia and hypersensitivity to asparaginase ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 First Line Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ( ALL ) ONCASPAR ® is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the first - line treatment of pediatric and adult patients with ALL .
1 . 2 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia and Hypersensitivity to Asparaginase ONCASPAR is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with ALL and hypersensitivity to native forms of L - asparaginase .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administered intramuscularly or intravenously no more frequently than every 14 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Patients ages 21 years and younger : 2 , 500 International Units / m2 .
( 2 . 1 ) • Patients ages over 21 years : 2 , 000 International Units / m2 .
( 2 . 1 ) • For intramuscular administration , limit the volume at a single injection site to 2 mL ; if greater than 2 mL , use multiple injection sites .
( 2 . 3 ) • For intravenous administration , give over a period of 1 to 2 hours in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP through an infusion that is already running .
( 2 . 3 ) • Do not administer ONCASPAR if drug has been frozen , stored at room temperature for more than 48 hours , or shaken or vigorously agitated .
( 16 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Patients 21 Years of Age or Younger The recommended dose of ONCASPAR for patients up to and including 21 years of age is 2 , 500 International Units / m2 intramuscularly or intravenously no more frequently than every 14 days .
Patients More Than 21 Years of Age The recommended dose of ONCASPAR for adult patients more than 21 years of age is 2 , 000 International Units / m2 intramuscularly or intravenously no more frequently than every 14 days .
2 . 2 Recommended Premedication Premedicate patients with acetaminophen , an H - 1 receptor blocker ( such as diphenhydramine ) , and an H - 2 receptor blocker ( such as famotidine ) 30 - 60 minutes prior to administration of ONCASPAR to decrease the risk and severity of both infusion and hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Recommended Monitoring and Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Monitor patients at least weekly , with bilirubin , transaminases , glucose and clinical examinations until recovery from the cycle of therapy .
If an adverse reaction should occur , modify treatment according to Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Dosage ModificationsAdverse Reaction Severity [ 1 ] Action Infusion Reaction / Hypersensitivity Reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 1 • Reduce the infusion rate by 50 % Grade 2 • Interrupt the infusion of ONCASPAR • Treat the symptoms • When symptoms resolve , resume the infusion and reduce the infusion rate by 50 % Grade 3 to 4 • Discontinue ONCASPAR permanently Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Uncomplicated deep vein thrombosis • Hold ONCASPAR • Treat with appropriate antithrombotic therapy • Upon resolution of symptoms consider resuming ONCASPAR , while continuing antithrombotic therapy Severe or life - threatening thrombosis • Discontinue ONCASPAR permanently • Treat with appropriate antithrombotic therapy Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Grades 3 to 4 • Hold ONCASPAR for elevations in lipase or amylase > 3 × ULN until enzyme levels stabilize or are declining • Discontinue ONCASPAR permanently if clinical pancreatitis is confirmed Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Grade 3 to 4 • Hold ONCASPAR • Evaluate for coagulopathy and consider clotting factor replacement as needed • Resume ONCASPAR with the next scheduled dose if bleeding is controlled Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Total bilirubin more than 3 times to no more than 10 times the ULN • Hold ONCASPAR until total bilirubin is ≤ 1 . 5 times the ULN Total bilirubin more than 10 times the ULN • Discontinue ONCASPAR and do not make up for missed doses [ 1 ] Grade 1 is mild , grade 2 is moderate , grade 3 is severe , and grade 4 is life - threatening .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Administer ONCASPAR in a healthcare setting with appropriate medical support and resuscitation equipment to manage hypersensitivity reactions , should they occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
ONCASPAR is a clear and colorless solution .
Visually inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter , cloudiness , or discoloration prior to administration .
If any of these are present , discard the vial .
When ONCASPAR is administered intramuscularly : • Limit the volume at a single injection site to 2 mL .
• If the volume to be administered is greater than 2 mL , use multiple injection sites .
When ONCASPAR is administered intravenously : • Dilute ONCASPAR with 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , using aseptic technique .
• After dilution , administer immediately into a running infusion of either 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , respectively .
• Administer over a period of 1 - 2 hours .
• Do not infuse other drugs through the same intravenous line during administration of ONCASPAR .
• The diluted solution should be used immediately .
If immediate use is not possible , the diluted solution should be stored refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 48 hours .
Protect infusion bags from direct sunlight .
ONCASPAR does not contain a preservative .
Use only one dose per vial ; discard unused product .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 3 , 750 International Units / 5 mL ( 750 International Units / mL ) clear , colorless solution in a single - dose vial .
• Injection : 3 , 750 International Units / 5 mL ( 750 International Units / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ONCASPAR is contraindicated in patients with a : • History of serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , to ONCASPAR or to any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• History of serious thrombosis with prior L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• History of pancreatitis , including pancreatitis related to prior L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• History of serious hemorrhagic events with prior L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Severe hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• History of serious hypersensitivity reactions to ONCASPAR .
( 4 ) • History of serious thrombosis with prior L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • History of pancreatitis with prior L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • History of serious hemorrhagic events with prior L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Anaphylaxis or serious hypersensitivity reactions : Observe patients for 1 hour after administration .
Discontinue ONCASPAR in patients with serious hypersensitivity reactions .
( 5 . 1 ) • Thrombosis : Discontinue ONCASPAR in patients with serious thrombotic events .
( 5 . 2 ) • Pancreatitis : Evaluate patients with abdominal pain for pancreatitis .
Discontinue ONCASPAR in patients with pancreatitis .
( 5 . 3 ) • Glucose intolerance : Monitor serum glucose .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hemorrhage : Discontinue ONCASPAR for severe or life - threatening hemorrhage .
Evaluate for etiology and treat .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor for toxicity through recovery from cycle .
Discontinue ONCASPAR for severe liver toxicity .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis and Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylaxis and serious hypersensitivity reactions can occur in patients receiving ONCASPAR .
The risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions is higher in patients with known hypersensitivity to ( E . ) coli derived L - asparaginase formulations .
Other hypersensitivity reactions can include angioedema , lip swelling , eye swelling , erythema , blood pressure decreased , bronchospasm , dyspnea , pruritus , and rash [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Premedicate patients 30 - 60 minutes prior to administration of ONCASPAR .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Observe patients for 1 hour after administration of ONCASPAR in a setting with resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to treat anaphylaxis ( for example , epinephrine , oxygen , intravenous steroids , antihistamines ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Discontinue ONCASPAR in patients with serious hypersensitivity reactions .
5 . 2 Thrombosis Serious thrombotic events , including sagittal sinus thrombosis can occur in patients receiving ONCASPAR [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Discontinue ONCASPAR in patients with serious thrombotic events [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Pancreatitis Pancreatitis can occur in patients receiving ONCASPAR .
Hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis with fatal outcomes have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis , which , if left untreated , could be fatal .
Assess serum amylase and / or lipase levels to confirm early signs of pancreatic inflammation .
Discontinue ONCASPAR in patients where pancreatitis is suspected .
If pancreatitis is confirmed , do not resume ONCASPAR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Glucose Intolerance Glucose intolerance can occur in patients receiving ONCASPAR [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In some cases , glucose intolerance is irreversible .
Monitor serum glucose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hemorrhage Increased prothrombin time , increased partial thromboplastin time , and hypofibrinogenemia can occur in patients receiving ONCASPAR [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of hemorrhage with coagulation parameters including PT , PTT , fibrinogen .
Consider appropriate replacement therapy in patients with severe or symptomatic coagulopathy .
Discontinue ONCASPAR for severe or life - threatening hemorrhage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and abnormal liver function , including elevations of transaminase , elevations of bilirubin ( direct and indirect ) , reduced serum albumin , and reduced plasma fibrinogen can occur .
Evaluate bilirubin and transaminases at least weekly during cycles of treatment that include ONCASPAR through at least 6 weeks after the last dose of ONCASPAR .
In the event of serious liver toxicity , discontinue treatment with ONCASPAR and provide supportive care [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Anaphylaxis and serious hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Glucose intolerance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The most common ( > 5 % ) grade > 3 adverse reactions with ONCASPAR are hypoalbuminemia , elevated transaminase , febrile neutropenia , hypertriglyceridemia , hyperglycemia , bilirubin increased , pancreatitis , abnormal clotting studies , embolic and thrombotic events , hypersensitivity , sepsis , and infections .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Servier Pharmaceuticals , at 1 - 800 - 807 - 6124 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical trials and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The most common grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions ( > 5 % ) included : hypoalbuminemia , elevated transaminase , febrile neutropenia , hypertriglyceridemia , hyperglycemia , bilirubin increased , pancreatitis , abnormal clotting studies , embolic and thrombotic events , hypersensitivity , sepsis , and infections .
First - Line Treatment of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ( ALL ) Study CCG - 1962 was a randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , active controlled study that enrolled 118 patients , with a median age of 4 . 7 years ( 1 . 1 - 9 . 9 years ) , of whom 54 % were males and 65 % White , 14 % Hispanic , 8 % Black , 8 % Asian , and 6 % other race .
Of the 59 patients in Study 1 who were randomized to ONCASPAR , 48 patients ( 81 % ) received all 3 planned doses of ONCASPAR , 6 ( 10 % ) received 2 doses , 4 ( 7 % ) received 1 dose , and 1 patient ( 2 % ) did not receive the assigned treatment .
In Study CCG - 1962 , detailed safety information was collected for pre - specified adverse reactions identified as asparaginase induced adverse reactions and for grade 3 and 4 nonhematologic adverse reactions according to the Children ' s Cancer Group ( CCG ) Toxicity and Complication Criteria .
The per - patient incidence , by treatment arm , for these selected adverse reactions occurring at a severity of grade 3 or 4 are presented in Table 2 : Table 2 .
Incidence of Selected Grades 3 and 4 Adverse Reactions in Study CCG - 1962 ONCASPAR ( n = 58 ) Native E . coli L - Asparaginase ( n = 59 ) Infection 3 ( 5 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) Abnormal Liver Tests 3 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) Elevated Transaminases [ 1 ] 2 ( 3 % ) 4 ( 7 % ) Hyperbilirubinemia 1 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Hyperglycemia 3 ( 5 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Central Nervous System Thrombosis 2 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Coagulopathy [ 2 ] 1 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) Pancreatitis 1 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Allergic Reactions to Asparaginase 1 ( 2 % ) 0 [ 1 ] Aspartate aminotransferase , alanine aminotransferase .
[ 2 ] Prolonged prothrombin time or partial thromboplastin time ; or hypofibrinogenemia .
The safety of ONCASPAR was investigated in Study DFCI 11 - 001 , an open label , randomized , active - controlled multicenter clinical trial that included 119 children and adolescents with newly diagnosed ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma treated with ONCASPAR in combination with the Dana Farber Cancer Institute ( DFCI ) ALL Consortium backbone therapy .
The median age on enrollment was 4 years ( range , 1 - 18 years ) .
The majority of patients were male ( 60 % ) and white ( 75 % ) .
Most patients were considered standard risk ALL ( 59 % ) and had B - cell lineage ALL ( 87 % ) .
The median number of doses of ONCASPAR during the study was 16 doses ( one dose during induction therapy then administered every two weeks during post induction therapy ) .
The median duration of exposure to ONCASPAR was 8 months .
Table 3 summarizes the incidence of selected Grades ≥ 3 adverse reactions that occurred in 2 or more patients receiving ONCASPAR .
Because not all grade 1 and 2 adverse reactions were collected prospectively , only grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Incidence of Selected Grades ≥ 3 Adverse Reactions in Patients Receiving ONCASPAR With Multi - Agent Chemotherapy in Study DFCI 11 - 001 Adverse Reaction [ 1 ] ONCASPAR 2500 IU / m2 N = 119 Grade ≥ 3 [ 2 ] n ( % ) Elevated transaminase null 79 ( 66 ) Febrile neutropenia 48 ( 40 ) Hypertriglyceridemia 36 ( 30 ) Hypoalbuminemia 33 ( 28 ) Bilirubin increased null 30 ( 25 ) Hyperglycemia 29 ( 24 ) Pancreatitis null 29 ( 24 ) Abnormal clotting studies null 25 ( 21 ) Embolic and thrombotic events null 10 ( 8 ) Hypersensitivity null 8 ( 7 ) Pneumonia null 8 ( 7 ) Sepsis null 7 ( 6 ) Diarrhea null 6 ( 5 ) Hemorrhages null 5 ( 4 ) Fungal Infection null 3 ( 3 ) [ 1 ] Grouped terms : Elevated transaminase : Alanine aminotransferase increased , Aspartate aminotransferase increased ; Transaminases increased ; Bilirubin increased : Bilirubin conjugated increased , Blood bilirubin increased ; Pancreatitis : Amylase increased , Lipase increased , Pancreatic necrosis , Pancreatitis , Pancreatitis relapsing ; Abnormal clotting studies : Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged , Blood fibrinogen decreased ; Embolic and thrombotic events : Embolism , Pulmonary embolism , Thrombosis in device , Venous thrombosis , Venous thrombosis limb ; Hypersensitivity : Hypersensitivity , Anaphylactic reaction , Drug hypersensitivity ; Pneumonia : Lung infection , Pneumonia , Pneumonitis ; Sepsis : Bacterial sepsis , Sepsis ; Diarrhea : Colitis , Diarrhea , Enterocolitis , Neutropenic colitis ; Hemorrhages SMQ ( excludes laboratory terms ) : Disseminated intravascular coagulation , Epistaxis , Hematoma , Hemorrhage intracranial , Melena , Esophageal ulcer hemorrhage , Small intestinal hemorrhage , Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage ; Fungal infection : Fungal infection , Hepatic infection fungal , Respiratory tract infection fungal , Splenic infection fungal , Systemic candida .
[ 2 ] Grading is based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) v4 . 0 .
Previously Treated ALL Adverse reaction information was obtained from 5 clinical trials that enrolled a total of 174 patients with relapsed ALL who received ONCASPAR as a single agent or in combination with multi - agent chemotherapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The toxicity profile of ONCASPAR in patients with previously treated relapsed ALL is similar to that reported above with the exception of clinical allergic reactions ( see Table 3 ) .
The most common adverse reactions of ONCASPAR were clinical allergic reactions , elevated transaminases , hyperbilirubinemia , and coagulopathies .
The most common serious adverse events due to ONCASPAR treatment were thrombosis ( 4 % ) , hyperglycemia requiring insulin therapy ( 3 % ) , and pancreatitis ( 1 % ) .
Allergic Reactions Allergic reactions include the following : bronchospasm , hypotension , laryngeal edema , local erythema or swelling , systemic rash , and urticaria .
Among 58 ONCASPAR - treated patients enrolled in Study CCG - 1962 , clinical allergic reactions were reported in 2 patients ( 3 % ) .
One patient experienced a grade 1 allergic reaction and the other grade 3 hives ; both occurred during the first delayed intensification phase of the study ( see Table 4 ) .
Among 62 patients with relapsed ALL and prior hypersensitivity reactions to asparaginase , 35 patients ( 56 % ) had a history of clinical allergic reactions to native Escherichia ( E . ) coli L - asparaginase , and 27 patients ( 44 % ) had a history of clinical allergic reactions to both native E . coli and native Erwinia L - asparaginase .
Twenty ( 32 % ) of these 62 patients experienced clinical allergic reactions to ONCASPAR ( see Table 4 ) .
Among 112 patients with relapsed ALL with no prior hypersensitivity reactions to asparaginase , 11 patients ( 10 % ) experienced clinical allergic reactions to ONCASPAR ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 .
Incidence of Clinical Allergic Reactions , Overall and by Severity GradePatient Status Toxicity Grade , n ( % ) Total 1 2 3 4 Previously Hypersensitive Patients ( n = 62 ) 7 ( 11 ) 8 ( 13 ) 4 ( 6 ) 1 ( 2 ) 20 ( 32 ) Non - Hypersensitive Patients ( n = 112 ) 5 ( 4 ) 4 ( 4 ) 1 ( 1 ) 1 ( 1 ) 11 ( 10 ) First Line ( n = 58 ) 1 ( 2 ) 0 1 ( 2 ) 0 2 ( 3 ) 6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other asparaginase products may be misleading .
In Study CCG - 1962 , ONCASPAR treated patients were assessed for evidence of binding antibodies using an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) method .
The incidence of protocol - specified " high - titer " antibody formation was 2 % in Induction ( n = 48 ) , 10 % in Delayed Intensification 1 ( n = 50 ) , and 11 % in Delayed Intensification 2 ( n = 44 ) .
In study CCG - 1962 , there is insufficient information to determine whether the development of antibodies is associated with an increased risk of clinical allergic reactions or altered pharmacokinetics ( i . e . , loss of asparaginase activity ) .
In Study DFCI 11 - 001 , of the 100 evaluable patients treated with ONCASPAR , 19 ( 19 % ) patients developed anti - drug antibodies ( ADA ) during treatment ; 18 of these 19 patients were positive for anti - PEG antibodies .
The presence of ADA correlated with the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions .
There is insufficient information to determine whether the development of antibodies is associated with altered pharmacokinetics ( i . e . , loss of asparaginase activity ) .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ONCASPAR .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Coagulopathy .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Hepatic impairment , pancreatic cyst , pancreatitis .
Immune system disorders : Anaphylactic shock , hypersensitivity reaction .
Investigations : Blood cholesterol increased .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Hyperglycemia , hyperammonemia .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Osteonecrosis .
Vascular disorders : Hemorrhage including central nervous system hemorrhage , thrombosis including superior sagittal sinus thrombosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Glucocorticoids Pegaspargase may increase the risk of glucocorticoid - induced toxicities , including osteonecrosis , through a potential increase in exposure of dexamethasone [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk summary Based on published literature studies with L - asparaginase in pregnant animals , ONCASPAR can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on ONCASPAR use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Published literature studies in pregnant animals suggest asparagine depletion may cause harm to the animal offspring ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with ONCASPAR to evaluate its effect on reproduction and fetal development .
Published literature studies in which pregnant rabbits were administered L - asparaginase or pregnant rats were deprived of dietary asparagine suggested harm to the animal offspring .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary There are no data on the presence of pegaspargase in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ONCASPAR and for 1 month after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ONCASPAR can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Pregnancy testing is recommended in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ONCASPAR .
Contraception Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraceptive methods during treatment with ONCASPAR and for 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ONCASPAR in the treatment of ALL have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of ONCASPAR in these age groups is supported by evidence of efficacy as first - line treatment from one adequate and well - controlled trial , and evidence of efficacy for treatment of patients with hypersensitivity to asparaginase from four adequate and well - controlled trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] , and safety data from 7 total trials .
The pediatric patients treated with ONCASPAR 2 , 500 International Units / m2 on these trials included 26 infants ( 1 month to < 2 years old ) , 165 children ( 2 years to < 12 years old ) , and 39 adolescents ( 12 to 17 years old ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ONCASPAR did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE Three patients received 10 , 000 International Units / m2 of ONCASPAR as an intravenous infusion .
One patient experienced a slight increase in liver enzymes .
A second patient developed a rash 10 minutes after the start of the infusion , which was controlled with the administration of an antihistamine and by slowing down the infusion rate .
A third patient did not experience any adverse reactions .
There is no specific antidote for ONCASPAR overdosage .
In case of overdose , monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of adverse reactions , and appropriately manage with symptomatic and supportive treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Pegaspargase is a conjugate of monomethoxypolyethylene glycol ( mPEG ) and L - asparaginase ( L - asparagine amidohydrolase ) , an asparagine specific enzyme .
L - asparaginase is a tetrameric enzyme that is produced endogenously by E . coli and consists of identical 34 . 5 kDa subunits .
Approximately 69 to 82 molecules of mPEG are linked to L - asparaginase ; the molecular weight of each mPEG molecule is about 5 kDa .
ONCASPAR activity is expressed in International Units .
ONCASPAR ( pegaspargase ) injection is supplied as a clear , colorless , preservative - free , isotonic sterile solution in phosphate - buffered saline , pH 7 . 3 , for intramuscular use or for dilution prior to intravenous infusion .
Each vial of ONCASPAR contains 3 , 750 International Units of pegaspargase in 5 mL of solution .
Each milliliter contains 750 International Units of pegaspargase , dibasic sodium phosphate , USP ( 5 . 58 mg ) , monobasic sodium phosphate , USP ( 1 . 20 mg ) , and Sodium Chloride , USP ( 8 . 50 mg ) in Water for Injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action L - asparaginase is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the amino acid L - asparagine into aspartic acid and ammonia .
The pharmacological effect of ONCASPAR is thought to be based on the killing of leukemic cells due to depletion of plasma asparagine .
Leukemic cells with low expression of asparagine synthetase have a reduced ability to synthesize asparagine , and therefore depend on an exogenous source of asparagine for survival .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamic activity was assessed through serial measurements of asparagine in sera and cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) .
In Study CCG - 1962 , pharmacodynamics were assessed in 57 newly diagnosed pediatric patients with standard - risk ALL who received three intramuscular doses of ONCASPAR ( 2 , 500 International Units / m2 ) , one each during induction and two delayed intensification treatment phases [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
In Study AALL07P4 , the pharmacodynamic response of pegaspargase was assessed in 47 evaluable patients with newly diagnosed high risk B - precursor ALL .
Asparagine concentrations in plasma ( N = 42 ) were maintained below the assay limit of quantification for at least 11 days following a single dose of ONCASPAR 2 , 500 International Units / m2 during the induction phase .
CSF asparagine concentration was decreased from a mean pretreatment concentration of 0 . 6 µg / mL ( N = 20 ) to 0 . 2 µg / mL on Day 4 ( N = 41 ) and remained decreased at 0 . 2 µg / mL ( N = 39 ) 25 days after the administration of a single dose of ONCASPAR in the induction phase .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic assessments were based on an enzymatic assay measuring asparaginase activity after intramuscular ( IM , CCG - 1962 ) and intravenous ( IV , AALL07P4 ) administration of 2 , 500 International Units / m2 in patients with ALL .
Absorption The mean maximum asparaginase activity ( Cmax ) was reached at approximately 1 IU / mL ( n = 45 - 52 ) on Day 5 after a single IM injection .
The mean half - life of absorption from the IM site was 1 . 7 days .
The relative bioavailability was 82 % following the first IM dose and 98 % following repeat dosing .
The mean Cmax and the area under the curve ( AUC0 - inf ) was 1 . 6 IU / mL and 16 . 6 IU / mL * day , respectively , after a single IV infusion ( n = 47 ) during the induction phase .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution at steady state was estimated to be 1 . 86 L / m2 after a single IM injection and approximately 2 L after a single IV infusion based on non - compartmental analysis .
Elimination The mean elimination half - life was approximately 5 . 8 days following a single IM injection and 5 . 3 days following a single IV infusion .
The clearance was 0 . 17 L / m2 / day and 0 . 2 L / day , respectively , for a single IM and IV dose .
Specific Populations The impact of renal and hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ONCASPAR is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and impairment of fertility studies have not been conducted with pegaspargase .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 First - Line Treatment of ALL Study CCG - 1962 The safety and effectiveness of ONCASPAR was evaluated in an open label , multicenter , randomized , active controlled study ( Study CCG - 1962 ) .
In this study , 118 pediatric patients aged 1 to 9 years with previously untreated standard - risk ALL were randomized 1 : 1 to ONCASPAR or native E . coli L - asparaginase as part of combination therapy .
ONCASPAR was administered intramuscularly at a dose of 2 , 500 International Units / m2 on Day 3 of the 4 week induction phase and on Day 3 of each of two 8 week delayed intensification phases .
Native E . coli L - asparaginase was administered intramuscularly at a dose of 6 , 000 International Units / m2 three times weekly for 9 doses during induction and for 6 doses during each delayed intensification phase .
The primary determination of effectiveness was based on demonstration of similar asparagine depletion ( magnitude and duration ) in the ONCASPAR and native E . coli L - asparaginase arms .
The protocol - specified goal was achievement of asparagine depletion to a serum concentration of ≤ 1 µM .
The proportion of patients with this level of depletion was similar between the 2 study arms during all 3 phases of treatment at the protocol - specified time points .
In all phases of treatment , serum asparagine concentrations decreased within 4 days of the first dose of asparaginase in the treatment phase and remained low for approximately 3 weeks for both ONCASPAR and native E . coli L - asparaginase arms .
Serum asparagine concentrations during the induction phase are shown in Figure 1 .
The patterns of serum asparagine depletion in the 2 delayed intensification phases are similar to the pattern of serum asparagine depletion in the induction phase .
Figure 1 .
Mean ( ± Standard Error ) Serum Asparagine Concentrations During Study CCG - 1962 Induction Phase [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : ONCASPAR ( 2 , 500 International Units / m2 intramuscular ) was administered on Day 3 of the 4 - week induction phase .
Native E . coli L - asparaginase ( 6 , 000 International Units / m2 intramuscular ) was administered 3 times weekly for 9 doses during induction .
CSF asparagine concentrations were determined in 50 patients during the induction phase .
CSF asparagine decreased from a mean pre - treatment concentration of 3 . 1 µM to 1 . 7 µM on Day 4 ± 1 and 1 . 5 µM at 25 ± 1 days after administration of ONCASPAR .
These findings were similar to those observed in the native E . coli L - asparaginase treatment arm .
Concentrations of asparaginase activities greater than 0 . 1 International Units / mL were observed in over 90 % of the samples from patients treated with ONCASPAR during Induction , Delayed Intensification 1 , and Delayed Intensification 2 for approximately 20 days .
While the 3 - year Event - Free Survival ( EFS ) for the ONCASPAR and native E . coli L - asparaginase study arms were similar and in the range of 80 % , Study CCG - 1962 was not designed to evaluate for differences in EFS rates .
14 . 2 Patients with ALL Hypersensitive to Asparaginase The safety and effectiveness of ONCASPAR was evaluated in 4 open label studies enrolling a total of 42 patients with multiply relapsed , acute leukemia [ 39 ( 93 % ) with ALL ] with a history of prior clinical allergic reaction to asparaginase .
Hypersensitivity to asparaginase was defined by a history of systemic rash , urticaria , bronchospasm , laryngeal edema , hypotension , or local erythema , urticaria , or swelling , greater than 2 centimeters , for at least 10 minutes following administration of any form of native E . coli L - asparaginase .
All patients received ONCASPAR at a dose of 2 , 000 or 2 , 500 International Units / m2 administered intramuscularly or intravenously every 14 days .
Patients received ONCASPAR as a single agent or in combination with multi - agent chemotherapy .
The re - induction response rate was 50 % ( 95 % confidence interval : 35 % , 65 % ) , based upon 36 % complete remissions and 14 % partial remissions .
These results were similar to the overall response rates reported for patients with ALL receiving second - line , native E . coli L - asparaginase - containing re - induction chemotherapy .
Anti - tumor activity was also observed with single - agent ONCASPAR .
Three responses ( 1 complete remission and 2 partial remissions ) were observed in 9 adult and pediatric patients with relapsed ALL and hypersensitivity to native E . coli L - asparaginase .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ONCASPAR ( pegaspargase ) injection is supplied as a sterile , clear , colorless , preservative - free solution in Type I single - dose vial containing 3 , 750 International Units of pegaspargase per 5 mL ( 750 International Units per mL ) solution ( NDC 72694 - 954 - 01 ) .
Store ONCASPAR refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not shake or freeze product .
Unopened vials may be stored at room temperature ( 15 ° C to 25 ° C [ 59 ° F to 77 ° F ] ) for no more than 48 hours .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Anaphylaxis and Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients of the possibility of serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , and to seek immediate medical care for any swellings or difficulty breathing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Thrombosis Instruct patients on the risk of thrombosis and hemorrhage and to seek immediate medical attention if they experience severe headache , arm or leg swelling , shortness of breath , or chest pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pancreatitis Instruct patients on the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis and to seek immediate medical attention if they experience severe abdominal pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Glucose Intolerance Instruct patients on the risk of hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance .
Advise patients to immediately report excessive thirst or increase in the volume or frequency of urination [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hemorrhage Advise patients to report any unusual bleeding or bruising to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for jaundice , severe nausea or vomiting , or easy bruising or bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraception during treatment with ONCASPAR and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ONCASPAR and for 1 month after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
ONCASPAR is a registered trademark of Servier IP UK LTD , a wholly owned , indirect subsidiary of Les Laboratoires Servier .
Servier and the Servier logo are trademarks of Les Laboratoires Servier .
Manufactured by : Servier Pharmaceuticals LLC , Boston , MA 02210 U . S . License No . 2125 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Vial Carton NDC 72694 - 954 - 01 ONCASPAR ® pagaspargase Injection 3750 International Units Per 5 mL ( 750 International Units Per mL ) For intravenous or intramuscular use .
Single - use vial .
Discard unused portion .
Rx ONLY SERVIER [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
