Active ingredients Lidocaine 4 % Menthol 4 % Purpose Analgesic Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • muscle strains • sprains • bruises • muscle soreness • muscle stiffness Warnings : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Packaging is not child resistant .
If put in mouth , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this box .
Do not use : • near the eyes and mucous membranes • on open wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin • at the same time as other topical analgesics • with a heating pad • on genitals • if patch pouch has been opened for 7 or more days Before use , ask a doctor if : • you are allergic to any of the listed ingredients • you are pregnant or breastfeeding • you have high blood pressure , heart disease or kidney disease • you are taking a diuretic When using patches : • wash hands thoroughly after applying or removing patch • avoid contact with eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if : • condition worsens • rash , irritation or itching develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Central right away .
Directions : Adults 18 years and older - apply patch to affected area 1 to 2 times daily or as directed by your physician .
Clean and dry affected area .
Open pouch , remove one patch and remove protective film .
Apply to affected area and leave in place for 8 to 12 hours .
Only use one patch at a time .
Do not use more than 2 patches per day .
Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use .
Not indicated for children under 18 years of age .
Avoid storing product in direct sunlight .
Protect contents from excessive moisture .
Store at 66 - 77 ° F ( 19 - 25 ° C ) Inctive ingredients Acrylic adhesive Questions : ( 310 ) 320 - 0100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
