FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION The active component of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is albuterol sulfate , USP racemic α 1 [ ( tert - Butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ' - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , a relatively selective beta 2 - adrenergic bronchodilator having the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Albuterol sulfate is the official generic name in the United States .
The World Health Organization recommended name for the drug is salbutamol sulfate .
The molecular weight of albuterol sulfate is 576 . 7 , and the empirical formula is ( C 13 H 21 NO 3 ) 2 • H 2 SO 4 .
Albuterol sulfate is a white to off - white crystalline solid .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is a pressurized metered - dose aerosol unit for oral inhalation .
It contains a microcrystalline suspension of albuterol sulfate in propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) , ethanol , and oleic acid .
Each actuation delivers 120 mcg albuterol sulfate , USP from the valve and 108 mcg albuterol sulfate , USP from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base from the mouthpiece ) .
Each canister provides 200 inhalations .
It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face .
This product does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta 2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta 2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors on bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta 2 - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % of cardiac beta - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established .
( See WARNINGS , Cardiovascular Effects section . )
Activation of beta 2 - adrenergic receptors on airway smooth muscle leads to the activation of adenylcyclase and to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
This increase of cyclic AMP leads to the activation of protein kinase A , which inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations , resulting in relaxation .
Albuterol relaxes the smooth muscles of all airways , from the trachea to the terminal bronchioles .
Albuterol acts as a functional antagonist to relax the airway irrespective of the spasmogen involved , thus protecting against all bronchoconstrictor challenges .
Increased cyclic AMP concentrations are also associated with the inhibition of release of mediators from mast cells in the airway .
Albuterol has been shown in most clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes .
Preclinical Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta 2 - agonist and methylxanthines were administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Propellant HFA - 134 a is devoid of pharmacological activity except at very high doses in animals ( 380 - 1300 times the maximum human exposure based on comparisons of AUC values ) , primarily producing ataxia , tremors , dyspnea , or salivation .
These are similar to effects produced by the structurally related chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) , which have been used extensively in metered dose inhalers .
In animals and humans , propellant HFA - 134 a was found to be rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated , with an elimination half - life of 3 to 27 minutes in animals and 5 to 7 minutes in humans .
Time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) and mean residence time are both extremely short , leading to a transient appearance of HFA - 134 a in the blood with no evidence of accumulation .
Pharmacokinetics In a single - dose bioavailability study which enrolled six healthy , male volunteers , transient low albuterol levels ( close to the lower limit of quantitation ) were observed after administration of two puffs from both Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol and a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
No formal pharmacokinetic analyses were possible for either treatment , but systemic albuterol levels appeared similar .
Clinical Trials In a 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , double - dummy , active - and placebo - controlled trial , 565 patients with asthma were evaluated for the bronchodilator efficacy of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol ( 193 patients ) in comparison to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler ( 186 patients ) and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler ( 186 patients ) .
Serial FEV 1 measurements ( shown below as percent change from test - day baseline ) demonstrated that two inhalations of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol produced significantly greater improvement in pulmonary function than placebo and produced outcomes which were clinically comparable to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
The mean time to onset of a 15 % increase in FEV 1 was 6 minutes and the mean time to peak effect was 50 to 55 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 15 % increase in FEV 1 was 3 hours .
In some patients , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
In another clinical study in adults , two inhalations of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol taken 30 minutes before exercise prevented exercise - induced bronchospasm as demonstrated by the maintenance of FEV 1 within 80 % of baseline values in the majority of patients .
In a 4 - week , randomized , open - label trial , 63 children , 4 to 11 years of age , with asthma were evaluated for the bronchodilator efficacy of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol ( 33 pediatric patients ) in comparison to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler ( 30 pediatric patients ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Serial FEV 1 measurements as percent change from test - day baseline demonstrated that two inhalations of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol produced outcomes which were clinically comparable to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
The mean time to onset of a 12 % increase in FEV 1 for Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol was 7 minutes and the mean time to peak effect was approximately 50 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 12 % increase in FEV 1 was 2 . 3 hours .
In some pediatric patients , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
In another clinical study in pediatric patients , two inhalations of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol taken 30 minutes before exercise provided comparable protection against exercise - induced bronchospasm as a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is indicated in adults and children 4 years of age and older for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm with reversible obstructive airway disease and for the prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol or any other Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol components .
WARNINGS • Paradoxical Bronchospasm : Inhaled albuterol sulfate can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister .
• Deterioration of Asthma : Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re - evaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
• Use of Anti - inflammatory Agents : The use of beta - adrenergic - agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids , to the therapeutic regimen .
• Cardiovascular Effects : Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , like other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
• Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose : Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma .
The exact cause of death is unknown , but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected .
• Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions : Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol sulfate , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema .
PRECAUTIONS General Albuterol sulfate , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen in individual patients and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Information for Patients See illustrated Patient ' s Instructions for Use .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
Patients should be given the following information : It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face .
KEEPING THE PLASTIC MOUTHPIECE CLEAN IS VERY IMPORTANT TO PREVENT MEDICATION BUILDUP AND BLOCKAGE .
THE MOUTHPIECE SHOULD BE WASHED , SHAKEN TO REMOVE EXCESS WATER , AND AIR DRIED THOROUGHLY AT LEAST ONCE A WEEK .
INHALER MAY CEASE TO DELIVER MEDICATION IF NOT PROPERLY CLEANED .
The mouthpiece should be cleaned ( with the canister removed ) by running warm water through the top and bottom for 30 seconds at least once a week .
The mouthpiece must be shaken to remove excess water , then air dried thoroughly ( such as overnight ) .
Blockage from medication buildup or improper medication delivery may result from failure to thoroughly air dry the mouthpiece .
If the mouthpiece should become blocked ( little or no medication coming out of the mouthpiece ) , the blockage may be removed by washing as described above .
If it is necessary to use the inhaler before it is completely dry , shake off excess water , replace canister , test spray twice away from face , and take the prescribed dose .
After such use , the mouthpiece should be rewashed and allowed to air dry thoroughly .
The action of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should last up to 4 to 6 hours .
Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of doses of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms become worse , and / or you need to use the product more frequently than usual , medical attention should be sought immediately .
While you are taking Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by your physician .
Common adverse effects of treatment with inhaled albuterol include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about use of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol .
Effective and safe use of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Use Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol only with the actuator supplied with the product .
Discard the canister after 200 sprays have been used .
In general , the technique for administering Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol to children is similar to that for adults .
Children should use Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol under adult supervision , as instructed by the patient ' s physician .
( See Patient ' s Instructions for Use . )
Drug Interactions • Beta - Blockers : Beta - adrenergic - receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers should be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
• Diuretics : The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
• Albuterol - Digoxin : Mean decreases of 16 % and 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear ; nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
• Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants : Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in SPRAGUE - DAWLEY ® rats , albuterol sulfate caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at the above dietary doses of 2 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis and approximately 6 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a nonselective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 1700 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis and approximately 800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in Golden Hamsters , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 225 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis and approximately 110 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or a mutation test in yeast .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 340 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Albuterol sulfate has been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice given albuterol sulfate subcutaneously showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation at a dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol sulfate was administered orally at 50 mg / kg dose ( approximately 680 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
In an inhalation reproduction study in SPRAGUE - DAWLEY rats , the albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation did not exhibit any teratogenic effects at 10 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 70 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabeled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material is transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol or albuterol sulfate in pregnant women .
Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
Because no consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Use in Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Tocolysis : Albuterol has not been approved for the management of preterm labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta 2 - agonists , including albuterol .
Nursing Mothers Plasma levels of albuterol sulfate and HFA - 134 a after inhaled therapeutic doses are very low in humans , but it is not known whether the components of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in animal studies and lack of experience with the use of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol by nursing mothers , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Caution should be exercised when albuterol sulfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatrics The safety and effectiveness of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol in pediatric patients below the age of 4 years have not been established .
Geriatrics Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol has not been studied in a geriatric population .
As with other beta 2 - agonists , special caution should be observed when using Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol in elderly patients who have concomitant cardiovascular disease that could be adversely affected by this class of drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction information concerning Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is derived from a 12 - week , double - blind , double - dummy study which compared Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler , and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler in 565 asthmatic patients .
The following table lists the incidence of all adverse events ( whether considered by the investigator drug related or unrelated to drug ) from this study which occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol treatment group and more frequently in the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol treatment group than in the placebo group .
Overall , the incidence and nature of the adverse reactions reported for Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol and a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler were comparable .
Adverse Experience Incidences ( % of patients ) in a Large 12 - week Clinical Trial * * This table includes all adverse events ( whether considered by the investigator drug related or unrelated to drug ) which occurred at an incidence rate of at least 3 % in the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol group and more frequently in the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol group than in the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler group .
Body System / Adverse Event ( Preferred Term ) Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol ( N = 193 ) CFC 11 / 12 Propelled Albuterol Inhaler ( N = 186 ) HFA - 134 a Placebo Inhaler ( N = 186 ) Application Site Disorders Inhalation Site Sensation 6 9 2 Inhalation Taste Sensation 4 3 3 Body as a Whole Allergic Reaction / Symptoms 6 4 < 1 Back Pain 4 2 3 Fever 6 2 5 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Tremor 7 8 2 Gastrointestinal System Nausea 10 9 5 Vomiting 7 2 3 Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorder Tachycardia 7 2 < 1 Psychiatric Disorders Nervousness 7 9 3 Respiratory System Disorders Respiratory Disorder ( unspecified ) 6 4 5 Rhinitis 16 22 14 Upper Resp Tract Infection 21 20 18 Urinary System Disorder Urinary Tract Infection 3 4 2 Adverse events reported by less than 3 % of the patients receiving Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , and by a greater proportion of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol patients than placebo patients , which have the potential to be related to Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol include : dysphonia , increased sweating , dry mouth , chest pain , edema , rigors , ataxia , leg cramps , hyperkinesia , eructation , flatulence , tinnitus , diabetes mellitus , anxiety , depression , somnolence , rash .
Palpitation and dizziness have also been observed with Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol .
Adverse events reported in a 4 - week pediatric clinical trial comparing Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol and a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler occurred at a low incidence rate and were similar to those seen in the adult trials .
In small , cumulative dose studies , tremor , nervousness , and headache appeared to be dose related .
Rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , and oropharyngeal edema have been reported after the use of inhaled albuterol .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypertension , angina , vertigo , central nervous system stimulation , insomnia , headache , metabolic acidosis , and drying or irritation of the oropharynx .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and insomnia .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 6800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis and approximately 3200 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 3000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis and approximately 1400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
In young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis and approximately 6400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
The inhalation median lethal dose has not been determined in animals .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of asthmatic symptoms , the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours .
More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended .
In some patients , one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
Each actuation of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol delivers 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) from the mouthpiece .
It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face .
Exercise Induced Bronchospasm Prevention : The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
To maintain proper use of this product , it is important that the mouthpiece be washed and dried thoroughly at least once a week .
The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if not properly cleaned and dried thoroughly ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients section ) .
Keeping the plastic mouthpiece clean is very important to prevent medication buildup and blockage .
The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if not properly cleaned and air dried thoroughly .
If the mouthpiece becomes blocked , washing the mouthpiece will remove the blockage .
If a previously effective dose regimen fails to provide the usual response , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
HOW SUPPLIED Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is supplied as a pressurized aluminum canister , with an attached dose indicator , a yellow plastic actuator and orange dust cap each in boxes of one .
Each actuation delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) .
Canisters with a labeled net weight of 6 . 7 g contain 200 inhalations ( NDC 0781 - 7296 - 85 ) .
Rx only .
Store between 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Store the inhaler with the mouthpiece down .
For best results , canister should be at room temperature before use .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
The yellow actuator supplied with Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should not be used with any other product canisters , and actuator from other products should not be used with a Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol canister .
The correct amount of medication in each canister cannot be assured after 200 actuations and when the dose indicator display window shows zero , even though the canister is not completely empty the canister is not completely empty .
The canister should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations have been used .
WARNING : Avoid spraying in eyes .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Keep out of reach of children .
Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
Distributed by : Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Copyright © 1996 , 2011 , 2012 , 2017 , 2018 , 2020 All rights reserved . The trademarks depicted in this piece are owned by their respective companies .
Revised : 12 / 2020 34 - 8726 - 6023 - 7 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Albuterol Sulfate ( al - BYOO - ter - ole ) Inhalation Aerosol with Dose Indicator Read this Instructions for Use before you start using Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol and eachtime you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Your doctor should show you how your child should use Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol .
Important Information : • Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is for oral inhalation use only .
• Take Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol exactly as your doctor tells you to .
Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol comes as a canister with a dose indicator .
The dose indicator is located on the top of the canister that fits into an actuator ( See Figure A ) .
The dose indicator display window will show you how many puffs of medicine you have left .
A puff of medicine is released each time you press the center of the dose indicator .
• Do not use the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol actuator with a canister of medicine from any other inhaler .
• Do not use the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol canister with an actuator from any other inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Before you use Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol for the first time make sure that the pointer on the dose indicator is pointing to the right of the “ 200 ” inhalation mark in the dose indicator display window ( See Figure A ) .
Each canister of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol contains 200 puffs of medicine .
This does not include the sprays of medicine used for priming your inhaler .
• The dose indicator display window will continue to move after every 10 puffs .
• The number in the dose indicator display window will continue to change after every 20 puffs .
• The color in the dose indicator display window will change to red , as shown in the shaded area , when there are only 20 puffs of medicine left in your inhaler ( See Figure B ) .
This is when you need to refill your prescription or ask your doctor if you need another prescription for Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Before using your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol for the first time , you should prime your inhaler .
If you do not use your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol for more than 2 weeks , you should re - prime it before use .
• Remove the cap from the mouthpiece ( See Figure C ) .
Check inside the mouthpiece for objects before use .
• Make sure the canister is fully inserted into the actuator .
• Hold the inhaler in an upright position away from your face and shake the inhaler well .
• Press down fully on the center of the dose indicator to release a spray of medicine .
You may hear a soft click from the dose indicator as it counts down during use .
• Repeat the priming step 3 more times to release a total of 4 sprays of medicine .
Shake the inhaler well before each priming spray .
• After the 4 priming sprays , the dose indicator should be pointing to 200 .
There are now 200 puffs of medicine left in the canister .
• Your inhaler is now ready to use .
Using your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler : Step 1 : Shake the inhaler well before each use .
Remove the cap from the mouthpiece ( See Figure C ) .
Check inside the mouthpiece for objects before use .
Make sure the canister is fully inserted into the actuator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 2 : Breathe out as fully as you comfortably can through your mouth .
Hold the inhaler in the upright position with the mouthpiece pointing towards you and place the mouthpiece fully into the mouth ( See Figure D ) .
Close your lips around the mouthpiece .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 3 : While breathing in deeply and slowly , press down on the center of the dose indicator with your index finger until the canister stops moving in the actuator and a puff of medicine has been released ( See Figure D ) .
Then stop pressing the dose indicator .
Step 4 : Hold your breath as long as you comfortably can , up to 10 seconds .
Remove the inhaler from your mouth , and then breathe out .
Step 5 : If your doctor has prescribed additional puffs of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol , wait 1 minute then shake the inhaler well .
Repeat steps 3 through 5 in the section “ Using your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler ” .
Step 6 : Replace the cap right away after use .
Cleaning your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler : It is very important that you keep the mouthpiece clean so that medicine will not build up and block the spray through the mouthpiece .
Clean the mouthpiece 1 time each week or if your mouthpiece becomes blocked ( See Figure F ) .
Step 1 : Remove the canister from the actuator and take the cap off the mouthpiece .
Do not clean the metal canister or let it get wet .
Step 2 : Wash the mouthpiece through the top and bottom with warm running water for 30 seconds ( See Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 3 : Shake off as much water from the mouthpiece as you can .
Step 4 : Look in the mouthpiece to make sure any medicine buildup has been completely washed away .
If the mouthpiece is blocked with buildup , little to no medicine will come out of the mouthpiece ( See Figure F ) .
If there is any buildup , repeat Steps 2 through 4 in the section “ Cleaning your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler ” .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 5 : Let the mouthpiece air - dry such as overnight ( Figure G ) .
Do not put the canister back into the actuator if it is still we [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G Step 6 : When the mouthpiece is dry , put the canister back in the actuator and put the cap on the mouthpiece .
Note : If you need to use your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler before it is completely dry , put the canister back in the actuator and shake the inhaler well .
Press down on the center of the dose indicator 2 times to release a total of 2 sprays into the air , away from your face .
Take your dose as prescribed then clean and air - dry your inhaler as described in the section “ Cleaning your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler ” .
How should I store Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol ?
• Store Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol at room temperature between 59 ° F and 77 ° F ( 15 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Store with the mouthpiece down .
• Avoid exposing Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol to extreme heat and cold .
• Do not puncture or burn the canister .
• Keep your Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Developed and Manufactured by : Kindeva Drug Delivery L . P . Northridge , CA 91324 , USA Distributed by : Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Copyright © 1996 , 2011 , 2012 , 2017 , 2018 , 2020 All rights reserved .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 12 / 2020 34 - 8726 - 6023 - 7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Canister NDC 0781 - 7296 - 85 Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol HFA 90 mcg * with Dose Indicator Rx only FOR ORAL INHALATION WITH SANDOZ INC .
ALBUTEROL SULFATE INHALATION AEROSOL HFA ACTUATOR ONLY 200 METERED INHALATIONS Net Contents 6 . 7 g SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Carton NDC 0781 - 7296 - 85 Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol HFA With Dose Indicator Rx only FOR ORAL INHALATION WITH SANDOZ INC ALBUTEROL SULFATE INHALATION AEROSOL HFA ACTUATOR ONLY 200 METERED INHALATIONS Net Contents 6 . 7 g CONTAINS NO CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS ( CFCs ) SANDOZ A Novarti Division [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
