Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy , oak , sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • external genital and anal itching .
other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings • for external use only • avoid contact with the eyes Stop using this product and ask a doctor • if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • before you begin using any other hydrocortisone product Do not use this product and ask a doctor • if you have a vaginal discharge • before treating diaper rash • before using on children under 2 years of age For External Anal Itching Users • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • in case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep this carton .
It contains important information .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : do not use , ask a doctor For External Anal Itching Users • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal , and screw cap back onto tube • if seal has been broken , do not use this product .
Return product to the store where you bought it .
• store at controlled room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis , cetostearyl alcohol , citric acid , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , paraffin , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cetearyl sulfate , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol Distributed by McKesson One Post Street San Francisco , CA 94104 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 4 g Tube Carton CommUnityCare Federally Qualified Health Centers HYDROCORTISONE 1 % CR 28 g Date : Name : Dr . USE AS DIRECTED .
1 / 1 / 01 123456 HYDROCORTISONE 1 % CRM 30 G NDC 76413 - 334 - 28 Batch : 123456 Lot : 123456 Exp : 1 / 1 / 01 SUNMARK Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any other person than the patient for whom prescribed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
