DESCRIPTION SECTION Tramadol hydrochloride is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic in an extended - release formulation .
The chemical name is ( ± ) cis - 2 - [ ( dimethylamino ) methyl ] - 1 - ( 3 - methoxyphenyl ) cyclohexanol hydrochloride .
Its structural formula is : Figure 1 tramadol - structure The molecular weight of tramadol hydrochloride is 299 . 84 .
It is a white , crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water and methanol , very slightly soluble in acetone and has a pKa of 9 . 41 .
The n - octanol / water log partition coefficient ( logP ) is 1 . 35 at pH 7 .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets contain 100 mg , 200 mg or 300 mg of tramadol hydrochloride , USP in an extended - release formulation .
The tablets are white in color and contain the inactive ingredients pregelatinized maize starch , hypromellose , mannitol , magnesium stearate , cellulose acetate and polyethylene glycol .
Imprinting ink contains , shellac glaze , iron oxide black , N - butyl alcohol , ammonium hydroxide and propylene glycol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets contain tramadol , an opioid agonist and an inhibitor of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin .
Although the mode of action of tramadol is not completely understood , the analgesic effect of tramadol is believed to be due to both binding to μ - opioid receptors and weak inhibition of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin .
Opioid activity of tramadol is due to both low affinity binding of the parent compound and higher affinity binding of the O - desmethyl metabolite M1 to μ - opioid receptors .
In animal models , M1 is up to 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in μ - opioid binding .
Tramadol - induced analgesia is only partially antagonized by the opioid antagonist naloxone in several animal tests .
The relative contribution of both tramadol and M1 to human analgesia is dependent upon the plasma concentrations of each compound .
Tramadol has been shown to inhibit reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in vitro , as have some other opioid analgesics .
These mechanisms may contribute independently to the overall analgesic profile of tramadol .
Apart from analgesia , tramadol administration may produce a constellation of symptoms ( including dizziness , somnolence , nausea , constipation , sweating and pruritus ) similar to that of other opioids .
In contrast to morphine , tramadol has not been shown to cause histamine release .
At therapeutic doses , tramadol has no effect on heart rate , left - ventricular function , or cardiac index .
Orthostatic hypotension has been observed .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on the Central Nervous System Tramadol produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers .
The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and electrical stimulation .
Tramadol causes miosis , even in total darkness .
Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic ( e . g . , pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origins may produce similar findings ) .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations .
Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Tramadol causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum .
Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased .
Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased , while tone may be increased to the point of spasm , resulting in constipation .
Other opioid - induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions , spasm of sphincter of Oddi , and transient elevations in serum amylase .
Effects on the Cardiovascular System Tramadol produces peripheral vasodilation , which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope .
Manifestations of histamine release and / or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus , flushing , red eyes , sweating , and / or orthostatic hypotension .
The effect of oral tramadol on the QTcF interval was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , four - way crossover , placebo - and positive - ( moxifloxacin ) controlled study in 68 adult male and female healthy subjects .
At a 600 mg / day dose ( 1 . 5 - fold the maximum immediate - release daily dose ) , the study demonstrated no significant effect on the QTcF interval .
Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) , cortisol , and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) in humans [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
They also stimulate prolactin , growth hormone ( GH ) secretion , and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon .
Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis , leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido , impotence , erectile dysfunction , amenorrhea , or infertility .
The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical , physical , lifestyle , and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Overall , the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive .
Concentration – Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients , especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent opioid agonists .
The minimum effective analgesic concentration of tramadol for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain , the development of a new pain syndrome , and / or the development of analgesic tolerance [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Concentration – Adverse Reaction Relationships There is a relationship between increasing tramadol plasma concentration and increasing frequency of dose - related opioid adverse reactions such as nausea , vomiting , CNS effects , and respiratory depression .
In opioid - tolerant patients , the situation may be altered by the development of tolerance to opioid - related adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to both parent drug and the M1 metabolite .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet is administered as a racemate and both the [ - ] and [ + ] forms of both tramadol and M1 are detected in the circulation .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are approximately dose - proportional over a 100 to 400 mg dose range in healthy subjects .
The observed tramadol AUC values for the 400 mg dose were 26 % higher than predicted based on the AUC values for the 200 mg dose .
The clinical significance of this finding has not been studied and is not known .
Absorption In healthy subjects , the bioavailability of a tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet 200 mg administered once daily relative to a 50 mg immediate - release ( IR ) tablet administered every six hours was approximately 85 to 90 % .
Consistent with the extended - release nature of the formulation , there is a lag time in drug absorption following tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets administration .
The mean peak plasma concentrations of tramadol and M1 after administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets to healthy volunteers are attained at about 12 h and 15 h , respectively , after dosing ( see Table 3 and Figure 1 ) .
Following administration of the tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets , steady - state plasma concentrations of both tramadol and M1 are achieved within four days with once daily dosing .
The mean ( % CV ) pharmacokinetic parameter values for tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet 200 mg administered once daily and tramadol HCl IR 50 mg administered every six hours are provided in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Mean ( % CV ) Steady - State Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values ( n = 32 ) Tramadol M1 Metabolite Pharmacokinetic Parameter Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release 200 mg Tablet Tramadol hydrochloride 50 mg Tablet Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release 200 mg Tablet Tramadol hydrochloride 50 mg Tablet Once - Daily Every 6 Hours Once - Daily Every 6 Hours AUC0 - 24 ( ng ∙ h / mL ) 5975 ( 34 ) 6613 ( 27 ) 1890 ( 25 ) 2095 ( 26 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 335 ( 35 ) 383 ( 21 ) 95 ( 24 ) 104 ( 24 ) Cmin ( ng / mL ) 187 ( 37 ) 228 ( 32 ) 69 ( 30 ) 82 ( 27 ) Tmax ( h ) 12 ( 27 ) 1 . 5 ( 42 ) 15 ( 27 ) 1 . 9 ( 57 ) % Fluctuation 61 ( 57 ) 59 ( 35 ) 34 ( 72 ) 26 ( 47 ) AUC0 - 24 : Area Under the Curve in a 24 - hour dosing interval ; Cmax : Peak Concentration in a 24 - hour dosing interval ; Cmin : Trough Concentration in a 24 - hour dosing interval ; Tmax : Time to Peak Concentration Figure 1 : Mean Steady - State Tramadol ( a ) and M1 ( b ) Plasma Concentrations on Day 8 Post Dose after Administration of 200 mg Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Once - Daily and 50 mg Tramadol IR Tablets Every 6 Hours .
[ tramadol - figure1 ] [ tramadol - figure2 ] Food Effects After a single dose administration of 200 mg tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet with a high fat meal , the Cmax and AUC0 - ∞ of tramadol decreased 28 % and 16 % , respectively , compared to fasting conditions .
Mean Tmax was increased by 3 hr ( from 14 hr under fasting conditions to 17 hr under fed conditions ) .
While tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be taken without regard to food , it is recommended that it be taken in a consistent manner [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution The volume of distribution of tramadol was 2 . 6 and 2 . 9 L / kg in male and female subjects , respectively , following a 100 mg intravenous dose .
The binding of tramadol to human plasma proteins is approximately 20 % and binding also appears to be independent of concentration up to 10 mcg / mL .
Saturation of plasma protein binding occurs only at concentrations outside the clinically relevant range .
Elimination Tramadol is eliminated primarily through metabolism by the liver and the metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys .
The mean terminal plasma elimination half - lives of racemic tramadol and racemic M1 after administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are approximately 7 . 9 and 8 . 8 hours , respectively .
Metabolism Tramadol is extensively metabolized after oral administration .
The metabolic pathways appear to be N – demethylation ( mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 ) , O – demethylation ( mediated by CYP2D6 ) and glucuronidation or sulfation in the liver .
The CYP2D6 metabolite , O - desmethyl tramadol , ( denoted M1 ) is observed to be 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in μ - opioid binding in animal models .
Excretion Approximately 30 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug , whereas 60 % of the dose is excreted as metabolites .
The remainder is excreted either as unidentified or as unextractable metabolites .
Special Populations Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetics of tramadol was studied in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment after receiving multiple doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets 100 mg .
The exposure of ( + ) - and ( - ) - tramadol was similar in mild and moderate hepatic impairment patients in comparison to patients with normal hepatic function .
However , exposure of active metabolite ( + ) - and ( - ) - M1 decreased ~ 50 % with increased severity of the hepatic impairment ( from normal to mild and moderate ) .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol after the administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
After the administration of tramadol IR tablets to patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver , tramadol exposure was increased and the tramadol and M1 half - lives were longer than patients with normal hepatic function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment Impaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite , M1 .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol were studied in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment after receiving multiple doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets 100 mg .
There is no consistent trend observed for tramadol exposure related to renal function in patients with mild ( CLcr : 50 to 80 mL / min ) or moderate ( CLcr : 30 to 50 mL / min ) renal impairment in comparison to patients with normal renal function .
However , exposure of M1 increased 20 to 40 % with increased severity of the renal impairment ( from normal to mild and moderate ) .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) .
The total amount of tramadol and M1 removed during a 4 - hour dialysis period is less than 7 % of the administered dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Sex Based on pooled multiple - dose pharmacokinetics studies for tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in 166 healthy subjects ( 111 males and 55 females ) , the dose - normalized AUC values for tramadol were somewhat higher in females than in males .
There was a considerable degree of overlap in values between male and female groups .
Dosage adjustment based on sex is not recommended .
Age : Geriatric Population The effect of age on pharmacokinetics of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets has not been studied .
Healthy elderly subjects aged 65 to 75 years administered an immediate - release formulation of tramadol , have plasma concentrations and elimination half - lives comparable to those observed in healthy subjects younger than 65 years of age .
In subjects over 75 years , mean maximum plasma concentrations are elevated ( 208 vs . 162 ng / mL ) and the mean elimination half - life is prolonged ( 7 vs . 6 hours ) compared to subjects 65 to 75 years of age .
Adjustment of the daily dose is recommended for patients older than 75 years [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Potential for Tramadol to Affect Other Drugs In vitro studies indicate that tramadol is unlikely to inhibit the CYP3A4 - mediated metabolism of other drugs when tramadol is administered concomitantly at therapeutic doses .
Tramadol does not appear to induce its own metabolism in humans , since observed maximal plasma concentrations after multiple oral doses are higher than expected based on single - dose data .
Poor / Extensive Metabolizers , CYP2D6 The formation of the active metabolite , M1 , is mediated by CYP2D6 , a polymorphic enzyme .
Approximately 7 % of the population has reduced activity of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme of cytochrome P450 metabolizing enzyme system .
These individuals are “ poor metabolizers ” of debrisoquine , dextromethorphan and tricyclic antidepressants , among other drugs .
Based on a population PK analysis of Phase 1 studies with IR tablets in healthy subjects , concentrations of tramadol were approximately 20 % higher in " poor metabolizers " versus " extensive metabolizers , " while M1 concentrations were 40 % lower .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that concomitant administration with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine , paroxetine , and amitriptyline could result in some inhibition of the metabolism of tramadol .
Quinidine Tramadol is metabolized to active metabolite M1 by CYP2D6 .
Coadministration of quinidine , a selective inhibitor of CYP2D6 , with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets resulted in a 50 to 60 % increase in tramadol exposure and a 50 to 60 % decrease in M1 exposure .
The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown .
To evaluate the effect of tramadol , a CYP2D6 substrate on quinidine , an in vitro drug interaction study in human liver microsomes was conducted .
The results from this study indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since tramadol is also metabolized by CYP3A4 , administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole and erythromycin , or CYP3A4 inducers , such as rifampin and St . John ’ s Wort , with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Cimetidine Concomitant administration of tramadol IR tablets with cimetidine , a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor , does not result in clinically significant changes in tramadol pharmacokinetics .
No alteration of the tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets dosage regimen with cimetidine is recommended .
Carbamazepine Carbamazepine , a CYP3A4 inducer , increases tramadol metabolism .
Patients taking carbamazepine may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol .
Concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended .
CLINICAL STUDIES SECTION • Tramadol hydrochloride was studied in patients with chronic , moderate to moderately severe pain due to osteoarthritis and / or low back pain in four 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
To qualify for inclusion into these studies , patients were required to have moderate to moderately severe pain as defined by a pain intensity score of ≥ 40 mm , off previous medications , on a 0 mm to 100 mm visual analog scale ( VAS ) .
Adequate evidence of efficacy was demonstrated in the following two studies : In one 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study , patients with moderate to moderately severe pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee and / or hip were administered doses from 100 mg to 400 mg daily .
Treatment was initiated at 100 mg QD for four days then increased by 100 mg per day increments every five days to the randomized fixed dose .
Between 51 % and 59 % of patients in the tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets treatment groups completed the study and 56 % of patients in the placebo group completed the study .
Discontinuations due to adverse events were more common in the tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets 200 mg , 300 mg and 400 mg treatment groups ( 20 % , 27 % , and 30 % of discontinuations , respectively ) compared to 14 % of the patients treated with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets 100 mg and 20 % of patients treated with placebo .
Pain , as assessed by the WOMAC Pain subscale , was measured at 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 weeks and change from baseline assessed .
A responder analysis based on the percent change in WOMAC Pain subscale demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in pain for the 100 mg and 200 mg treatment groups compared to placebo ( see Figure 3 ) .
In one 12 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled flexible - dosing trial of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee , patients titrated to an average daily tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose of approximately 270 mg / day .
Forty - nine percent of patients randomized to tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets completed the study , while 52 % of patients randomized to placebo completed the study .
Most of the early discontinuations in the tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets treatment group were due to adverse events , accounting for 27 % of the early discontinuations in contrast to 7 % of the discontinuations from the placebo group .
Thirty - four percent of the placebo - treated patients discontinued the study due to lack of efficacy compared to 15 % of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patients .
The tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets group demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in the mean VAS score , and a statistically significant difference in the responder rate , based on the percent change from baseline in the VAS score , measured at 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , and 12 weeks , between patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets and placebo ( see Figure 4 ) .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated for the management of moderate to moderately severe chronic pain in adults who require around - the - clock treatment of their pain for an extended period of time .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be administered to patients who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to tramadol , any other component of this product or opioids .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in any situation where opioids are contraindicated , including acute intoxication with any of the following : alcohol , hypnotics , narcotics , centrally acting analgesics , opioids or psychotropic drugs .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may worsen central nervous system and respiratory depression in these patients .
WARNINGS SECTION • Seizure Risk Seizures have been reported in patients receiving tramadol within the recommended dosage range .
Spontaneous postmarketing reports indicate that seizure risk is increased with doses of tramadol above the recommended range .
Concomitant use of tramadol increases the seizure risk in patients taking : • Selective serotonin re - uptake inhibitors ( SSRI antidepressants or anorectics ) , • Tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , and other tricyclic compounds ( e . g . , cyclobenzaprine , promethazine , etc . ) , or • Other opioids .
Administration of tramadol may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking : • MAO inhibitors ( see also WARNINGS - Use with MAO Inhibitors ) , • Neuroleptics , or • Other drugs that reduce the seizure threshold .
Risk of convulsions may also increase in patients with epilepsy , those with a history of seizures , or in patients with a recognized risk for seizure ( such as head trauma , metabolic disorders , alcohol and drug withdrawal , CNS infections ) .
In tramadol overdose , naloxone administration may increase the risk of seizure .
Suicide Risk • Do not prescribe tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets for patients who are suicidal or addiction - prone .
• Prescribe tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets with caution for patients taking tranquilizers or antidepressant drugs and patients who use alcohol in excess .
• Tell your patients not to exceed the recommended dose and to limit their intake of alcohol .
Serotonin Syndrome Risk The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with use of tramadol products , including tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets , particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , MAOIs and triptans , with drugs which impair metabolism of serotonin ( including MAOIs ) and with drugs which impair metabolism of tramadol ( CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors ) .
This may occur within the recommended dose .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics ) .
Serotonin syndrome may include mental - status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Tramadol products in excessive doses , either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , are a major cause of drug - related deaths .
Fatalities within the first hour of overdosage are not uncommon .
Tramadol should not be taken in doses higher than those recommended by the physician .
The judicious prescribing of tramadol is essential to the safe use of this drug .
With patients who are depressed or suicidal , consideration should be given to the use of non - narcotic analgesics .
Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of tramadol products and alcohol because of potentially serious CNS - additive effects of these agents .
Because of its added depressant effects , tramadol should be prescribed with caution for those patients whose medical condition requires the concomitant administration of sedatives , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , antidepressants , or other CNS - depressant drugs .
Patients should be advised of the additive depressant effects of these combinations .
Many of the tramadol - related deaths have occurred in patients with previous histories of emotional disturbances or suicidal ideation or attempts as well as histories of misuse of tranquilizers , alcohol , and other CNS - active drugs .
Some deaths have occurred as a consequence of the accidental ingestion of excessive quantities of tramadol alone or in combination with other drugs .
Patients taking tramadol should be warned not to exceed the dose recommended by their physician .
Anaphylactoid Reactions Serious and rarely fatal anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with tramadol .
When these events do occur it is often following the first dose .
Other reported allergic reactions include pruritus , hives , bronchospasm , angioedema , toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Patients with a history of anaphylactoid reactions to codeine and other opioids may be at increased risk and therefore should not receive tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Respiratory Depression Administer tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets cautiously in patients at risk for respiratory depression .
In these patients alternative non - opioid analgesics should be considered .
When large doses of tramadol are administered with anesthetic medications or alcohol , respiratory depression may result .
Respiratory depression should be treated as an overdose .
If naloxone is to be administered , use cautiously because it may precipitate seizures ( see WARNINGS Seizure Risk and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Interaction With Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients receiving CNS depressants such as alcohol , opioids , anesthetic agents , narcotics , phenothiazines , tranquilizers or sedative hypnotics .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets increase the risk of CNS and respiratory depression in these patients .
Increased Intracranial Pressure or Head Trauma Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with increased intracranial pressure or head injury .
The respiratory depressant effects of opioids include carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure , and may be markedly exaggerated in these patients .
Additionally , pupillary changes ( miosis ) from tramadol may obscure the existence , extent , or course of intracranial pathology .
Clinicians should also maintain a high index of suspicion for adverse drug reaction when evaluating altered mental status in these patients if they are receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
( see WARNINGS - Respiratory Depression ) .
Use in Ambulatory Patients Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may impair the mental and or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient using this drug should be cautioned accordingly .
Use With MAO Inhibitors and Serotonin Re - uptake Inhibitors Use tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets with great caution in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Animal studies have shown increased deaths with combined administration .
Concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets with MAO inhibitors or SSRIs increases the risk of adverse events , including seizure and serotonin syndrome .
Withdrawal Withdrawal symptoms may occur if tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet is discontinued abruptly .
These symptoms may include : anxiety , sweating , insomnia , rigors , pain , nausea , tremors , diarrhea , upper respiratory symptoms , piloerection , and rarely hallucinations .
Clinical experience suggests that withdrawal symptoms may be reduced by tapering tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Misuse , Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Tramadol is an opioid agonist of the morphine - type .
Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Tramadol can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists , legal or illicit .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse , abuse , or diversion .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets could be abused by crushing , chewing , snorting , or injecting the dissolved product .
These practices will result in the uncontrolled delivery of the opioid and pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death ( see WARNINGS and DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION ) .
Concerns about abuse , addiction , and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain .
The development of addiction to opioid analgesics in properly managed patients with pain has been reported to be rare .
However , data are not available to establish the true incidence of addiction in chronic pain patients .
Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board , or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Tramadol may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE SECTION • Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet is a mu - agonist opioid .
Tramadol , like other opioids used in analgesia , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
Drug addiction is characterized by compulsive use , use for non - medical purposes , and continued use despite harm or risk of harm .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multi - disciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
“ Drug - seeking ” behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated “ loss ” of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
“ Doctor shopping ” to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets , like other opioids , may be diverted for non - medical use .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are intended for oral use only .
The crushed tablet poses a hazard of overdose and death .
This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol and other substances .
With parenteral abuse , the tablet excipients can be expected to result in local tissue necrosis , infection , pulmonary granulomas , and increased risk of endocarditis and valvular heart injury .
Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
Risk of Overdosage Serious potential consequences of overdosage with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are central nervous system depression , respiratory depression and death .
In treating an overdose , primary attention should be given to maintaining adequate ventilation along with general supportive treatment ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
PRECAUTIONS SECTION • Acute Abdominal Condition The administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may complicate the clinical assessment of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Use in Renal and Hepatic Disease Impaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite , M1 .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) .
The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe renal impairment .
Therefore , tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Metabolism of tramadol and M1 is reduced in patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Therefore , tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS SECTION • • Patients should be informed that tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets is for oral use only and should be swallowed whole .
The tablets should not be chewed , crushed , or split .
• Patients should be informed that tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause seizures and / or serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of serotonergic agents ( including SRIs , NRIs , and triptans ) or drugs that significantly reduce the metabolic clearance of tramadol .
• Patients should be informed that tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may impair mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
• Patients should be informed that tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be taken with alcohol containing beverages .
• Patients should be informed that tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution when taking medications such as tranquilizers , hypnotics or other opiate containing analgesics .
• Female patients should be instructed to inform the prescriber if they are pregnant , think they might become pregnant , or are trying to become pregnant ( see PRECAUTIONS , Labor and Delivery ) .
• Patients should be educated regarding the single - dose and 24 - hour dosing regimen , as exceeding these recommendations can result in respiratory depression , seizures or death .
Use in Drug and Alcohol Addiction Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablet is an opioid with no approved use in the management of addictive disorders .
Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence , either active or in remission , is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia .
Drug Interactions CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors : Concomitant administration of CYP2D6 and / or CYP3A4 inhibitors ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics ) , such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine and amitriptyline ( CYP2D6 inhibitors ) , and ketoconazole and erythromycin ( CYP3A4 inhibitors ) , may reduce metabolic clearance of tramadol increasing the risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome .
Serotonergic Drugs : There have been postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of tramadol and SSRIs / SNRIs or MAOIs and α2 - adrenergic blockers .
Caution is advised when tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems , such as SSRIs , MAOIs , triptans , linezolid ( an antibiotic which is a reversible non - selective MAOI ) , lithium , or St . John ' s Wort .
If concomitant treatment of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets with a drug affecting the serotonergic neurotransmitter system is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see WARNINGS - Serotonin Syndrome ) .
Triptans : Based on the mechanism of action of tramadol and the potential for serotonin syndrome , caution is advised when tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are coadministered with a triptan .
If concomitant treatment of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets with a triptan is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see WARNINGS - Serotonin Syndrome ) .
Use With Carbamazepine Patients taking carbamazepine , a CYP3A4 inducer , may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol .
Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol , concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended .
Use With Quinidine Coadministration of quinidine with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets resulted in a 50 % to 60 % increase in tramadol exposure and a 50 % to 60 % decrease in M1 exposure ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions ) .
The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown .
Use With Digoxin and Warfarin Postmarketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity and alteration of warfarin effect , including elevation of prothrombin times .
Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Tramadol In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that concomitant administration with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine , paroxetine , and amitriptyline could result in some inhibition of the metabolism of tramadol .
Administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole and erythromycin , or inducers , such as rifampin and St . John ’ s Wort , with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure .
Potential for Tramadol to Affect Other Drugs In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism .
In vitro studies indicate that tramadol is unlikely to inhibit the CYP3A4 - mediated metabolism of other drugs when administered concomitantly at therapeutic doses .
Tramadol is a mild inducer of selected drug metabolism pathways measured in animals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenic effect of tramadol was observed in p53 ( + / – ) - heterozygous mice at oral doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 - fold maximum daily human dose [ MDHD ] of 400 mg / day for a 60 kg adult based on body surface conversion ) for 26 weeks and in rats at oral doses up to 75 mg / kg / day for males and 100 mg / kg / day for females ( approximately 2 - fold MDHD ) for two years .
However , the excessive decrease in body weight gain observed in the rat study might have reduced their sensitivity to any potential carcinogenic effect of the drug .
Tramadol was not mutagenic in the following assays : a bacterial reverse mutation assay using Salmonella and E . coli , a mouse lymphoma assay ( in the absence of metabolic activation ) , and a bone marrow micronucleus test in mice .
Mutagenic results occurred in the presence of metabolic activation in the mouse lymphoma assay .
Overall , the weight of evidence from these tests indicates that tramadol does not pose a genotoxic risk to humans .
No effects on fertility were observed for tramadol at oral dose levels up to 50 mg / kg / day in male and female rats ( approximately equivalent to MDHD ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Tramadol was not teratogenic at oral dose levels up to 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to MDHD ) in rats and 100 mg / kg ( approximately 5 - fold MDHD ) in rabbits during organogenesis .
However , embryo - fetal lethality , reductions in fetal weight and skeletal ossification , and increased supernumerary ribs were observed at a maternal toxic dose of 140 mg / kg in mice ( approximately 2 - fold MDHD ) , 80 mg / kg in rats ( 2 - fold MDHD ) or 300 mg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 15 - fold MDHD ) .
Non - teratogenic Effects Tramadol caused a reduction in neonatal body weight and survival at an oral dose of 80 mg / kg ( approximately 2 - fold MDHD ) when rats were treated during late gestation throughout lactation period .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Neonatal seizures , neonatal withdrawal syndrome , fetal death and still birth have been reported during postmarketing reports with tramadol hydrochloride immediate - release products .
Labor and Delivery Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used in pregnant women prior to or during labor unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks .
Safe use in pregnancy has not been established .
Chronic use during pregnancy may lead to physical dependence and post - partum withdrawal symptoms in the newborn ( see DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION ) .
Tramadol has been shown to cross the placenta .
The mean ratio of serum tramadol in the umbilical veins compared to maternal veins was 0 . 83 for 40 women treated with tramadol hydrochloride during labor .
The effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets , if any , on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child is unknown .
Nursing Mothers Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended for obstetrical preoperative medication or for post - delivery analgesia in nursing mothers because its safety in infants and newborns has not been studied .
Following a single intravenous 100 mg dose of tramadol , the cumulative excretion in breast milk within sixteen hours postdose was 100 mcg of tramadol ( 0 . 1 % of the maternal dose ) and 27 mcg of M1 .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
The use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in the pediatric population is not recommended .
Geriatric Use Nine - hundred - one elderly ( 65 years of age or older ) subjects were exposed to tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in clinical trials .
Of those subjects , 156 were 75 years of age and older .
In general , higher incidence rates of adverse events were observed for patients older than 65 years of age compared with patients 65 years and younger , particularly for the following adverse events : constipation , fatigue , weakness , postural hypotension and dyspepsia .
For this reason , tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used with great caution in patients older than 75 years of age ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The following serious adverse reactions are described in greater detail , in other sections : Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Tramadol and Other Risk Factors for Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression in Children [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Interactions with Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Suicide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Adrenal Insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Severe Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 16 ) ] Withdrawal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 17 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets were administered to a total of 3108 patients during studies conducted in the U . S .
These included four double - blind studies in patients with osteoarthritis and / or chronic low back pain and one open - label study in patients with chronic non - malignant pain .
A total of 901 patients were 65 years or older .
The frequency of adverse reactions generally increased with doses from 100 mg to 400 mg in the two pooled , twelve - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies in patients with chronic non - malignant pain ( see Table 1 ) .
The most common adverse reactions from Table 1 occurring in ≥ 10 % and ≥ 2 x placebo rate of the patients treated with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are dizziness ( not vertigo ) , nausea , constipation , headache , somnolence , flushing , pruritus , vomiting , insomnia , and dry mouth .
Table 1 : Incidence ( % ) of patients with adverse reaction rates ≥ 5 % from two 12 - week placebo - controlled studies in patients with moderate to moderately severe chronic pain by dose ( N = 1811 ) .
MedDRA Preferred Term Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo 100 mg ( N = 403 ) n ( % ) 200 mg ( N = 400 ) n ( % ) 300 mg ( N = 400 ) n ( % ) 400 mg ( N = 202 ) n ( % ) ( N = 406 ) n ( % ) Dizziness ( not vertigo ) 64 ( 16 ) 81 ( 20 ) 90 ( 23 ) 57 ( 28 ) 28 ( 7 ) Nausea 61 ( 15 ) 90 ( 23 ) 102 ( 26 ) 53 ( 26 ) 32 ( 8 ) Constipation 49 ( 12 ) 68 ( 17 ) 85 ( 21 ) 60 ( 30 ) 17 ( 4 ) Headache 49 ( 12 ) 62 ( 16 ) 46 ( 12 ) 32 ( 16 ) 43 ( 11 ) Somnolence 33 ( 8 ) 45 ( 11 ) 29 ( 7 ) 41 ( 20 ) 7 ( 2 ) Flushing 31 ( 8 ) 40 ( 10 ) 35 ( 9 ) 32 ( 16 ) 18 ( 4 ) Pruritus 25 ( 6 ) 34 ( 9 ) 30 ( 8 ) 24 ( 12 ) 4 ( 1 ) Vomiting 20 ( 5 ) 29 ( 7 ) 34 ( 9 ) 19 ( 9 ) 11 ( 3 ) Insomnia 26 ( 7 ) 32 ( 8 ) 36 ( 9 ) 22 ( 11 ) 13 ( 3 ) Dry Mouth 20 ( 5 ) 29 ( 7 ) 39 ( 10 ) 18 ( 9 ) 6 ( 2 ) Diarrhea 15 ( 4 ) 27 ( 7 ) 37 ( 9 ) 10 ( 5 ) 17 ( 4 ) Asthenia 14 ( 4 ) 24 ( 6 ) 26 ( 7 ) 13 ( 6 ) 7 ( 2 ) Postural hypotension 7 ( 2 ) 17 ( 4 ) 8 ( 2 ) 11 ( 5 ) 9 ( 2 ) Sweating increased 6 ( 2 ) 8 ( 2 ) 15 ( 4 ) 13 ( 6 ) 1 ( 0 ) Anorexia 3 ( 1 ) 7 ( 2 ) 21 ( 5 ) 12 ( 6 ) 1 ( 0 ) Adverse reactions With Incidence Rates of 1 . 0 % to < 5 . 0 % During Clinical Trials The following adverse reactions were reported from all the chronic pain studies ( N = 3108 ) .
The lists below include adverse reactions not otherwise noted in Table 1 .
Eye disorders : vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain upper , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , sore throat General disorders : weakness , pain , feeling hot , influenza like illness , fall , rigors , lethargy , pyrexia , chest pain Infections and infestations : nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , sinusitis , influenza , gastroenteritis viral , urinary tract infection , bronchitis Investigations : blood creatine phosphokinase increased , weight decreased Metabolism and nutrition disorders : appetite decreased Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : arthralgia , back pain , pain in limb , neck pain Nervous system disorders : tremor , paresthesia , hypoesthesia Psychiatric disorders : nervousness , anxiety , depression , restlessness Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : sneezing , cough , rhinorrhea , nasal congestion , dyspnea , sinus congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : sweating increased , dermatitis Vascular disorders : hot flushes , vasodilatation Adverse Reactions With Incidence Rates of 0 . 5 % to < 1 . 0 % and Serious Adverse Reactions Reported in at Least 2 patients During Clinical Trials Cardiac disorders : palpitations , myocardial infarction Ear and labyrinth disorders : tinnitus , vertigo Gastrointestinal disorders : flatulence , toothache , constipation aggravated , appendicitis , pancreatitis General disorders : feeling jittery , edema lower limb , shivering , joint swelling , malaise , drug withdrawal syndrome , peripheral swelling Hepato - biliary disorders : cholelithiasis , cholecystitis Infections and infestations : cellulitis , ear infection , gastroenteritis , pneumonia , viral infection Injury and poisoning : joint sprain , muscle injury Investigations : alanine aminotransferase increased , blood pressure increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , heart rate increased , blood glucose increased , liver function tests abnormal Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : muscle cramps , muscle spasms , joint stiffness , muscle twitching , myalgia , osteoarthritis aggravated Nervous system disorders : migraine , sedation , syncope , disturbance in attention , dizziness aggravated Psychiatric disorders : euphoric mood , irritability , libido decreased , sleep disorder , agitation , disorientation , abnormal dreams Renal and urinary disorders : difficulty in micturition , urinary frequency , hematuria , dysuria , urinary retention Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : yawning Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : contusion , piloerection , clamminess , night sweats , urticaria Vascular disorders : hypertension aggravated , hypertension , peripheral ischemia 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tramadol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Serotonin syndrome : Cases of serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition , have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs .
Adrenal insufficiency : Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use , more often following greater than one month of use .
Anaphylaxis : Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Androgen deficiency : Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
QT prolongation / torsade de pointes : Cases of QT prolongation and / or torsade de pointes have been reported with tramadol use .
Many of these cases were reported in patients taking another drug labeled for QT prolongation , in patients with a risk factor for QT prolongation ( e . g . , hypokalemia ) , or in overdose setting .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hyponatremia : cases of severe hyponatremia and / or SIADH have been reported in patients taking tramadol , most often in females over the age of 65 , and within the first week of therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 19 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia : Cases of hypoglycemia have been reported in patients taking tramadol .
Most reports were in patients with predisposing risk factors , including diabetes or renal insufficiency , or in elderly patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 20 ) ] .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION Acute overdosage with tramadol can be manifested by respiratory depression , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , bradycardia , hypotension , and death .
Deaths due to overdose have been reported with abuse and misuse of tramadol , by ingesting , inhaling , or injecting the crushed tablets .
Review of case reports has indicated that the risk of fatal overdose is further increased when tramadol is abused concurrently with alcohol or other CNS depressants , including other opioids .
In the treatment of tramadol overdosage , primary attention should be given to the re - establishment of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) should be employed in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema accompanying overdose as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias may require cardiac massage or defibrillation .
While naloxone will reverse some , but not all , symptoms caused by overdosage with tramadol , the risk of seizures is also increased with naloxone administration .
In animals convulsions following the administration of toxic doses of tramadol could be suppressed with barbiturates or benzodiazepines but were increased with naloxone .
Naloxone administration did not change the lethality of an overdose in mice .
Hemodialysis is not expected to be helpful in an overdose because it removes less than 7 % of the administered dose in a 4 - hour dialysis period .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION • Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used in patients with : • creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min , • severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) ( See PRECAUTIONS , Use in Renal and Hepatic Disease ) .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed , crushed , or split ( see WARNINGS , Misuse , Abuse and Diversion of Opioids and DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION ) .
Adults ( 18 years of age and over ) Patients Not Currently on Tramadol Immediate - Release Products For patients not currently treated with tramadol immediate - release ( IR ) products , tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be initiated at a dose of 100 mg once daily and titrated up as necessary by 100 mg increments every five days to relief of pain and depending upon tolerability .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be administered at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day .
Patients Currently on Tramadol Immediate - Release Products For patients maintained on tramadol IR products , calculate the 24 - hour tramadol immediate - release ( IR ) dose and initiate a total daily dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets rounded down to the next lowest 100 mg increment .
The dose may subsequently be individualized according to patient need .
Due to limitations in flexibility of dose selection with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets , some patients maintained on tramadol IR products may not be able to convert to tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be administered at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day .
The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets with other tramadol products is not recommended ( see WARNINGS ) .
Individualization of Dose Good pain management practice dictates that the dose be individualized according to patient need using the lowest beneficial dose .
Start at the lowest possible dose and titrate upward as tolerated to achieve an adequate effect .
Clinical studies of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not demonstrated a clinical benefit at a total daily dose exceeding 300 mg .
In general , dosing of an elderly patient ( over 65 years of age ) should be initiated cautiously , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be administered with even greater caution in patients over 75 years , due to the greater frequency of adverse events seen in this population .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
