Active ingredient ( in each gram ) Hydrocortisone 10 mg Purpose Antipuritic ( Anti Itch ) Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis , scrapes • for external genital , feminine and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings • for external use only • avoid contact with eyes Do not use and consult a doctor • for the treatment of diaper rash • if you have a vaginal discharge • If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , stop use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by the doctor .
In case of bleeding , consult a physician promptly .
Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • For adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Children under 2 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor .
For external anal itching , • Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information • Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
• Use only if package is intact .
Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , chlorphenesin , citric acid , glycerin , glycerol monostearate , methyl paraben , mineral oil , petrolatum , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 80 , purified water , titanium dioxide , trisodium citrate .
Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline Industries , LP Three Lakes Drive , Northfield , IL 60093 USA Manufactured in USA with imported and domestic materials www . curad . com 1 - 800 - 633 - 5463 REF : CUR015431 V1 RC22ULI Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
