Active ingredient 40 % Salicylic Acid Purpose Corn , Callus , and Wart Remover Uses • for the removal of corns and calluses • Relieves pain by removing corns and calluses • for the removal of common warts .
The common wart is easily recognized by the rough ‘ cauliflower - like ’ appearance of the surface • for the removal of plantar warts on the bottom of the foot .
The plantar wart is recognized by its location only on the bottom of the foot , its tenderness , and the interruption of the footprint pattern .
Warnings For external use only .
This product contains natural rubber , which may cause allergic reactions .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control center immediately .
Stop using this product and see your doctor if • discomfort persists for more than 72 hours Do Not Use • if you are diabetic or have poor blood circulation • on irritated skin or on any area that is infected or reddened • on moles , birthmarks , or warts with hair growing from them , genital warts , warts on the face , warts on mucous membranes such as warts inside the mouth , nose , anus , genitals or lips .
Directions • Wash affected area .
May soak corn , callus or wart in warm water for 5 minutes .
Dry area thoroughly .
Cut pad to fit corn , callus or wart .
Apply medicated pad to area .
Remove medicated pad after 48 hours .
Repeat procedure every 48 hours for up to 14 days for corn / callus removal and up to 12 weeks for warts , until the problem has cleared .
Inactive ingredients O - Cresol , Lanolin , Myroxylon pereirae ( Balsam Peru ) , Phenol , Talc , Terpineol Bandage : Flannel ( 99 . 7 % cotton ) , Colophonium , Rubber Latex , 0 . 3 % Polyurethane • Indications and Usage Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline Industries , LP Three Lakes Drive , Northfield , IL 60093 USA Made in USA www . curad . com 1 - 800 - 633 - 5463 REF : CUR01496 V2 RE22PCC Package Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
