Drug Facts Active ingredients Homosalate 10 % Octocrylene 8 % Avobenzone 3 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only • Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
• Immediately after towel drying .
• At least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p .
m . • Wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Paraffinum Liquidum , Isopropyl Palmitate , Isostearyl Neopentanoate , Cocos Nucifera Oil , Silica , Prunus Amydalus Dulcis Oil , Simmondsia Chinensis Seed Oil , Theobroma Cacao Seed butter , Parfum , Tocopheryl Acetate , BHT , Mica CI 77492 , Titanium Dioxide , CI 77491 , CI 77499 , Tin Oxide Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Contact us at frankbody . com frank body SPF 30 THE BETTER OIL UVA + UVB Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Sunscreen oil with golden shimmer 3 . 38 fl oz - 100 ml Distributed by frank body : 33 Cremorne Street Cremorne VIC 3121 Australia / frank body LLC : 1145 Broadway , Floor 4 New York , NY 10001 , USA Made in Australia [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
