[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient Purpose Tolnaftate 1 % Anti - fungal Uses ■ proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) ■ prevents the recurrence of most athlete ' s foot with daily use ■ for effective relief of itching , cracking and burning Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F . Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product ■ avoid contact with eyes or mouth ■ use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ Irritation occurs ■ no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ wash affected area and dry thoroughly ■ shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) ■ supervise children in the use of this product ■ for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily ■ use daily for 4 weeks ■ if condition persists , consult a doctor ■ to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) ■ This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other information store between 20º and 30º C ( 68º - 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients BHT , isobutane ( propellant ) , PPG - 12 - buteth - 16 , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 36 % w / w ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Maximum Strength HC MAX ™ Tolnaftate Anti - Fungal Spray FOR ATHLETE ' S FOOT Clinically Proven To Cure AND Prevent Most Athlete ' s Foot Cools On Contact Triple Action Formula Relieves ✓ Itching ✓ Burning ✓ Cracking NET WT 5 . 3 OZ ( 150 g ) KRAMER LABORATORIES Distributed by : Kramer Laboratories , Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 1 - 800 - 824 - 4894 K0421 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
