Dosage and Administration , Recommended Premedication ( 2 . 2 ) 12 / 2021 Dosage and Administration , Recommended Monitoring and Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions ( 2 . 3 ) 12 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ASPARLAS is an asparagine specific enzyme indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in pediatric and young adult patients age 1 month to 21 years .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ASPARLAS is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in pediatric and young adult patients age 1 month to 21 years .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Dosage : 2 , 500 units / m2 intravenously no more frequently than every 21 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for important details regarding dosing modifications and preparation and administration .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of ASPARLAS is 2 , 500 units / m2 given intravenously no more frequently than every 21 days .
2 . 2 Recommended Premedication Premedicate patients with acetaminophen , an H - 1 receptor blocker ( such as diphenhydramine ) , and an H - 2 receptor blocker ( such as famotidine ) 30 - 60 minutes prior to administration of ASPARLAS to decrease the risk and severity of both infusion and hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Recommended Monitoring and Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Monitor patients at least weekly with bilirubin , transaminases , glucose , and clinical examinations until recovery from the cycle of therapy .
If an adverse reaction should occur , modify treatment according to Table 1 .
Table 1 : Dosage ModificationsAdverse Reaction Severity [ 1 ] Action Infusion Reaction / Hypersensitivity Reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 1 • Reduce the infusion rate by 50 % Grade 2 • Interrupt the infusion of ASPARLAS • Treat the symptoms • When symptoms resolve , resume the infusion and reduce the infusion rate by 50 % Grade 3 to 4 • Discontinue ASPARLAS permanently Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grades 3 to 4 • Hold ASPARLAS for elevations in lipase or amylase > 3 × upper limit of normal ( ULN ) until enzyme levels stabilize or are declining • Discontinue ASPARLAS permanently if clinical pancreatitis is confirmed Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Uncomplicated deep vein thrombosis • Hold ASPARLAS • Treat with appropriate antithrombotic therapy • Upon resolution of symptoms consider resuming ASPARLAS , while continuing antithrombotic therapy Severe or life - threatening thrombosis • Discontinue ASPARLAS permanently • Treat with appropriate antithrombotic therapy Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 3 to 4 • Hold ASPARLAS • Evaluate for coagulopathy and consider clotting factor replacement as needed • Resume ASPARLAS with the next scheduled dose if bleeding is controlled Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Total bilirubin more than 3 times to no more than 10 times the ULN • Hold ASPARLAS until total bilirubin is ≤ 1 . 5 times the ULN Total bilirubin more than 10 times the ULN • Discontinue ASPARLAS and do not make up for missed doses [ 1 ] Grade 1 is mild , grade 2 is moderate , grade 3 is severe , and grade 4 is life - threatening .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration ASPARLAS is a clear and colorless solution .
Visually inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter , cloudiness , or discoloration prior to administration .
If any of these are present , discard the vial .
Do not administer if ASPARLAS has been shaken or vigorously agitated , frozen , or stored at room temperature for more than 48 hours .
• Dilute ASPARLAS in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP using sterile / aseptic technique .
Discard any unused portion left in a vial .
• After dilution , administer immediately into a running infusion of either 0 . 9 % sodium chloride or 5 % dextrose , respectively .
• Administer the dose over a period of 1 hour .
• Do not infuse other drugs through the same intravenous line during administration of ASPARLAS .
• The diluted solution may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature ( 15 ° C to 25 ° C [ 59 ° F to 77 ° F ] ) or refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours .
• Protect from light .
Do not shake or freeze .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 3 , 750 units / 5 mL ( 750 units / mL ) clear , colorless solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 3 , 750 units / 5 mL ( 750 units / mL ) in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ASPARLAS is contraindicated in patients with : • History of serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , to pegylated L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • History of serious pancreatitis during previous L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • History of serious thrombosis during previous L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • History of serious hemorrhagic events during previous L - asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Severe hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • History of serious hypersensitivity reactions to pegylated L - asparaginase .
( 4 ) • History of serious thrombosis during L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • History of serious pancreatitis related to previous L - asparaginase treatment .
( 4 ) • History of serious hemorrhagic events during previous L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity : Observe patients for one hour after administration .
Discontinue ASPARLAS in patients with serious hypersensitivity reactions .
( 5 . 1 ) • Pancreatitis : Discontinue ASPARLAS in patients with pancreatitis .
Monitor blood glucose .
( 5 . 2 ) • Thrombosis : Discontinue ASPARLAS for severe or life - threatening thrombosis .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hemorrhage : Discontinue ASPARLAS for severe or life - threatening hemorrhage .
Evaluate for etiology and treat .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor for toxicity through recovery from cycle .
Discontinue ASPARLAS for severe liver toxicity .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Grade 3 and 4 hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported in clinical trials with ASPARLAS with an incidence between 7 and 21 % [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions observed with other asparaginases include angioedema , lip swelling , eye swelling , erythema , blood pressure decreased , bronchospasm , dyspnea , pruritus , and rash [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Premedicate patients 30 - 60 minutes prior to administration of ASPARLAS [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the risk of serious allergic reactions ( e . g . , life - threatening anaphylaxis ) , administer ASPARLAS in a clinical setting with resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to treat anaphylaxis ( e . g . , epinephrine , oxygen , intravenous steroids , antihistamines ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] and observe patients for 1 hour after administration .
Discontinue ASPARLAS in patients with serious hypersensitivity reactions .
5 . 2 Pancreatitis Cases of pancreatitis have been reported in clinical trials with ASPARLAS with an incidence between 12 and 16 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis have been reported with other asparaginases .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis , which , if left untreated , could be fatal .
Assess serum amylase and / or lipase levels to identify early signs of pancreatic inflammation .
Discontinue ASPARLAS if pancreatitis is suspected ; if pancreatitis is confirmed , do not resume ASPARLAS [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Thrombosis Serious thrombotic events , including sagittal sinus thrombosis , have been reported in clinical trials with ASPARLAS with an incidence of 9 to 12 % .
Discontinue ASPARLAS in patients experiencing serious thrombotic events [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hemorrhage Hemorrhage associated with increased prothrombin time ( PT ) , increased partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) , and hypofibrinogenemia have been reported in patients receiving ASPARLAS [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of hemorrhage with coagulation parameters including PT , PTT , fibrinogen .
Consider appropriate replacement therapy in patients with severe or symptomatic coagulopathy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and abnormal liver function , including elevations of transaminase , bilirubin ( direct and indirect ) , reduced serum albumin , and plasma fibrinogen can occur .
Evaluate bilirubin and transaminases at least weekly , during cycles of treatment that include ASPARLAS through 6 weeks after the last dose of ASPARLAS .
In the event of serious liver toxicity , discontinue treatment with ASPARLAS and provide supportive care [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common ( incidence ≥ 10 % ) grade ≥ 3 adverse reactions were elevated transaminase , bilirubin increased , pancreatitis , and abnormal clotting studies .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Servier Pharmaceuticals LLC at 1 - 800 - 807 - 6124 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Study DFCI 11 - 001 The safety of ASPARLAS was investigated in Study DFCI 11 - 001 , an open - label , randomized , active - controlled multicenter clinical trial that treated 237 children and adolescents with newly diagnosed ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma , with ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 ( n = 118 ) or pegaspargase 2 , 500 U / m2 ( n = 119 ) as part of a Dana - Farber Cancer Institute ( DFCI ) ALL Consortium backbone therapy .
The median age on enrollment was 5 years ( range , 1 - 20 years ) .
The majority of patients were male ( 62 % ) and white ( 70 % ) .
Most patients were considered standard risk ( SR , 59 % ) and had B - cell lineage ALL ( 87 % ) .
The median number of doses during the study was 11 doses for ASPARLAS ( administered every three weeks ) and 16 doses for pegaspargase ( administered every two weeks ) .
The median duration of exposure was 8 months for both ASPARLAS and pegaspargase .
There was 1 fatal adverse reaction ( multi - organ failure in the setting of chronic pancreatitis associated with a pancreatic pseudocyst ) .
Table 2 summarizes the incidence of selected grades ≥ 3 adverse reactions that occurred in 2 or more patients receiving ASPARLAS .
Because not all grade 1 and 2 adverse reactions were collected prospectively , only grade 3 and 4 adverse events are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Selected Grades ≥ 3 Adverse Reactions in Patients Receiving ASPARLAS with Multi - Agent Chemotherapy ( Study DFCI 11 - 001 ) [ 1 ] Adverse Reaction [ 2 ] ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 N = 118 Pegaspargase 2 , 500 U / m2 N = 119 Grades ≥ 3 n ( % ) [ 3 ] Grades ≥ 3 n ( % ) null Elevated transaminase 61 ( 52 ) 79 ( 66 ) Bilirubin increased 24 ( 20 ) 30 ( 25 ) Pancreatitis 21 ( 18 ) 29 ( 24 ) Abnormal clotting studies 17 ( 14 ) 25 ( 21 ) Diarrhea 10 ( 9 ) 6 ( 5 ) Hypersensitivity 9 ( 8 ) 8 ( 7 ) Embolic and thrombotic events 9 ( 8 ) 10 ( 8 ) Sepsis 6 ( 5 ) 7 ( 6 ) Dyspnea 5 ( 4 ) 1 ( 1 ) Hemorrhages 5 ( 4 ) 5 ( 4 ) Fungal infection 4 ( 3 ) 3 ( 3 ) Pneumonia 4 ( 3 ) 8 ( 7 ) Arrhythmia 2 ( 2 ) 1 ( 1 ) Cardiac failure 2 ( 2 ) 1 ( 1 ) [ 1 ] ASPARLAS or pegaspargase were administered as a component of multi - agent chemotherapy regimens .
[ 2 ] Grouped terms : Elevated transaminase : Alanine aminotransferase increased , Aspartate aminotransferase increased , Transaminases increased ; Bilirubin increased : Bilirubin conjugated increased , Blood bilirubin increased ; Pancreatitis : Amylase increased , Lipase increased , Pancreatic necrosis , Pancreatitis , Pancreatitis relapsing ; Abnormal clotting studies : Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged , Blood fibrinogen decreased ; Diarrhea : Colitis , Diarrhea , Enterocolitis , Neutropenic colitis ; Hypersensitivity : Anaphylactic reaction , Drug hypersensitivity , Hypersensitivity ; Embolic and thrombotic events SMQ : Device related thrombosis , Disseminated intravascular coagulation , Embolism , Intracardiac thrombus , Intracranial venous sinus thrombosis , Pulmonary embolism , Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis , Thrombosis in device , Venous thrombosis , Venous thrombosis limb ; Sepsis : Bacterial sepsis , Sepsis ; Dyspnea : Hypoxia , Respiratory failure ; Hemorrhages SMQ ( excludes laboratory terms ) : Disseminated intravascular coagulation , Epistaxis , Hematoma , Hemorrhage intracranial , Melena , Esophageal ulcer hemorrhage , Small intestinal hemorrhage , Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage ; Fungal infection : Fungal infection , Hepatic infection fungal , Respiratory tract infection fungal , Splenic infection fungal , Systemic candida ; Pneumonia : Lung infection , Pneumonia , Pneumonitis ; Arrhythmia : Atrioventricular block complete , Sinus tachycardia , Ventricular arrhythmia ; Cardiac failure : Ejection fraction decreased , Left ventricular dysfunction .
[ 3 ] Grading is based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) v4 . 0 .
In the subgroup of patients with B - cell lineage ALL , the complete remission rate in the ASPARLAS arm was 98 % ( 95 / 97 ) , compared to 99 % in the pegaspargase arm ; the Kaplan - Meier estimates of overall survival of the treatment arms were comparable .
Study AALL07P4 The safety of ASPARLAS was also evaluated in Study AALL07P4 , an open - label , randomized , active - controlled , multicenter clinical trial that treated patients with newly diagnosed high - risk B - precursor ALL using ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 ( n = 43 ) or 2 , 100 U / m2 ( n = 68 ) , or pegaspargase 2 , 500 U / m2 ( n = 52 ) , as a component of an augmented Berlin - Frankfurt - Münster ( BFM ) therapy regimen .
The median age was 11 years ( range , 1 - 26 years ) ; the median duration of exposure was 7 months for both ASPARLAS and pegaspargase .
In this study , the induction mortality of patients treated with ASPARLAS was 2 . 8 % ( 3 out of 111 ) ; there were no induction deaths among 52 patients treated with pegaspargase .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to ASPARLAS in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other asparaginase products may be misleading .
Immunogenicity was assessed using enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ( ELISA ) in Study DFCI 11 - 001 .
Of 98 evaluable patients treated with ASPARLAS , 15 ( 15 % ) patients developed new or an increased titer of anti - drug antibodies ( ADA ) during treatment ; 14 of these 15 patients were positive for anti - PEG antibodies .
The presence of ADA correlated with the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions .
There is insufficient information to determine whether the development of antibodies is associated with altered pharmacokinetics ( i . e . , loss of asparaginase activity ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on published literature studies with L - asparaginase in pregnant animals , ASPARLAS can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on ASPARLAS use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , intravenous administration of calaspargase pegol - mknl to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses 0 . 2 to 1 times the maximum recommended human doses did not result in adverse developmental outcomes .
Published literature studies in pregnant rabbits , however , suggest asparagine depletion may cause harm to the animal offspring ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study , calaspargase pegol - mknl was administered intravenously at doses of 75 , 150 , and 300 U / kg ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 6 and 1 times the maximum recommended human dose , respectively , based on AUC ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis .
Maternal toxicity of decreased body weight and food consumption was seen at all dose levels resulting in reductions in gravid uterine and placental weights , and slight reductions in fetal body weights .
No evidence of structural abnormalities or embryo - fetal mortality were observed in this study at any of the doses tested .
Published literature studies in which pregnant rabbits were administered L - asparaginase suggested harm to the animal offspring .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of calaspargase pegol - mknl in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ASPARLAS and for 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ASPARLAS can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ASPARLAS .
Contraception Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraceptive methods during treatment with ASPARLAS and for at least 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ASPARLAS in the treatment of ALL have been established in pediatric patients 1 month to < 17 years ( no data for the age group < 1 month old ) .
Use of ASPARLAS in these age groups is supported by evidence from an adequate and well - controlled trial with additional safety from a second trial .
The trials included 208 children with ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma treated with ASPARLAS ; there were 19 infants ( 1 month to < 2 years old ) , 128 children ( 2 years to < 12 years old ) , and 61 adolescents ( 12 years to < 17 years old ) .
There were no clinically meaningful differences in safety or nadir serum asparaginase activity across age groups [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Calaspargase pegol - mknl contains an asparagine specific enzyme derived from Escherichia coli , as a conjugate of L - asparaginase ( L - asparagine amidohydrolase ) and monomethoxypolyethylene glycol ( mPEG ) with a succinimidyl carbonate ( SC ) linker .
The SC linker is a chemically stable carbamate bond between the mPEG moiety and the lysine groups of L - asparaginase .
L - asparaginase is a tetrameric enzyme that is produced endogenously by E . coli and consists of identical 34 . 5 kDa subunits .
Approximately 31 to 39 molecules of SC - PEG are linked to L - asparaginase ; the molecular weight of each SC - PEG molecule is about 5 kDa .
The activity of ASPARLAS is expressed in units ( U ) .
ASPARLAS injection is supplied as a clear , colorless , preservative - free , isotonic sterile solution in phosphate - buffered saline , pH 7 . 3 that requires dilution prior to intravenous infusion .
Each vial of ASPARLAS contains 3 , 750 units in 5 mL of solution .
Each milliliter contains 750 units of calaspargase pegol - mknl ; dibasic sodium phosphate , USP ( 5 . 58 mg ) ; monobasic sodium phosphate , USP ( 1 . 20 mg ) ; and sodium chloride , USP ( 8 . 50 mg ) in water for injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action L - asparaginase is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the amino acid L - asparagine into aspartic acid and ammonia .
The pharmacological effect of ASPARLAS is thought to be based on the killing of leukemic cells due to depletion of plasma asparagine .
Leukemic cells with low expression of asparagine synthetase have a reduced ability to synthesize asparagine , and therefore depend on an exogenous source of asparagine for survival .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Calaspargase pegol - mknl pharmacodynamic ( PD ) response was assessed through measurement of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) asparagine concentrations via an LC - MS / MS assay .
Asparagine concentrations in plasma ( N = 41 ) were maintained below the assay limit of quantification for more than 18 days following a single dose of ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 during the induction phase .
Mean CSF asparagine concentrations decreased from a pretreatment concentration of 0 . 8 µg / mL ( N = 10 ) to 0 . 2 µg / mL on Day 4 ( N = 37 ) and remained decreased at 0 . 2 µg / mL ( N = 35 ) 25 days after the administration of a single dose of ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 in the induction phase .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Calaspargase pegol - mknl pharmacokinetics ( PK ) were assessed through measurement of plasma asparaginase activity via a coupled enzymatic assay .
The plasma asparaginase activity pharmacokinetics were characterized in 43 patients ( 1 to 26 years ) with newly diagnosed high risk B - precursor ALL treated with a multidrug backbone therapy .
Table 3 summarizes the plasma asparaginase activity pharmacokinetic parameters after a single dose of ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 in the induction phase .
Table 3 : Plasma Asparaginase Activity Pharmacokinetic Parameters After a Single Dose of ASPARLAS 2 , 500 U / m2 in Patients with ALL in Study AALL07P4Parameter Arithmetic Mean ( % CV ) N = 43 General Cmax ( U / mL ) 1 . 62 ( 23 . 0 ) AUC0 - 25 day ( day ∙ U / mL ) 16 . 9 ( 23 . 2 ) [ 1 ] AUC0 ∞ ( day ∙ U / mL ) [ 2 ] 25 . 5 ( 30 . 4 ) null Absorption Tmax ( h ) null 1 . 17 ( 1 . 05 , 5 . 47 ) [ 3 ] Distribution Vss ( L ) 2 . 96 ( 84 . 3 ) null Elimination t1 / 2 ( day ) [ 4 ] 16 . 1 ( 51 . 9 ) null Clearance ( L / day ) 0 . 147 ( 76 . 1 ) null [ 1 ] N = 42 evaluable subjects .
[ 2 ] Tmax generally near end of a 1 hour calaspargase pegol - mknl intravenous ( IV ) infusion .
[ 3 ] Median ( 10 th , 90 th percentiles ) .
[ 4 ] Plasma asparaginase activity pharmacokinetics are nonlinear following ASPARLAS administration .
Specific Populations The impact of renal and hepatic impairment on the PK of calaspargase pegol - mknl is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and impairment of fertility studies have not been conducted with calaspargase pegol - mknl .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia The determination of efficacy was based on a demonstration of the achievement and maintenance of nadir serum asparaginase activity ( NSAA ) above the level of 0 . 1 U / mL using ASPARLAS 2500 U / m2 intravenously every 3 weeks .
The pharmacokinetics of ASPARLAS were studied when used in combination with multiagent chemotherapy in 124 patients with B - cell lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
Among these patients , the median age was 11 . 5 years ( range , 1 - 26 ) ; 62 ( 50 % ) were male , 102 ( 82 % ) white , 6 ( 5 % ) Asian , 5 ( 4 % ) Black or African American , 2 ( 2 % ) Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander and 9 ( 7 % ) other or unknown .
The results showed that 123 ( 99 % , 95 % CI : 96 % - 100 % ) of the 124 patients maintained NSAA > 0 . 1 U / mL at weeks 6 , 12 , 18 , 24 , and 30 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ASPARLAS ( calaspargase pegol - mknl ) injection is supplied as a clear , colorless , preservative - free sterile solution in a single - dose vial containing 3 , 750 units of calaspargase pegol - mknl per 5 mL solution ( NDC 72694 - 515 - 01 ) .
Store ASPARLAS refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not shake or freeze product .
Unopened vials may be stored at room temperature ( 15 ° C to 25 ° C [ 59 ° F to 77 ° F ] ) for no more than 48 hours .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity Inform patients on the possibility of serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis .
Instruct the patient on the symptoms of allergic reactions and to seek medical advice immediately if they experience such symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pancreatitis Instruct patients on the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis and to seek immediate medical attention if they experience severe abdominal pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients on the risk of hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance .
Advise patients to seek medical advice if they experience excessive thirst or any increase in the volume or frequency of urination [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Thrombosis Instruct patients on the risk of thrombosis and to seek medical advice immediately if they experience severe headache , arm or leg swelling , shortness of breath , or chest pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hemorrhage Advise patients to report any unusual bleeding or bruising to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for jaundice , severe nausea or vomiting , or easy bruising or bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraception during treatment with ASPARLAS and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ASPARLAS and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Servier Pharmaceuticals LLC Boston , MA 02210 U . S . License No . 2125 ASPARLAS is a registered trademark of Servier IP UK Ltd , a wholly owned , indirect subsidiary of Les Laboratoires Servier .
Servier and the Servier logo are trademarks of Les Laboratoires Servier .
I - 008 - 21 - US - E ASP - 005 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Vial Carton NDC 72694 - 515 - 01 ASPARLAS ® calaspargase pegol - mknl Injection 3750 units / 5 mL ( 750 units / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Only One single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
Must dilute before use .
Rx ONLY SERVIER [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
