Drug Facts Active ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Anorectal / Astringent Uses • temporarily relieves the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas • temporarily relieves irritation and burning Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • rectal bleeding occurs • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Centre ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • open the lid on the top of the wipes pouch • peel back wipes seal , remove completely and discard • grab the top wipe at the edge of the center fold and pull out of pouch • close lid after each use to retain moisture • adults : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area • use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying topical hemorroidal treatments , and then discard .
Do Not Flush .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive heat Inactive ingredients alcohol , aloe vera leaf , citric acid , diazolidinyl urea , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate COMPARABLE TO PREPARATION H ACTIVE INGREDIENT Hemorrhoidal / Vaginal Wipes with Witch Hazel • Pre - moistened Cooling Wipes • Soothes & Comforts Irritated Areas • 6 IN x 5 IN ( 15 . 2 cm x 12 . 7 cm ) If for any reason you are not satisfied with this product , please return it to the store where purchased for a full refund .
Distributed By : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC • 407 East Lancaster Avenue , Wayne , Pa 19087 Other Uses : • For external vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• For use as a moist compress - if necessary , first cleanse the area .
Fold new wipe to desired size and place in contact with irritated area for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for up to 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF POUCH IS OPEN OR DAMAGED .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare , distributor of Preparation H ® Medicated Wipes .
** Decolorized .
Prop 65 .
Made in China Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
