SPL UNCLASSIFIED Rx only DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in famotidine injection is a histamine H 2 – receptor antagonist .
[ 1 - Amino - 3 - [ [ [ 2 - [ ( diaminomethylene ) amino ] - 4 - thiazolyl ] - methyl ] thio ] propylidene ] sulfamide .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Famotidine is a white to pale yellow crystalline compound that is freely soluble in glacial acetic acid , slightly soluble in methanol , very slightly soluble in water , and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Famotidine Injection , USP is supplied as a sterile concentrated solution for intravenous injection only .
Each mL of the solution contains 10 mg of famotidine and the following inactive ingredients : L - aspartic acid 4 mg , mannitol 20 mg , Water for Injection q . s . 1 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS GI Effects Famotidine is a competitive inhibitor of histamine H 2 – receptors .
The primary clinically important pharmacologic activity of famotidine is inhibition of gastric secretion .
Both the acid concentration and volume of gastric secretion are suppressed by famotidine , while changes in pepsin secretion are proportional to volume output .
In normal volunteers and hypersecretors , famotidine inhibited basal and nocturnal gastric secretion , as well as secretion stimulated by food and pentagastrin .
After oral administration , the onset of the antisecretory effect occurred within one hour ; the maximum effect was dose - dependent , occurring within one to three hours .
Duration of inhibition of secretion by doses of 20 and 40 mg was 10 to 12 hours .
After intravenous administration , the maximum effect was achieved within 30 minutes .
Single intravenous doses of 10 and 20 mg inhibited nocturnal secretion for a period of 10 to 12 hours .
The 20 mg dose was associated with the longest duration of action in most subjects .
Single evening oral doses of 20 and 40 mg inhibited basal and nocturnal acid secretion in all subjects ; mean nocturnal gastric acid secretion was inhibited by 86 % and 94 % , respectively , for a period of at least 10 hours .
The same doses given in the morning suppressed food - stimulated acid secretion in all subjects .
The mean suppression was 76 % and 84 % , respectively , 3 to 5 hours after administration , and 25 % and 30 % , respectively , 8 to 10 hours after administration .
In some subjects who received the 20 mg dose , however , the antisecretory effect was dissipated within 6 to 8 hours .
There was no cumulative effect with repeated doses .
The nocturnal intragastric pH was raised by evening doses of 20 and 40 mg of famotidine to mean values of 5 . 0 and 6 . 4 , respectively .
When famotidine was given after breakfast , the basal daytime interdigestive pH at 3 and 8 hours after 20 or 40 mg of famotidine was raised to about 5 .
Famotidine had little or no effect on fasting or postprandial serum gastrin levels .
Gastric emptying and exocrine pancreatic function were not affected by famotidine .
Other Effects Systemic effects of famotidine in the CNS , cardiovascular , respiratory or endocrine systems were not noted in clinical pharmacology studies .
Also , no antiandrogenic effects were noted ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Serum hormone levels , including prolactin , cortisol , thyroxine ( T 4 ) , and testosterone , were not altered after treatment with famotidine .
Pharmacokinetics Orally administered famotidine is incompletely absorbed and its bioavailability is 40 to 45 % .
Famotidine undergoes minimal first - pass metabolism .
After oral doses , peak plasma levels occur in 1 to 3 hours .
Plasma levels after multiple doses are similar to those after single doses .
Fifteen to 20 % of famotidine in plasma is protein bound .
Famotidine has an elimination half - life of 2 . 5 to 3 . 5 hours .
Famotidine is eliminated by renal ( 65 to 70 % ) and metabolic ( 30 to 35 % ) routes .
Renal clearance is 250 to 450 mL / min , indicating some tubular excretion .
Twenty - five to 30 % of an oral dose and 65 to 70 % of an intravenous dose are recovered in the urine as unchanged compound .
The only metabolite identified in man is the S - oxide .
There is a close relationship between creatinine clearance values and the elimination half - life of famotidine .
In patients with severe renal insufficiency , i . e . , creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min , the elimination half - life of famotidine may exceed 20 hours and adjustment of dose or dosing intervals in moderate and severe renal insufficiency may be necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ) .
In elderly patients , there are no clinically significant age - related changes in the pharmacokinetics of famotidine .
However , in elderly patients with decreased renal function , the clearance of the drug may be decreased ( see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
Clinical Studies The majority of clinical study experience involved oral administration of famotidine tablets , and is provided herein for reference .
Duodenal Ulcer In a U . S . multicenter , double - blind study in outpatients with endoscopically confirmed duodenal ulcer , orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo .
As shown in Table 1 , 70 % of patients treated with famotidine 40 mg h . s . were healed by week 4 .
Table 1 Outpatients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Duodenal Ulcers [ MULTIMEDIA ] ** Statistically significantly different than placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) Patients not healed by week 4 were continued in the study .
By week 8 , 83 % of patients treated with famotidine had healed versus 45 % of patients treated with placebo .
The incidence of ulcer healing with famotidine was significantly higher than with placebo at each time point based on proportion of endoscopically confirmed healed ulcers .
In this study , time to relief of daytime and nocturnal pain was significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; patients receiving famotidine also took less antacid than the patients receiving placebo .
Long - Term Maintenance Treatment of Duodenal Ulcers Famotidine , 20 mg p . o . h . s . was compared to placebo h . s . as maintenance therapy in two double - blind , multicenter studies of patients with endoscopically confirmed healed duodenal ulcers .
In the U . S . study the observed ulcer incidence within 12 months in patients treated with placebo was 2 . 4 times greater than in the patients treated with famotidine .
The 89 patients treated with famotidine had a cumulative observed ulcer incidence of 23 . 4 % compared to an observed ulcer incidence of 56 . 6 % in the 89 patients receiving placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
These results were confirmed in an international study where the cumulative observed ulcer incidence within 12 months in the 307 patients treated with famotidine was 35 . 7 % , compared to an incidence of 75 . 5 % in the 325 patients treated with placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Gastric Ulcer In both a U . S . and an international multicenter , double - blind study in patients with endoscopically confirmed active benign gastric ulcer , orally administered famotidine , 40 mg h . s . , was compared to placebo h . s . Antacids were permitted during the studies , but consumption was not significantly different between the famotidine and placebo groups .
As shown in Table 2 , the incidence of ulcer healing ( dropouts counted as unhealed ) with famotidine was statistically significantly better than placebo at weeks 6 and 8 in the U . S . study , and at weeks 4 , 6 and 8 in the international study , based on the number of ulcers that healed , confirmed by endoscopy .
Table 2 Patients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Gastric Ulcers [ MULTIMEDIA ] *** , † Statistically significantly better than placebo ( p ≤ 0 . 05 , p ≤ 0 . 01 respectively ) Time to complete relief of daytime and nighttime pain was statistically significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; however , in neither study was there a statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients whose pain was relieved by the end of the study ( week 8 ) .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo in a U . S . study that enrolled patients with symptoms of GERD and without endoscopic evidence of erosion or ulceration of the esophagus .
Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . was statistically significantly superior to 40 mg h . s . and to placebo in providing a successful symptomatic outcome , defined as moderate or excellent improvement of symptoms ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 % Successful Symptomatic Outcome [ MULTIMEDIA ] †† p ≤ 0 . 01 vs Placebo By two weeks of treatment , symptomatic success was observed in a greater percentage of patients taking famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . compared to placebo ( p ≤ 0 . 01 ) .
Symptomatic improvement and healing of endoscopically verified erosion and ulceration were studied in two additional trials .
Healing was defined as complete resolution of all erosions or ulcerations visible with endoscopy .
The U . S . study comparing famotidine 40 mg p . o . b . i . d . to placebo and famotidine 20 mg p . o . b . i . d . , showed a significantly greater percentage of healing for famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . at weeks 6 and 12 ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 % Endoscopic Healing – U . S . Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] ††† p ≤ 0 . 01 vs Placebo ‡ p ≤ 0 . 05 vs Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ‡‡ p ≤ 0 . 01 vs Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d .
As compared to placebo , patients who received famotidine had faster relief of daytime and nighttime heartburn and a greater percentage of patients experienced complete relief of nighttime heartburn .
These differences were statistically significant .
In the international study , when famotidine 40 mg p . o . b . i . d . was compared to ranitidine 150 mg p . o . b . i . d . , a statistically significantly greater percentage of healing was observed with famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . at week 12 ( Table 5 ) .
There was , however , no significant difference among treatments in symptom relief .
Table 5 % Endoscopic Healing - International Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] ‡‡‡ p ≤ 0 . 05 vs Ranitidine 150 mg b . i . d . Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , Multiple Endocrine Adenomas ) In studies of patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions such as Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome with or without multiple endocrine adenomas , famotidine significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion and controlled associated symptoms .
Orally administered doses from 20 to 160 mg q 6 h maintained basal acid secretion below 10 mEq / hr ; initial doses were titrated to the individual patient need and subsequent adjustments were necessary with time in some patients .
Famotidine was well tolerated at these high dose levels for prolonged periods ( greater than 12 months ) in eight patients , and there were no cases reported of gynecomastia , increased prolactin levels , or impotence which were considered to be due to the drug .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS Pharmacokinetics Table 6 presents pharmacokinetic data from published studies of small numbers of pediatric patients given famotidine intravenously .
Areas under the curve ( AUCs ) are normalized to a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg IV for pediatric patients and compared with an extrapolated 40 mg intravenous dose in adults ( extrapolation based on results obtained with a 20 mg IV adult dose ) .
Table 6 Pharmacokinetic Parameters a of Intravenous Famotidine [ MULTIMEDIA ] aValues are presented as means ± SD unless indicated otherwise .
bMean value only .
Values of pharmacokinetic parameters for pediatric patients , ages 1 to 15 years , are comparable to those obtained for adults .
Bioavailability studies of 8 pediatric patients ( 11 to 15 years of age ) showed a mean oral bioavailability of 0 . 5 compared to adult values of 0 . 42 to 0 . 49 .
Oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg achieved an AUC of 580 ± 60 ng - hr / mL in pediatric patients 11 to 15 years of age compared to 482 ± 181 ng - hr / mL in adults treated with 40 mg orally .
Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of famotidine were evaluated in 5 pediatric patients 2 to 13 years of age using the sigmoid E max model .
These data suggest that the relationship between serum concentration of famotidine and gastric acid suppression is similar to that observed in one study of adults ( Table 7 ) .
Table 7 Pharmacodynamics of famotidine using the sigmoid E maxmodel [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Serum concentration of famotidine associated with 50 % maximum gastric acid reduction .
Values are presented as means ± SD .
Four published studies ( Table 8 ) examined the effect of famotidine on gastric pH and duration of acid suppression in pediatric patients .
While each study had a different design , acid suppression data over time are summarized as follows : Table 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] aValues reported in published literature .
bMeans ± SD .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS & USAGE Famotidine injection , supplied as a concentrated solution for intravenous injection , is intended for intravenous use only .
Famotidine injection is indicated in some hospitalized patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions or intractable ulcers , or as an alternative to the oral dosage forms for short term use in patients who are unable to take oral medication for the following conditions : 1 .
Short term treatment of active duodenal ulcer .
Most adult patients heal within 4 weeks ; there is rarely reason to use famotidine at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks .
Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than 8 weeks .
2 .
Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of an active ulcer .
Controlled studies in adults have not extended beyond one year .
3 .
Short term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer .
Most adult patients heal within 6 weeks .
Studies have not assessed the safety or efficacy of famotidine in uncomplicated active benign gastric ulcer for periods of more than 8 weeks .
4 .
Short term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) .
Famotidine is indicated for short term treatment of patients with symptoms of GERD ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
Famotidine is also indicated for the short term treatment of esophagitis due to GERD including erosive or ulcerative disease diagnosed by endoscopy ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
5 .
Treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , multiple endocrine adenomas ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Cross sensitivity in this class of compounds has been observed .
Therefore , famotidine should not be administered to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other H 2 – receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONS General Symptomatic response to therapy with famotidine injection does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency , longer intervals between doses or lower doses may need to be used in patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) renal insufficiency to adjust for the longer elimination half - life of famotidine ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions No drug interactions have been identified .
Studies with famotidine in man , in animal models , and in vitro have shown no significant interference with the disposition of compounds metabolized by the hepatic microsomal enzymes , e . g . , cytochrome P450 system .
Compounds tested in man include warfarin , theophylline , phenytoin , diazepam , aminopyrine and antipyrine .
Indocyanine green as an index of hepatic drug extraction has been tested and no significant effects have been found .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 106 week study in rats and a 92 week study in mice given oral doses of up to 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 , 500 times the recommended human dose for active duodenal ulcer ) , there was no evidence of carcinogenic potential for famotidine .
Famotidine was negative in the microbial mutagen test ( Ames test ) using Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli with or without rat liver enzyme activation at concentrations up to 10 , 000 mcg / plate .
In in vivo studies in mice , with a micronucleus test and a chromosomal aberration test , no evidence of a mutagenic effect was observed .
In studies with rats given oral doses of up to 2 , 000 mg / kg / day or intravenous doses of up to 200 mg / kg / day , fertility and reproductive performance were not affected .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproductive studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at oral doses of up to 2 , 000 and 500 mg / kg / day , respectively , and in both species at IV doses of up to 200 mg / kg / day , and have revealed no significant evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to famotidine .
While no direct fetotoxic effects have been observed , sporadic abortions occurring only in mothers displaying marked decreased food intake were seen in some rabbits at oral doses of 200 mg / kg / day ( 250 times the usual human dose ) or higher .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Studies performed in lactating rats have shown that famotidine is secreted into breast milk .
Transient growth depression was observed in young rats suckling from mothers treated with maternotoxic doses of at least 600 times the usual human dose .
Famotidine is detectable in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from famotidine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Use of famotidine in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of famotidine in adults , and by the following studies in pediatric patients : In published studies in small numbers of pediatric patients 1 to 15 years of age , clearance of famotidine was similar to that seen in adults .
In pediatric patients 11 to 15 years of age , oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg were associated with a mean area under the curve ( AUC ) similar to that seen in adults treated orally with 40 mg .
Similarly , in pediatric patients 1 to 15 years of age , intravenous doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg were associated with a mean AUC similar to that seen in adults treated intravenously with 40 mg .
Limited published studies also suggest that the relationship between serum concentration and acid suppression is similar in pediatric patients 1 to 15 years of age as compared with adults .
These studies suggest that the starting dose for pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age is 0 . 25 mg / kg intravenously ( injected over a period of not less than two minutes or as a 15 minute infusion ) q 12 h up to 40 mg / day .
While published uncontrolled clinical studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine in the treatment of peptic ulcer , data in pediatric patients are insufficient to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy .
Therefore , treatment duration ( initially based on adult duration recommendations ) and dose should be individualized based on clinical response and / or gastric pH determination and endoscopy .
Published uncontrolled studies in pediatric patients have demonstrated gastric acid suppression with doses up to 0 . 5 mg / kg intravenously q 12 h . No pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic data are available on pediatric patients under 1 year of age .
Geriatric Use Of the 4 , 966 subjects in clinical studies who were treated with famotidine , 488 subjects ( 9 . 8 % ) were 65 and older , and 88 subjects ( 1 . 7 % ) were greater than 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
However , greater sensitivity of some older patients cannot be ruled out .
No dosage adjustment is required based on age ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Pharmacokinetics ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Dosage adjustment in the case of moderate or severe renal impairment is necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS , Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency and DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION , Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The adverse reactions listed below have been reported during domestic and international clinical trials in approximately 2 , 500 patients .
In those controlled clinical trials in which famotidine tablets were compared to placebo , the incidence of adverse experiences in the group which received famotidine tablets , 40 mg at bedtime , was similar to that in the placebo group .
The following adverse reactions have been reported to occur in more than 1 % of patients on therapy with famotidine in controlled clinical trials , and may be causally related to the drug : headache ( 4 . 7 % ) , dizziness ( 1 . 3 % ) , constipation ( 1 . 2 % ) and diarrhea ( 1 . 7 % ) .
The following other adverse reactions have been reported infrequently in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed .
The relationship to therapy with famotidine has been unclear in many cases .
Within each category the adverse reactions are listed in order of decreasing severity : Body as a Whole : fever , asthenia , fatigue Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , AV block , palpitation Gastrointestinal : cholestatic jaundice , liver enzyme abnormalities , vomiting , nausea , abdominal discomfort , anorexia , dry mouth Hematologic : rare cases of agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , angioedema , orbital or facial edema , urticaria , rash , conjunctival injection Musculoskeletal : musculoskeletal pain including muscle cramps , arthralgia Nervous System / Psychiatric : grand mal seizure ; psychic disturbances , which were reversible in cases for which follow - up was obtained , including hallucinations , confusion , agitation , depression , anxiety , decreased libido ; paresthesia ; insomnia ; somnolence Respiratory : bronchospasm Skin : toxic epidermal necrolysis ( very rare ) , alopecia , acne , pruritus , dry skin , flushing Special Senses : tinnitus , taste disorder Other : rare cases of impotence and rare cases of gynecomastia have been reported ; however , in controlled clinical trials , the incidences were not greater than those seen with placebo .
The adverse reactions reported for famotidine tablets may also occur with famotidine for oral suspension , famotidine orally disintegrating tablets , famotidine injection preservative free in plastic container or famotidine injection .
OVERDOSAGE There is no experience to date with deliberate overdosage .
Oral doses of up to 640 mg / day have been given to adult patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions with no serious adverse effects .
In the event of overdosage , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Unabsorbed material should be removed from the gastrointestinal tract , the patient should be monitored , and supportive therapy should be employed .
The intravenous LD 50 of famotidine for mice and rats ranged from 254 to 563 mg / kg and the minimum lethal single IV dose in dogs was approximately 300 mg / kg .
Signs of acute intoxication in IV treated dogs were emesis , restlessness , pallor of mucous membranes or redness of mouth and ears , hypotension , tachycardia and collapse .
The oral LD 50 of famotidine in male and female rats and mice was greater than 3 , 000 mg / kg and the minimum lethal acute oral dose in dogs exceeded 2 , 000 mg / kg .
Famotidine did not produce overt effects at high oral doses in mice , rats , cats and dogs , but induced significant anorexia and growth depression in rabbits starting with 200 mg / kg / day orally .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION In some hospitalized patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions or intractable ulcers , or in patients who are unable to take oral medication , famotidine injection may be administered until oral therapy can be instituted .
The recommended dosage for famotidine injection in adult patients is 20 mg intravenously q 12 h .
The doses and regimen for parenteral administration in patients with GERD have not been established .
Dosage for Pediatric Patients See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use .
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use suggest that the starting dose in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age is 0 . 25 mg / kg intravenously ( injected over a period of not less than two minutes or as a 15 minute infusion ) q 12 h up to 40 mg / day .
While published uncontrolled clinical studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine in the treatment of peptic ulcer , data in pediatric patients are insufficient to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy .
Therefore , treatment duration ( initially based on adult duration recommendations ) and dose should be individualized based on clinical response and / or gastric pH determination and endoscopy .
Published uncontrolled studies in pediatric patients have demonstrated gastric acid suppression with doses up to 0 . 5 mg / kg intravenously q 12 h . No pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic data are available on pediatric patients under 1 year of age .
Dosage Adjustments for Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency In adult patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) renal insufficiency , the elimination half - life of famotidine is increased .
For patients with severe renal insufficiency , it may exceed 20 hours , reaching approximately 24 hours in anuric patients .
Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency , to avoid excess accumulation of the drug in patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency , the dose of famotidine injection may be reduced to half the dose , or the dosing interval may be prolonged to 36 to 48 hours as indicated by the patient ’ s clinical response .
Based on the comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters for famotidine in adults and pediatric patients , dosage adjustment in pediatric patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency should be considered .
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , Multiple Endocrine Adenomas ) The dosage of famotidine in patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions varies with the individual patient .
The recommended adult intravenous dose is 20 mg q 12 h . Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue as long as clinically indicated .
In some patients , a higher starting dose may be required .
Oral doses up to 160 mg q 6 h have been administered to some adult patients with severe Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome .
Preparation of Intravenous Solutions To prepare famotidine intravenous solutions , aseptically dilute 2 mL of famotidine injection ( solution containing 10 mg / mL ) with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or other compatible intravenous solution ( see Stability ) , to a total volume of either 5 mL or 10 mL and inject over a period of not less than 2 minutes .
To prepare famotidine intravenous infusion solutions , aseptically dilute 2 mL of famotidine injection with 100 mL of 5 % dextrose or other compatible solution ( see Stability ) , and infuse over a 15 to 30 minute period .
Concomitant Use of Antacids Antacids may be given concomitantly if needed .
Stability Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
When added to or diluted with most commonly used intravenous solutions , e . g . , Water for Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % and 10 % Dextrose Injection , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , diluted famotidine injection is physically and chemically stable ( i . e . , maintains at least 90 % of initial potency ) for 7 days at room temperature – see HOW SUPPLIED , Storage .
When added to or diluted with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , 5 % , famotidine injection at a concentration of 0 . 2 mg / mL ( the recommended concentration of famotidine intravenous infusion solutions ) is physically and chemically stable ( i . e . , maintains at least 90 % of initial potency ) for 7 days at room temperature – see HOW SUPPLIED , Storage .
However , a precipitate may form at higher concentrations of famotidine injection ( > 0 . 2 mg / mL ) in Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , 5 % .
HOW SUPPLIED FAMOTIDINE INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1375 - 1 FAMOTIDINE INJECTION , USP 20 mg / 2 mL 2 mL VIAL HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
Famotidine Injection , USP , 10 mg per 1 mL is a non - preserved , clear , colorless solution .
Storage Store famotidine injection at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
If solution freezes , bring to room temperature ; allow sufficient time to solubilize all the components .
Although diluted famotidine injection has been shown to be physically and chemically stable for 7 days at room temperature , there are no data on the maintenance of sterility after dilution .
Therefore , it is recommended that if not used immediately after preparation , diluted solutions of famotidine injection should be refrigerated and used within 48 hours ( see DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ) .
This container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
SPL UNCLASSIFIED [ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 45884 F Revised : September 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 51662 - 1375 - 1 SERIALIZED LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 51662 - 1375 - 2 POUCH LABELING NDC 51662 - 1375 - 2 POUCH [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZED RFID LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
