1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium chloride extended - release capsules are indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia in adults and children with or without metabolic alkalosis , in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient .
Potassium chloride extended - release capsules contain potassium chloride , a potassium salt indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis , in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosage accordingly ( 2 . 1 ) If serum potassium concentration is < 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
( 2 . 1 ) Treatment of hypokalemia : • Adults : Typical doses range from 40 - 100 mEq / day in 2 - 5 divided doses ; limit doses to 40 mEq per dose .
( 2 . 2 ) • Pediatric patients : 2 - 4 mEq / kg / day in divided doses not to exceed 1 mEq / kg as a single dose or 20 mEq , whichever is lower ; if deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great , consider intravenous therapy .
( 2 . 3 ) Maintenance or Prophylaxis of hypokalemia : • Adults : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day ( 2 . 2 ) • Pediatric patients : Typical dose is 1 mEq / kg / day .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Administration and Monitoring If serum potassium concentration is < 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly .
Monitor serum potassium periodically during maintenance therapy to ensure potassium remains in desired range .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis requires careful attention to acid - base balance , volume status , electrolytes , including magnesium , sodium , chloride , phosphate , and calcium , electrocardiograms and the clinical status of the patient .
Correct volume status , acid - base balance and electrolyte deficits as appropriate .
Administration Take with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid .
Do not take on an empty stomach because of the potential for gastric irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules may sprinkle the contents of the capsule onto a spoonful of soft food .
The soft food , such as applesauce or pudding , should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of water or juice to ensure complete swallowing of the microcapsules .
Do not add to hot foods .
Any microcapsule / food mixture should be used immediately and not stored for future use .
2 . 2 Adult Dosing Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
Dosages greater than 40 mEq per day should be divided such that no more than 40 mEq is given in a single dose .
Treatment of hypokalemia : Typical dose range is 40 - 100 mEq per day .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day .
2 . 3 Pediatric Dosing Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old : Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
Do not exceed as a single dose 1 mEq / kg or 20 mEq , whichever is lower .
Treatment of hypokalemia : The recommended initial dose is 2 to 4 mEq / kg / day in divided doses .
If deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great , consider intravenous therapy .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose is 1 mEq / kg / day .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 600 mg ( 8 mEq ) : White to ivory opaque capsules printed with “ 102 ” in black ink on the cap .
750 mg ( 10 mEq ) : Light blue opaque capsules printed with “ 103 ” in black ink on the cap .
• Extended - release capsules : 600 mg ( 8 mEq ) and 750 mg ( 10 mEq ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients on amiloride or triamterene .
• Concomitant use with triamterene and amiloride .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Gastrointestinal Irritation : Take with meals ( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride can produce ulcerative and / or stenotic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract , particularly if the drug is in contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa for a prolonged period of time .
Consider the use of liquid potassium in patients with dysphagia , swallowing disorders , or severe gastrointestinal motility disorders .
If severe vomiting , abdominal pain , distention , or gastrointestinal bleeding occurs , discontinue potassium chloride extended - release capsules and consider possibility of ulceration , obstruction or perforation .
Potassium chloride extended - release capsules should not be taken on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified with use of oral potassium salts .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
There have been reports of hyperkalemia and of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation .
Skin rash has been reported rarely .
Most common adverse reactions are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the manufacturer Adare at 1 - 877 - 731 - 5116 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Triamterene and amiloride : Concomitant use is contraindicated ( 7 . 1 ) • Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone inhibitors : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 2 ) • Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDS ) : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Amiloride and Triamterene Use with triamterene or amiloride can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Concomitant use is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Renin - Angiotensin - Aldosterone Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin - aldosternone system ( RAAS ) including angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , spironolactone , eplerenone , or aliskiren produces potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Closely monitor potassium in patients taking drugs that inhibit RAAS .
7 . 3 Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) NSAIDs may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and impairing the renin - angiotensin system .
Closely monitor potassium in patients taking NSAIDS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Cirrhosis : Initiate therapy at the low end of the dosing range ( 8 . 6 ) • Renal Impairment : Initiate therapy at the low end of the dosing range ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no human data related to use of potassium chloride extended - release capsules during pregnancy and animal reproductive studies have not been conducted .
Potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia is not expected to cause fetal harm .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq per liter .
Since oral potassium becomes part of the body potassium pool , as long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Clinical trial data from published literature have demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of potassium chloride in children with diarrhea and malnutrition from birth to 18 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of potassium chloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Cirrhotics Based on published literature , the baseline corrected serum concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
Patients with cirrhosis should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range , and the serum potassium level should be monitored frequently [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment have reduced urinary excretion of potassium and are at substantially increased risk of hyperkalemia .
Patients with impaired renal function , particularly if the patient is on RAAS inhibitors or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range because of the potential for development of hyperkalemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
The serum potassium level should be monitored frequently .
Renal function should be assessed periodically .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result .
Hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 - 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - waves , depression of S - T segment , and prolongation of the QT - interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 - 12 mEq / L ) .
10 . 2 Treatment Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : • Monitor closely for arrhythmias and electrolyte changes .
• Eliminate foods and medications containing potassium and any agents with potassium - sparing properties such as potassium - sparing diuretics , ARBs , ACE inhibitors , NSAIDs , certain nutritional supplements , and many others .
• Administer intravenous calcium gluconate if the patient is at no risk or low risk of developing digitalis toxicity .
• Administer 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
• Correct acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
• Use exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis .
In patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
The extended - release feature means that absorption and toxic effects may be delayed for hours .
Consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
11 DESCRIPTION Potassium chloride extended - release capsules , USP , are an oral dosage form of microencapsulated potassium chloride containing 600 mg and 750 mg of potassium chloride , USP , equivalent to 8 mEq and 10 mEq of potassium , respectively .
The chemical name of the active ingredient is potassium chloride and the structural formula is KCl .
It has a molecular mass of 74 . 55 .
Potassium chloride , USP , occurs as a white granular powder or as colorless crystals .
It is odorless and has a saline taste .
Its solutions are neutral to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
Inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose , gelatin , magnesium stearate , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide and edible black ink .
The 10 mEq capsules also contain black iron oxide , FD & C blue No . 1 and FD & C red No . 3 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The potassium ion ( K + ) is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes , including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity ; the transmission of nerve impulses ; the contraction of cardiac , skeletal , and smooth muscle ; and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady - state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Each crystal of KCl is microencapsulated and allows for the controlled release of potassium and chloride ions over an eight to ten - hour period .
Specific Populations Cirrhotics Based on published literature , the baseline corrected serum - concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Potassium chloride extended - release capsules , USP , 10 mEq contain 750 mg of potassium chloride ( equivalent to 10 mEq , respectively ) .
Table 1 : How Supplied Each light blue capsule has 103 printed on it .
NDC 72789 - 057 - 01 Bottles of 100 NDC 72789 - 057 - 82 Bottles of 500 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure .
Rx only 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients to take each dose with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid .
• Advise patients to seek medical attention if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal toxicity is noticed .
Manufactured By : Adare Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Vandalia , OH 45377 Distributed By : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Iss .
10 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 750 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
