DESCRIPTION SURVANTA ® contains beractant , a pulmonary surfactant , which is a natural bovine lung extract containing phospholipids , neutral lipids , fatty acids , and surfactant - associated proteins ( SP ) to which colfosceril palmitate ( dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine ) , palmitic acid , and tripalmitin are added to standardize the composition and to mimic surface - tension lowering properties of natural lung surfactant .
The resulting composition provides 25 mg / mL of phospholipids ( including 11 . 0 - 15 . 5 mg / mL of disaturated phosphatidylcholine ) , 0 . 5 - 1 . 75 mg / mL of triglycerides , 1 . 4 - 3 . 5 mg / mL of free fatty acids , and less than 1 mg / mL of SP ( including SP - B , a 79 - amino acid protein , and SP - C , a 35 - amino acid peptide ) .
SURVANTA ( beractant ) intratracheal suspension is a sterile , preservative - free , non - pyrogenic off - white to light brown liquid supplied in single - dose glass vials for intratracheal use only .
Each vial contains 4 mL ( 100 mg phospholipids ) or 8 mL ( 200 mg phospholipids ) .
Each mL of SURVANTA contains 25 mg of phospholipids .
It is suspended in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride solution and heat - sterilized .
SURVANTA contains no preservatives .
Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust the pH . The pH is approximately 6 . 2 to 7 . 6 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Endogenous pulmonary surfactant lowers surface tension on alveolar surfaces during respiration and stabilizes the alveoli against collapse at resting transpulmonary pressures .
Deficiency of pulmonary surfactant causes Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) in premature infants .
SURVANTA replenishes surfactant and restores surface activity to the lungs of these infants .
Activity In vitro , SURVANTA reproducibly lowers minimum surface tension to less than 8 dynes / cm as measured by the pulsating bubble surfactometer and Wilhelmy Surface Balance .
In situ , SURVANTA restores pulmonary compliance to excised rat lungs artificially made surfactant - deficient .
In vivo , single SURVANTA doses improve lung pressure - volume measurements , lung compliance , and oxygenation in premature rabbits and sheep .
Animal Metabolism SURVANTA is administered directly to the target organ , the lungs , where biophysical effects occur at the alveolar surface .
In surfactant - deficient premature rabbits and lambs , alveolar clearance of radio - labelled lipid components of SURVANTA is rapid .
Most of the dose becomes lung - associated within hours of administration , and the lipids enter endogenous surfactant pathways of reutilization and recycling .
In surfactant - sufficient adult animals , SURVANTA clearance is more rapid than in premature and young animals .
There is less reutilization and recycling of surfactant in adult animals .
Limited animal experiments have not found effects of SURVANTA on endogenous surfactant metabolism .
Precursor incorporation and subsequent secretion of saturated phosphatidylcholine in premature sheep are not changed by SURVANTA treatments .
No information is available about the metabolic fate of the surfactant - associated proteins in SURVANTA .
The metabolic disposition in humans has not been studied .
CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical effects of SURVANTA were demonstrated in six single - dose and four multiple - dose randomized , multi - center , controlled clinical trials involving approximately 1700 infants .
Three open trials , including a Treatment IND , involved more than 8500 infants .
Each dose of SURVANTA in all studies was 100 mg phospholipids / kg birth weight and was based on published experience with Surfactant TA , a lyophilized powder dosage form of SURVANTA having the same composition .
SURVANTA significantly reduces the incidence of RDS , mortality due to RDS and air leak complications .
Prevention Studies Infants of 600 - 1250 g birth weight and 23 to 29 weeks estimated gestational age were enrolled in two multiple - dose studies .
A dose of SURVANTA was given within 15 minutes of birth to prevent the development of RDS .
Up to three additional doses in the first 48 hours , as often as every 6 hours , were given if RDS subsequently developed and infants required mechanical ventilation with an FiO2 ≥ 0 . 30 .
Results of the studies at 28 days of age are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Study 1 SURVANTA Control P - Value Number infants studied 119 124 Incidence of RDS ( % ) 27 . 6 63 . 5 < 0 . 001 Death due to RDS ( % ) 2 . 5 19 . 5 < 0 . 001 Death or BPD due to RDS ( % ) 48 . 7 52 . 8 0 . 536 Death due to any cause ( % ) 7 . 6 22 . 8 0 . 001 Air Leaksa ( % ) 5 . 9 21 . 7 0 . 001 Pulmonary interstitial emphysema ( % ) 20 . 8 40 . 0 0 . 001 Table 1 .
Study 2 b SURVANTA Control P - Value Number infants studied 91 96 Incidence of RDS ( % ) 28 . 6 48 . 3 0 . 007 Death due to RDS ( % ) 1 . 1 10 . 5 0 . 006 Death or BPD due to RDS ( % ) 27 . 5 44 . 2 0 . 018 Death due to any cause C ( % ) 16 . 5 13 . 7 0 . 633 Air Leaks a ( % ) 14 . 5 19 . 6 0 . 374 Pulmonary interstitial emphysema ( % ) 26 . 5 33 . 2 0 . 298 aPneumothorax or pneumopericardium bStudy discontinued when Treatment IND initiated cNo cause of death in the SURVANTA group was significantly increased ; the higher number of deaths in this group was due to the sum of all causes .
Rescue Studies Infants of 600 - 1750 g birth weight with RDS requiring mechanical ventilation and an FiO2 ≥ 0 . 40 were enrolled in two multiple - dose rescue studies .
The initial dose of SURVANTA was given after RDS developed and before 8 hours of age .
Infants could receive up to three additional doses in the first 48 hours , as often as every 6 hours , if they required mechanical ventilation and an FiO2 ≥ 0 . 30 .
Results of the studies at 28 days of age are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Study 3 a SURVANTA Control P - Value Number infants studied 198 193 Death due to RDS ( % ) 11 . 6 18 . 1 0 . 071 Death or BPD due to RDS ( % ) 59 . 1 66 . 8 0 . 102 Death due to any cause ( % ) 21 . 7 26 . 4 0 . 285 Air Leaksb ( % ) 11 . 8 29 . 5 < 0 . 001 Pulmonary interstitial emphysema ( % ) 16 . 3 34 . 0 < 0 . 001 Table 2 .
Study 4 SURVANTA Control P - Value Number infants studied 204 203 Death due to RDS ( % ) 6 . 4 22 . 3 < 0 . 001 Death or BPD due to RDS ( % ) 43 . 6 63 . 4 < 0 . 001 Death due to any cause ( % ) 15 . 2 28 . 2 0 . 001 Air Leaksb ( % ) 11 . 2 22 . 2 0 . 005 Pulmonary interstitial emphysema ( % ) 20 . 8 44 . 4 < 0 . 001 aStudy discontinued when Treatment IND initiated bPneumothorax or pneumopericardium Acute Clinical Effects Marked improvements in oxygenation may occur within minutes of administration of SURVANTA .
All controlled clinical studies with SURVANTA provided information regarding the acute effects of SURVANTA on the arterial - alveolar oxygen ratio ( a / APO2 ) , FiO2 , and mean airway pressure ( MAP ) during the first 48 to 72 hours of life .
Significant improvements in these variables were sustained for 48 - 72 hours in SURVANTA - treated infants in four single - dose and two multiple - dose rescue studies and in two multiple - dose prevention studies .
In the single - dose prevention studies , the FiO2 improved significantly .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE SURVANTA is indicated for prevention and treatment ( “ rescue ” ) of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) ( hyaline membrane disease ) in premature infants .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None WARNINGS SURVANTA can rapidly affect oxygenation and lung compliance within minutes of administration of SURVANTA .
Therefore , its use should be restricted to a highly supervised clinical setting with immediate availability of clinicians experienced with intubation , ventilator management , and general care of premature infants .
Infants receiving SURVANTA should be frequently monitored with arterial or transcutaneous measurement of systemic oxygen and carbon dioxide .
During the dosing procedure , transient episodes of bradycardia and decreased oxygen saturation have been reported .
If these occur , stop the dosing procedure and initiate appropriate measures to alleviate the condition .
After stabilization , resume the dosing procedure .
PRECAUTIONS General Rales and moist breath sounds can occur transiently after administration .
Endotracheal suctioning or other remedial action is not necessary unless clear - cut signs of airway obstruction are present .
Increased probability of post - treatment nosocomial sepsis in SURVANTA - treated infants was observed in the controlled clinical trials ( Table 3 ) .
The increased risk for sepsis among SURVANTA - treated infants was not associated with increased mortality among these infants .
The causative organisms were similar in treated and control infants .
There was no significant difference between groups in the rate of post - treatment infections other than sepsis .
Use of SURVANTA in infants less than 600 g birth weight or greater than 1750 g birth weight has not been evaluated in controlled trials .
There is no controlled experience with use of SURVANTA in conjunction with experimental therapies for RDS ( eg , high - frequency ventilation or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ) .
No information is available on the effects of doses other than 100 mg phospholipids / kg , more than four doses , dosing more frequently than every 6 hours , or administration after 48 hours of age .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with SURVANTA .
SURVANTA was negative when tested in the Ames test for mutagenicity .
Using the maximum feasible dose volume , SURVANTA up to 500 mg phospholipids / kg / day ( approximately one - third the premature infant dose based on mg / m2 / day ) was administered subcutaneously to newborn rats for 5 days .
The rats reproduced normally and there were no observable adverse effects in their offspring .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly reported adverse experiences were associated with the dosing procedure .
In the multiple - dose controlled clinical trials , each dose of SURVANTA was divided into four quarter - doses which were instilled through a catheter inserted into the endotracheal tube by briefly disconnecting the endotracheal tube from the ventilator .
Transient bradycardia occurred with 11 . 9 % of doses .
Oxygen desaturation occurred with 9 . 8 % of doses .
Other reactions during the dosing procedure occurred with fewer than 1 % of doses and included endotracheal tube reflux , pallor , vasoconstriction , hypotension , endotracheal tube blockage , hypertension , hypocarbia , hypercarbia , and apnea .
No deaths occurred during the dosing procedure , and all reactions resolved with symptomatic treatment .
The occurrence of concurrent illnesses common in premature infants was evaluated in the controlled trials .
The rates in all controlled studies are in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
All Controlled Studies Concurrent Event SURVANTA ( % ) Control ( % ) P - Valuea Patent ductus arteriosus 46 . 9 47 . 1 0 . 814 Intracranial hemorrhage 48 . 1 45 . 2 0 . 241 Severe intracranial hemorrhage 24 . 1 23 . 3 0 . 693 Pulmonary air leaks 10 . 9 24 . 7 < 0 . 001 Pulmonary interstitial emphysema 20 . 2 38 . 4 < 0 . 001 Necrotizing enterocolitis 6 . 1 5 . 3 0 . 427 Apnea 65 . 4 59 . 6 0 . 283 Severe apnea 46 . 1 42 . 5 0 . 114 Post - treatment sepsis 20 . 7 16 . 1 0 . 019 Post - treatment infection 10 . 2 9 . 1 0 . 345 Pulmonary hemorrhage 7 . 2 5 . 3 0 . 166 aP - value comparing groups in controlled studies When all controlled studies were pooled , there was no difference in intracranial hemorrhage .
However , in one of the single - dose rescue studies and one of the multiple - dose prevention studies , the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was significantly higher in SURVANTA patients than control patients ( 63 . 3 % v 30 . 8 % , P = 0 . 001 ; and 48 . 8 % v 34 . 2 % , P = 0 . 047 , respectively ) .
The rate in a Treatment IND involving approximately 8100 infants was lower than in the controlled trials .
In the controlled clinical trials , there was no effect of SURVANTA on results of common laboratory tests : white blood cell count and serum sodium , potassium , bilirubin , and creatinine .
More than 4300 pretreatment and post - treatment serum samples from approximately 1500 patients were tested by Western Blot Immunoassay for antibodies to surfactant - associated proteins SP - B and SP - C .
No IgG or IgM antibodies were detected .
Several other complications are known to occur in premature infants .
The following conditions were reported in the controlled clinical studies .
The rates of the complications were not different in treated and control infants , and none of the complications were attributed to SURVANTA .
Respiratory lung consolidation , blood from the endotracheal tube , deterioration after weaning , respiratory decompensation , subglottic stenosis , paralyzed diaphragm , respiratory failure .
Cardiovascular hypotension , hypertension , tachycardia , ventricular tachycardia , aortic thrombosis , cardiac failure , cardio - respiratory arrest , increased apical pulse , persistent fetal circulation , air embolism , total anomalous pulmonary venous return .
Gastrointestinal abdominal distention , hemorrhage , intestinal perforations , volvulus , bowel infarct , feeding intolerance , hepatic failure , stress ulcer .
Renal renal failure , hematuria .
Hematologic coagulopathy , thrombocytopenia , disseminated intravascular coagulation .
Central Nervous System seizures Endocrine / Metabolic adrenal hemorrhage , inappropriate ADH secretion , hyperphosphatemia .
Musculoskeletal inguinal hernia .
Systemic fever , deterioration .
Follow - Up Evaluations To date , no long - term complications or sequelae of SURVANTA therapy have been found .
Single - Dose Studies Six - month adjusted - age follow - up evaluations of 232 infants ( 115 treated ) demonstrated no clinically important differences between treatment groups in pulmonary and neurologic sequelae , incidence or severity of retinopathy of prematurity , rehospitalizations , growth , or allergic manifestations .
Multiple - Dose Studies Six - month adjusted age follow - up evaluations have been completed in 631 ( 345 treated ) of 916 surviving infants .
There were significantly less cerebral palsy and need for supplemental oxygen in SURVANTA infants than controls .
Wheezing at the time of examination was significantly more frequent among SURVANTA infants , although there was no difference in bronchodilator therapy .
Final twelve - month follow - up data from the multiple - dose studies are available from 521 ( 272 treated ) of 909 surviving infants .
There was significantly less wheezing in SURVANTA infants than controls , in contrast to the six - month results .
There was no difference in the incidence of cerebral palsy at twelve months .
Twenty - four month adjusted age evaluations were completed in 429 ( 226 treated ) of 906 surviving infants .
There were significantly fewer SURVANTA infants with rhonchi , wheezing , and tachypnea at the time of examination .
No other differences were found .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with SURVANTA has not been reported .
Based on animal data , overdosage might result in acute airway obstruction .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Rales and moist breath sounds can transiently occur after SURVANTA is given , and do not indicate overdosage .
Endotracheal suctioning or other remedial action is not required unless clear - cut signs of airway obstruction are present .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions For intratracheal administration only .
SURVANTA should be administered by or under the supervision of clinicians experienced in intubation , ventilator management , and general care of premature infants .
The administration of SURVANTA is facilitated if one person administers the dose while another person positions and monitors the infant .
Before administering SURVANTA , assure proper placement and patency of the endotracheal tube .
At the discretion of the clinician , the endotracheal tube may be suctioned before administering SURVANTA .
The infant should be allowed to stabilize before proceeding with dosing .
Administer SURVANTA intratracheally by instillation through a 5 French end - hole catheter .
Recommended Dosage Each dose of SURVANTA is 100 mg of phospholipids / kg birth weight ( 4 mL / kg ) .
In the prevention strategy , in premature infants with evidence of surfactant deficiency , give the first dose of SURVANTA as soon as possible , preferably within 15 minutes of birth .
To treat infants with RDS confirmed by radiographic and clinical findings , give the first dose of SURVANTA as soon as possible , preferably by 8 hours of age .
Four doses of SURVANTA can be administered in the first 48 hours of life .
Doses should be given no more frequently than every 6 hours .
The need for additional doses of SURVANTA is determined by evidence of continuing respiratory distress .
Radiographic confirmation of RDS should be obtained before administering additional doses to those who received a prevention dose .
Preparation of the SURVANTA Suspension SURVANTA should be inspected visually for discoloration prior to administration .
The color of SURVANTA is off - white to light brown .
If settling occurs during storage , swirl the vial gently ( DO NOT SHAKE ) to redisperse .
Do not filter SURVANTA .
Some foaming at the surface may occur during handling and is inherent in the nature of the product .
SURVANTA is stored refrigerated ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F [ 2 ° C to 8 ° C ] ) .
Date and time need to be recorded in the box on front of the carton or vial , whenever SURVANTA is removed from the refrigerator .
Before administration , SURVANTA should be warmed by standing at room temperature for at least 20 minutes or warmed in the hand for at least 8 minutes .
Artificial warming methods should not be used .
If a prevention dose is to be given , preparation of SURVANTA should begin before the infant ’ s birth .
Unopened , unused vials of SURVANTA that have been warmed to room temperature may be returned to the refrigerator within 24 hours of warming , and stored for future use .
SURVANTA SHOULD NOT BE REMOVED FROM THE REFRIGERATOR FOR MORE THAN 24 HOURS .
SURVANTA SHOULD NOT BE WARMED AND RETURNED TO THE REFRIGERATOR MORE THAN ONCE .
Each single - dose vial of SURVANTA should be entered only once .
Used vials with residual drug should be discarded .
SURVANTA does not require reconstitution or sonication before use .
Administration For endotracheal administration using a 5 French end - hole catheter : 1 .
Slowly withdraw the entire contents of the vial into a plastic syringe through a large - gauge needle ( e . g . , at least 20 gauge ) .
2 .
Attach the premeasured 5 French end - hole catheter to the syringe .
Fill the catheter with SURVANTA .
Discard excess SURVANTA through the catheter so that only the total dose to be given remains in the syringe .
3 .
When administering SURVANTA using a 5 French end - hole catheter , administer in four quarter - dose aliquots .
Each quarter - dose is administered with the infant in a different position : • Head and body inclined 5 - 10 ° down , head turned to the right • Head and body inclined 5 - 10 ° down , head turned to the left • Head and body inclined 5 - 10 ° up , head turned to the right • Head and body inclined 5 - 10 ° up , head turned to the left 4 .
First quarter - dose aliquot of SURVANTA suspension : a . Position the infant appropriately in one of the four recommended positions .
b . Insert the 5 - French end - hole catheter into the endotracheal tube .
The tip of the catheter should protrude just beyond the end of the endotracheal tube above the infant ’ s carina .
SURVANTA should not be instilled into a mainstem bronchus .
c . Gently inject the first quarter - dose aliquot through the catheter over 2 - 3 seconds .
d .
After the first aliquot is instilled , remove the catheter from the endotracheal tube and manually ventilate the infant for at least 30 seconds or until clinically stable .
Ventilate with sufficient oxygen to prevent cyanosis and sufficient positive pressure to provide adequate air exchange and chest wall excursion .
5 .
When the infant is stable , reposition the infant for instillation of the next quarter - dose .
6 .
Instill each remaining quarter - dose using the same procedures .
7 .
After instillation of the final quarter - dose , remove the catheter without flushing it .
Do not suction the infant for 1 hour after dosing unless signs of significant airway obstruction occur .
HOW SUPPLIED SURVANTA ( beractant ) intratracheal suspension is supplied in 100 mg / 4 mL single - dose glass vials ( NDC 0074 - 1040 - 04 ) or 200 mg / 8 mL single - dose glass vials ( NDC 0074 - 1040 - 08 ) .
Each mL contains 25 mg of phospholipids suspended in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride solution .
The color is off - white to light brown .
Store unopened vials refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
Do not shake .
Protect from light .
Store vials in carton until ready for use .
Vials are for one - time use and for only one patient .
Upon opening , discard unused drug .
LITHO IN USA AbbVie Inc .
North Chicago , IL 60064 , U . S . A . US License Number 1889 20065798 October , 2020 Principal Display Panel NDC 0074 - 1040 - 04 4 mL One Single - Dose Vial beractant SURVANTA ® intratracheal suspension 100 mg / 4 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) For Intratracheal Administration Only Sterile Suspension Store refrigerated between 36ºF to 46ºF ( 2ºC to 8ºC ) .
DO NOT SHAKE .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Rx only abbvie [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0074 - 1040 - 08 8 mL One Single - Dose Vial beractant SURVANTA ® intratracheal suspension 200 mg / 8 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) For Intratracheal Administration Only Sterile Suspension Store refrigerated between 36ºF to 46ºF ( 2ºC to 8ºC ) .
DO NOT SHAKE .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Rx only abbvie [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
