Rx Only DESCRIPTION Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % , containing adapalene is used for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
Each mL of Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % , contains adapalene 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) in a vehicle consisting of polyethylene glycol 400 and alcohol , denatured , 30 % ( w / v ) .
The chemical name of adapalene is 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid .
Adapalene is a white to off - white powder which is soluble in tetrahydrofuran , sparingly soluble in ethanol , and practically insoluble in water .
The molecular formula is C 28 H 28 O 3 and molecular weight is 412 . 52 .
Adapalene is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Adapalene is a chemically stable , retinoid - like compound .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization , and inflammatory processes all of which represent important features in the pathology of acne vulgaris .
Mechanistically , adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to the cytosolic receptor protein .
Although the exact mode of action is unknown , it is suggested that topical adapalene may normalize the differentiation of follicular epithelial cells resulting in decreased microcomedone formation .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption of adapalene through human skin is low .
Only trace amounts ( < 0 . 25 ng / mL ) of parent substance have been found in the plasma of acne patients following chronic topical application of adapalene in controlled clinical trials .
Excretion appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % should not be administered to individuals who are hypersensitive to adapalene or any of the components in the vehicle solution .
WARNINGS Use of Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is noted .
Patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation occurs , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of adapalene .
Patients who normally experience high levels of sun exposure , and those with inherent sensitivity to sun , should be warned to exercise caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with adapalene .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous skin , or sunburned skin .
Certain cutaneous signs and symptoms such as erythema , dryness , scaling , burning , or pruritus may be experienced during treatment .
These are most likely to occur during the first two to four weeks and will usually lessen with continued use of the medication .
Depending upon the severity of adverse events , patients should be instructed to reduce the frequency of application or discontinue use .
Drug Interactions As Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % has the potential to produce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohols , astringents , spices or lime ) should be approached with caution .
Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid in combination with Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % .
If these preparations have been used , it is advisable not to start therapy with Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene have been conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 3 , 0 . 9 , and 2 . 6 mg / kg / day and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day , approximately 4 - 75 times the maximal daily human topical dose .
In the oral study , positive linear trends were observed in the incidence of follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in the thyroid glands of female rats , and in the incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medullas of male rats .
No photocarcinogenicity studies were conducted .
Animal studies have shown an increased tumorigenic risk with the use of pharmacologically similar drugs ( e . g . , retinoids ) when exposed to UV irradiation in the laboratory or to sunlight .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should be advised to avoid or minimize exposure to either sunlight or artificial UV irradiation sources .
In a series of in vivo and in vitro studies , adapalene did not exhibit mutagenic or genotoxic activities .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C No teratogenic effects were seen in rats at oral doses of adapalene 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 120 times the maximal daily human topical dose .
Cutaneous route teratology studies conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 6 , 2 . 0 , and 6 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 150 times the maximal daily human topical dose exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in rats .
There are no adequate well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Adapalene should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Some adverse effects such as erythema , scaling , dryness , pruritus , and burning will occur in 30 - 60 % of patients .
Pruritus or burning immediately after application also occurs in approximately 30 % of patients .
The following additional adverse experiences were reported in approximately 1 % or less of patients : skin irritation , burning / stinging , erythema , sunburn , and acne flares .
These are most commonly seen during the first month of therapy and decrease in frequency and severity thereafter .
All adverse effects with the use of adapalene solution during clinical trials were reversible upon discontinuation of therapy .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rochester Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 866 - 458 - 1772 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % is intended for cutaneous use only .
If the medication is applied excessively , no more rapid or better results will be obtained and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
The acute oral toxicity of Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % in mice and rats is greater than 10 mL / kg .
Chronic ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of Vitamin A . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Remove swab from foil just before using .
Adapalene solution should be applied once a day to affected areas .
• Before retiring in the evening , wash and dry areas to be treated .
• Apply a thin film of medication to the affected areas .
Avoid the eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
• Discard swab after single use .
Do not use if seal is broken .
During the early weeks of therapy , an apparent exacerbation of acne may occur .
This is due to the action of the medication on previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy .
Therapeutic results should be noticed after eight to twelve weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % is supplied in the following size : 14 - count unit - of - use 1 . 2 g swab - NDC 49908 - 118 - 14 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
CAUTION Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Distributed by : Rochester Pharmaceuticals Doylestown , PA 18901 ROC - PI - 1218 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 14 Swab Carton NDC 49908 - 118 - 14 Rx Only Adapalene Topical Solution , 0 . 1 % For External Use Only • Avoid Contact With Eyes Rochester Pharmaceuticals Contains 14 Swabs [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
