DESCRIPTION Urea 39 . 5 % Cream is a keratolytic emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram contains 395 mg of urea in a vehicle consisting of : Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Ceteareth - 6 , Ceteareth - 25 , Cetyl Alcohol , Methylparaben , Paraffin , Propylene Glycol , Stearyl Alcohol , Xanthan Gum .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Urea gently dissolves the intracellular matrix which results in loosening of the horny layer of the skin and shedding of scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS & USAGE For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , ﬁbrinous or purulent debris or eshar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS FOREXTERNALUSEONLY . NOTFOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
General This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Information for Patients Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Urea 39 . 5 % to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by your physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Apply to diseased or damaged nail ( s ) twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Urea 39 . 5 % Cream 8 oz .
( 227 g ) : NDC 59088 - 698 - 16 STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep container tightly closed .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Urea 39 . 5 % Cream ™ Manufactured in the USA by : PureTek Corporation Panorama City , CA 91402 For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
