Drug Facts Active ingredient ( In Each Tablets ) Aspirin 325 mg Purpose pain reliever / fever reducer Use temporarily relieves fever and minor aches and pains associated with : • headache • colds • muscular aches • toothache • minor arthritis pain • menstrual cramps Warnings Reye ' s Syndrome Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu - like symptoms should not use this product .
When using this product , if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur , consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye ' s Syndrome , a rare but serious illness .
Allergy Warning Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include : • hives • facial swelling • asthma ( wheezing ) • shock Stomach bleeding warning This product contains a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you : • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • take other prescription or nonprescription drugs containing an NSAID ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use • If you are allergic to aspirin • with any other pain reliever / fever reducer • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer • for pain for more than 10 days or for fever for more than 3 days unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , or kidney disease • you are taking a diuretic • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for : • anticoagulation ( thinning of the blood ) • diabetes • gout • arthritis When using this product do not exceed recommended dose .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs • pain or fever persists or gets worse • new symptoms occur • redness or swelling is present If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
IT IS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT NOT TO USE ASPIRIN DURING THE LAST 3 MONTHS OF PREGNANCY UNLESS DEFINITELY DIRECTED TO DO SO BY A DOCTOR BECAUSE IT MAY CAUSE PROBLEMS IN THE UNBORN CHILD OR COMPLICATIONS DURING DELIVERY .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Take 2 tablets with water every 4 hours as needed , not to exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by doctor Children under 12 years of age : Ask a doctor .
Other Information • do not use if packet is opened or torn • Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients microcrytalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch Questions ?
1 - 866 - 651 - 3660 Monday - Friday 8 : 00 am - 5 : 00 pm EST PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 Tablet Packet Box Product # 1112 Aspirin Pain Reliever / Fever Reducer ( NSAID ) • Temporary relief from pain and fever • Soothes muscle aches and minor arthritis pain These quality comfort tablets are formulated and packaged for use in the workplace and meet ANSI Z308 . 1 - 2015 standards .
They are sealed in tamper - evident packets for safety and convenience .
50 Tablets • 2 Tablets Per Packet Manufactured for American Safety & First Aid Osceola , IN 46561 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
