Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 4 . 0 % , Oxybenzone 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only FLAMMABLE : • do not use near heat , flame or while smoking • avoid long term storage above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) Do not use • on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• keep away from face to avoid breathing it • do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask doctor if • rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Spray liberally and spread evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Hold can 4 - 6 inches away from the skin to apply • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray into hands then apply to face • Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in well ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad - spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain or damage some fabrics , materials or surfaces Inactive ingredients alcohol denat .
( 73 . 2 % v / v ) , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , stearoxytrimethylsilane , glycerin , diethylhexyl syringylidenemalonate , tocopherol ( vitamin E ) , fragrance , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A palmitate ) caprylic / capric triglyceride Up & Up Sport Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 NET WT 9 . 1 OZ ( 258 g ) NDC 11673 - 937 - 48 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
