THESE PRODUCTS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR USE AS DESCRIBED .
The individual products contained in this package should not be used alone or in combination for other purposes .
The information described in this labeling concerns only the use of these products as indicated in this combination package .
For information on use of the individual components when dispensed as individual medications outside this combined use for treating Helicobacter pylori , please see the package inserts for each individual product .
WARNING : POTENTIAL FOR CARCINOGENICITY Metronidazole has been shown to be carcinogenic in mice and rats .
It is unknown whether metronidazole is associated with carcinogenicity in humans ( see WARNINGS ) .
DESCRIPTION : HELIDAC Therapy consists of 112 bismuth subsalicylate 262 . 4 - mg chewable tablets , 56 metronidazole 250 - mg tablets , USP , and 56 tetracycline hydrochloride 500 - mg capsules , USP , for oral administration .
Bismuth subsalicylate chewable tablets : Each pink round tablet contains 262 . 4 mg bismuth subsalicylate ( 102 mg salicylate ) for oral administration .
Bismuth subsalicylate is a fine , white , odorless , and tasteless powder that is stable and non - hygroscopic .
It is a highly insoluble salt of trivalent bismuth and salicylic acid .
Bismuth subsalicylate is 2 - Hydroxybenzoic acid bismuth ( 3 + ) salt with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Each bismuth subsalicylate chewable tablet contains calcium carbonate , D & C Red No . 27 aluminum lake , magnesium stearate , mannitol , povidone , saccharin sodium , talc , and wintergreen flavor .
Metronidazole tablets , USP : Each round , white tablet contains 250 mg metronidazole .
Metronidazole is 2 - Methyl - 5 - nitroimidazole - 1 - ethanol , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Each metronidazole tablet contains colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose ( anhydrous ) , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , and microcrystalline cellulose .
Tetracycline hydrochloride capsules , USP : Each black and yellow capsule contains 500 mg tetracycline hydrochloride .
Tetracycline is a yellow , odorless , crystalline powder .
Tetracycline is stable in air but exposure to strong sunlight causes it to darken .
Its potency is affected in solutions of pH below 2 and is rapidly destroyed by alkali hydroxide solutions .
Tetracycline is very slightly soluble in water , freely soluble in dilute acid and in alkali hydroxide solutions , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in chloroform and ether .
Tetracycline hydrochloride is ( 4 S , 4 aS , 5 aS , 6 S , 12 aS ) - 4 - ( Dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 6 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - pentahydroxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 - naphthacenecarboxamide monohydrochloride , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Each tetracycline hydrochloride capsule contains lactose , magnesium stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate ; D & C yellow no . 10 , FD & C blue No 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , gelatin and titanium dioxide .
It may also contain benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , edetate calcium disodium , FD & C yellow no . 6 , methylparaben , propylparaben , silicon dioxide and sodium propionate .
The imprinting ink for tetracycline hydrochloride capsule contains titanium dioxide .
It may also contain dimethyl polysiloxane , distilled water , ethyl alcohol , ethylene glycol monoethyl ether , pharmaceutical glaze , pharmaceutical shellac , and soya lecithin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics : Pharmacokinetics for HELIDAC Therapy components ( bismuth subsalicylate chewable tablets , metronidazole tablets , and tetracycline hydrochloride capsules ) when coadministered has not been studied .
There is no information about the gastric mucosal concentrations of bismuth , metronidazole , and tetracycline after administration of these agents concomitantly or in combination with an acid suppressive agent .
The systemic pharmacokinetic information presented below is based on studies in which each product was administered alone .
Bismuth Subsalicylate : Upon oral administration , bismuth subsalicylate is almost completely hydrolyzed in the gastrointestinal tract to bismuth and salicylic acid .
Thus , the pharmacokinetics of bismuth subsalicylate following oral administration can be described by the individual pharmacokinetics of bismuth and salicylic acid .
Bismuth : Less than 1 % of bismuth from oral doses of bismuth subsalicylate is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract into the systemic circulation .
Absorbed bismuth is distributed throughout the body .
Bismuth is highly bound to plasma proteins ( > 90 % ) .
Bismuth has multiple disposition half - lives with an intermediate half - life of 5 to 11 days and a terminal half - life of 21 to 72 days .
Elimination of bismuth is primarily through urinary and biliary routes with a renal clearance of 50 ± 18 mL / min .
The mean trough blood bismuth concentration after 2 weeks oral administration of 787 mg bismuth subsalicylate ( 3 chewable tablets ) four times daily under fasted condition was 5 . 1 ± 3 . 1 ng / mL .
In another study , the mean trough blood bismuth concentration after 2 weeks oral administration of 525 mg bismuth subsalicylate ( as PEPTO - BISMOL ® liquid suspension ) four times daily was 5 ng / mL with the highest value being 32 ng / mL .
Salicylic Acid : More than 80 % of the salicylic acid is absorbed from oral doses of bismuth subsalicylate chewable tablets .
Salicylic acid is about 90 % plasma protein bound .
The volume of distribution is about 170 mL / kg of body weight .
Salicylic acid is extensively metabolized and about 10 % is excreted unchanged in the urine .
The metabolic clearance of salicylic acid is saturable ; accordingly , nonlinear pharmacokinetics is observed at bismuth subsalicylate doses above 525 mg .
Salicylic acid metabolic clearance is lower in females than in males .
The terminal half - life of salicylic acid upon a single oral dose of 525 mg bismuth subsalicylate is between 2 to 5 hours .
After a single oral dose of 525 mg bismuth subsalicylate ( 2 chewable tablets ) , the mean peak plasma salicylic acid concentration was 13 . 1 ± 3 . 4 mcg / mL under fasted condition .
The mean steady - state serum total salicylate concentration after 2 weeks oral administration of 525 mg bismuth subsalicylate ( as PEPTO - BISMOL liquid suspension ) four times daily was 24 mcg / mL with the highest value being 70 mcg / mL .
Metronidazole : Following oral administration , metronidazole is well absorbed , with peak plasma concentrations occurring between 1 and 2 hours after administration .
Plasma concentrations of metronidazole are proportional to the administered dose , with oral administration of 250 mg producing a peak plasma concentration of 6 mcg / mL .
Studies reveal no significant bioavailability differences between males and females ; however because of weight differences , the resulting plasma levels in males are generally lower .
Metronidazole is the major component appearing in the plasma , with lesser quantities of the 2 - hydroxymethyl metabolite also being present .
Less than 20 % of the circulating metronidazole is bound to plasma proteins .
Metronidazole also appears in cerebrospinal fluid , saliva , and human milk in concentrations similar to those found in plasma .
The average elimination half - life in normal volunteers is 8 hours .
The major route of elimination of metronidazole and its metabolites is via the urine ( 60 % to 80 % of the dose ) , with fecal excretion accounting for 6 % to 15 % of the dose .
The metabolites that appear in the urine result primarily from side - chain oxidation [ 1 - ( ß - hydroxyethyl ) - 2 - hydroxymethyl - 5 - nitroimidazole and 2 - methyl - 5 - nitroimidazole - 1 - yl - acetic acid ] and glucuronide conjugation , with unchanged metronidazole accounting for approximately 20 % of the total .
Renal clearance of metronidazole is approximately 10 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
Decreased renal function does not alter the single - dose pharmacokinetics of metronidazole .
In patients with decreased liver function , plasma clearance of metronidazole is decreased .
Tetracycline Hydrochloride : Tetracycline hydrochloride is absorbed ( 60 % - 90 % ) in the stomach and upper small intestine .
The presence of food , milk or cations may significantly decrease the extent of absorption .
In the plasma , tetracycline is bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
It is concentrated by the liver in the bile and excreted in the urine and feces at high concentrations in biologically active form .
Tetracycline hydrochloride is distributed into most body tissues and fluids .
It is distributed into the bile and undergoes varying degrees of enterohepatic recirculation .
Tetracycline hydrochloride tends to localize in tumors , necrotic or ischemic tissue , liver and spleen and form tetracycline - calcium orthophosphate complexes at sites of new bone formation or tooth development .
Tetracycline readily crosses the placenta and is excreted in high amounts in breast milk ( see WARNINGSand PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers ) .
Tetracyclines are readily absorbed and are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
They are concentrated by the liver in the bile and excreted in the urine and feces at high concentrations in a biologically active form .
The relative contribution of systemic versus local antimicrobial activity against H . pylori for agents used in eradication therapy has not been established .
Microbiology : Mechanism of Action HELIDAC Therapy is a combination of antibacterial agents ( metronidazole and tetracycline hydrochloride ) and bismuth subcitrate potassium .
Tetracycline hydrochloride interacts with the 30 S subunit of the bacterial ribosome and inhibits protein synthesis .
Metronidazole ' s antibacterial mechanism of action in an anaerobic environment is not fully understood but a possible mechanism includes reduction by intracellular electron transport proteins after entry into the organism .
Because of this alteration to the metronidazole molecule , a concentration gradient is created and maintained which promotes the drug ' s intracellular transport .
Presumably , free radicals are formed which , in turn , react with cellular components resulting in death of bacteria .
The antibacterial action of bismuth salts is not well understood .
Activity In Vitro and In Vivo HELIDAC Therapy has been shown to be active against most isolates of Helicobacter pylori both in vitro , and in clinical infections as described in the CLINICAL STUDIESand INDICATIONS AND USAGEsections .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : The components of HELIDAC Therapy ( bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride ) , in combination with an H2 antagonist , are indicated for the eradication of H . pylori for treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease ( active or a history of duodenal ulcer ) .
The eradication of H . pylori has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in patients with active duodenal ulcer disease ( see CLINICAL STUDIESand DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness HELIDAC Therapy and other antibacterial drugs , HELIDAC Therapy should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Methoxyflurane Do not administer methoxyflurane to patients HELIDAC Therapy .
The concurrent use of tetracycline hydrochloride , a component of HELIDAC Therapy with methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Disulfiram HELIDAC Therapy is contraindicated in patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks .
Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients who are using metronidazole , a component of HELIDAC Therapy and disulfiram concurrently ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Alcohol Alcoholic beverages or other products containing propylene glycol should not be consumed during and for at least 3 days after usage of HELIDAC Therapy .
A disulfiram - like reaction ( abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing ) may occur due to the interaction between alcohol or propylene glycol and metronidazole , a component of HELIDAC Therapy ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Renal Impairment HELIDAC Therapy is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment .
The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In patients with significantly impaired renal function , higher serum concentrations of tetracyclines may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
Hypersensitivity Reactions HELIDAC Therapy is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . urticaria , erythematous rash , flushing , and fever ) to bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives , or tetracycline ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Allergy to Aspirin or other Salicylates HELIDAC Therapy should not be administered to those patients who have a known allergy to aspirin or salicylates .
WARNINGS : Potential for Carcinogenicity Metronidazole has been shown to be carcinogenic in mice and rats .
Tumors affecting the liver , lungs , mammary and lymphatic tissues have been detected in several studies of metronidazole in rats and mice , but not hamsters ( see PRECAUTIONS , Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) .
It is unknown whether metronidazole is associated with carcinogenicity in humans .
Fetal Toxicity There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of HELIDAC Therapy in pregnant women .
However , tetracycline can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
The use of drugs of the tetracycline class during the second and third trimester of pregnancy can also cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray brown ) and possibly inhibit bone development ( See WARNINGS ) .
Administration of oral tetracycline to pregnant rats at various doses resulted in yellow fluorescence in teeth and bones in the newborn animals .
Metronidazole usage in pregnancy has been evaluated in numerous studies .
In one of these studies , an increased risk of cleft lip , with or without cleft palate , was noted in infants exposed to metronidazole in – utero ; however these findings were not confirmed .
If HELIDAC Therapy is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking HELIDAC Therapy , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
Maternal Toxicity Tetracycline administered during pregnancy at high doses ( > 2 g IV ) was associated with rare but serious cases of maternal hepatotoxicity .
This syndrome may result in stillborn or premature birth due to maternal pathology ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Tooth Enamel Discoloration and Hypoplasia The use of drugs of the tetracycline class during tooth development ( last half of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drug , but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
HELIDAC Therapy , therefore , should not be used in this age group unless other drugs are not likely to be effective or are contraindicated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Metronidazole : Cases of convulsive seizures , encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy ( including optic neuropathy ) have been reported with metronidazole .
Encephalopathy has been reported in association with cerebellar toxicity characterized by ataxia , dizziness , and dysarthria .
CNS lesions seen on MRI have been described in reports of encephalopathy .
CNS symptoms are generally reversible within days to weeks upon discontinuation of metronidazole .
CNS lesions seen on MRI have also been described as reversible .
Peripheral neuropathy , mainly of sensory type has been reported and is characterized by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity .
Cases of aseptic meningitis have been reported with metronidazole .
Symptoms can occur within hours of dose administration and generally resolve after metronidazole therapy is discontinued .
Tetracycline : Intracranial hypertension ( IH , pseudotumor cerebri ) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines .
Clinical manifestations of IH include headache , blurred vision , diplopia , and vision loss ; papilledema can be found on fundoscopy .
Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at greater risk for developing tetracycline associated IH .
Concomitant use of isotretinoin should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause IH .
Although IH typically resolves after discontinuation of treatment , the possibility for permanent visual loss exists .
If visual disturbance occurs during treatment , prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted .
Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation , patients should be monitored until they stabilize .
Bismuth - containing products : Cases of neurotoxicity associated with excessive doses of various bismuth - containing products , including bismuth subsalicylate have been reported .
Effects have been reversible with discontinuation of therapy .
The appearance of abnormal neurologic signs and symptoms demands the prompt evaluation of the benefit / risk ratio of the continuation of therapy ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Risk of Reye ’ s syndrome Use of HELIDAC Therapy is not recommended in children and teenagers who have or who are recovering from varicella ( chicken pox ) or influenza due to the risk of Reye ’ s syndrome , a rare but serious illness .
If HELIDAC Therapy is used in this population and nausea or vomiting is present , patients are advised to consult a doctor because this could be an early sign of Reye ’ s syndrome .
Cutaneous Reactions Skin and subcutaneous disorders including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS syndrome ( drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ) have been reported .
Discontinue treatment at the first evidence of a cutaneous reaction ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS : Development of Superinfections Known or previously unrecognized candidiasis may present more prominent symptoms during therapy with metronidazole and requires treatment with an antifungal agent .
As with other antibiotics , use of tetracycline hydrochloride may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs discontinue HELIDAC Therapy and institute appropriate therapy .
Photosensitivity Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs .
Instruct patients taking HELIDAC Therapy to avoid exposure to the sun or sun lamps .
Treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema .
Darkening of the Tongue and / or Black Stool Bismuth subsalicylate may cause a temporary and harmless darkening of the tongue and / or black stool , generally reversible within several days after treatment is stopped ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Stool darkening should not be confused with melena .
Use in Patients with Blood Dyscrasias Metronidazole is a nitroimidazole and should be used with caution in patients with evidence of , or history of , blood dyscrasia .
A mild leukopenia has been observed during its administration ; however , no persistent hematologic abnormalities attributable to metronidazole have been observed in clinical studies .
Total and differential leukocyte counts are recommended before and after therapy ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Increased Plasma Concentrations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment metabolize metronidazole slowly , with resultant accumulation of metronidazole in the plasma .
Use HELIDAC Therapy with caution in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
HELIDAC Therapy may not be appropriate for patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONand CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Laboratory Test Interactions Bismuth absorbs x - rays and may interfere with x - ray diagnostic procedures of the gastrointestinal tract .
Bismuth subsalicylate may cause a temporary and harmless darkening of the stool .
However , this change does not interfere with standard tests for occult blood .
Metronizadole may interfere with certain types of determinations of serum chemistry values , such as aspartate aminotransferase ( AST , SGOT ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT , SGPT ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , triglycerides , and hexokinase glucose .
Values of zero may be observed .
All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation - reduction of nicotinamide ( NAD + < = > NADH ) .
Interference is due to the similarity in absorbance peaks of NADH ( 340 nm ) and metronidazole ( 322 nm ) at pH 7 .
Development of Drug Resistant Bacteria Prescribing HELIDAC Therapy in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : Pregnant Women Advise pregnant women that HELIDAC Therapy can cause fetal harm .
Tetracycline use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray brown ) and may inhibit bone development and metronidazole has been shown in one study to increase the risk of cleft lip with or without cleft palate ( see WARNINGS ) .
Human Milk Feeding Advise women to avoid feeding their infants with their milk during HELIDAC Therapy .
Women should either discontinue feeding or pump and discard their milk during treatment and for 24 hours after the last dose ( see PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers ) .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that HELIDAC Therapy may cause allergic reactions and to discontinue HELIDAC Therapy at the first sign of urticaria , erythematous rash , flushing , and fever or other symptoms of an allergic reaction ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Central Nervous System Effects Inform patients of the risk of central and peripheral nervous system effects with HELIDAC Therapy and to discontinue HELIDAC Therapy and report immediately to their health - care provider if any neurologic symptoms occur ( see WARNINGS ) .
Photosensivity Avoid exposure to sun or sun lamps while taking HELIDAC Therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Drug Interactions Patients should be advised to report to their doctor the use of any other medications while taking HELIDAC Therapy .
The administration of any of the following drugs with HELIDAC Therapy may result in clinically significant adverse reactions or insufficient drug efficacies ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
• Methoxyflurane • Disulfiram • Alcoholic Beverages , or Products Containing Propylene Glycol • Oral Contraceptives • Anticoagulants • Lithium • Antacids , Multivitamins , or Dairy Products • Antidiabetic agents • Aspirin • Probenecid or Sulfinpyrazone • Cimetidine • Phenytoinor Phenobarbital Darkening of the Tongue and / or Stool HELIDAC Therapy may cause temporary and harmless darkening of the tongue and / or black stool and is generally reversible within several days after treatment is stopped .
Stool darkening should not be confused with melena ( blood in the stool ) ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Dosing and Administration Information Each dose includes 4 pills : 2 pink round chewable tablets ( bismuth subsalicylate ) , 1 white round tablet ( metronidazole ) , and 1 black and yellow capsule ( tetracycline hydrochloride ) .
Each dose ( all 4 pills ) should be taken 4 times a day , at mealtimes and bedtime .
Patients should be instructed to chew and swallow the pink round tablets ( bismuth subsalicylate tablets ) and to swallow the white round tablet ( metronidazole tablet ) and the black and yellow capsule ( tetracycline hydrochloride capsule ) whole with a full glass of water ( 8 ounces ) .
Concomitantly prescribed H2 antagonist therapy should be taken as directed .
Missed doses can be made up by continuing the normal dosing schedule until the medication is gone .
Patients should not take double doses .
( If more than 4 doses are missed , the prescriber should be contacted ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Salicylate Toxicity HELIDAC Therapy contains salicylates .
If taken with aspirin and ringing in the ears occurs , the prescriber should be consulted concerning discontinuation of the aspirin therapy until the HELIDAC Therapy is completed ( see OVERDOSAGE , WARNINGS , and DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including HELIDAC Therapy , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When HELIDAC Therapy is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by HELIDAC Therapy or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Methoxyflurane Do not administer methoxyflurane to patients taking HELIDAC Therapy .
The concurrent use of tetracycline hydrochloride , a component of HELIDAC Therapy , with methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
?
Disulfiram Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients who are using metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently .
HELIDAC Therapy should not be given to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Alcohol Consumption of alcoholic beverages or administration of other products containing propylene glycol during treatment with HELIDAC Therapy and for at least 3 days afterwards may cause a disulfiram - like reaction ( abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing ) due to the interaction between alcohol or propylene glycol and metronidazole , a component of HELIDAC Therapy .
Discontinue alcoholic beverage or other products containing propylene glycol during and for at least 3 days after therapy with HELIDAC Therapy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Oral Contraceptives Concurrent use of HELIDAC Therapy with oral contraceptive may make oral contraceptives less effective due to an interaction with the tetracycline component of HELIDAC Therapy .
Breakthrough bleeding has been reported .
Women of child - bearing potential should use a different or additional form of contraception while taking HELIDAC Therapy .
Anticoagulants HELIDAC Therapy may alter the anticoagulant effects of warfarin and other oral coumarin anticoagulants .
Salicylates may cause an increased risk of bleeding when administered with anticoagulant therapy .
Metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin , and other oral coumarin anticoagulants , resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time .
Tetracycline has been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity .
Prothrombin time , International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) , or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be closely monitored if HELIDAC Therapy is administered concomitantly with warfarin .
Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding .
Lithium In patients stabilized on relatively high doses of lithium , short - term use of HELIDAC Therapy may cause elevation of serum lithium concentrations and signs of lithium toxicity due to the interaction between metronidazole and lithium .
Serum lithium and serum creatinine concentrations should be monitored several days after beginning treatment with HELIDAC Therapy to detect any increase that may precede clinical symptoms of lithium toxicity .
Antacids , Multivitamins , or Dairy Products The absorption of HELIDAC Therapy may be reduced if administered with antacids containing aluminium , calcium , or magnesium ; preparations containing iron , zinc , or sodium bicarbonate ; or milk or dairy products due to the interaction between these products and tetracycline .
These products should not be consumed concomitantly with HELIDAC Therapy .
However , the clinical significance of reduced tetracycline systemic exposure is unknown as the relative contribution of systemic versus local antimicrobial activity against Helicobacter pylori has not been established .
Antidiabetic agents , Aspirin , Probenecid , or Sulfinpyrazone Caution is advised in the administration of bismuth subsalicylate to patients taking medication for diabetes ( possible enhanced hypoglycemic effect when given with salicylates ) or patients taking aspirin ( may increase the risk of salicylate toxicity ) , probenecid , or sulfinpyrazone ( uricosuric effects of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be decreased ) ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS ) .
Busulfan Metronidazole has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of busulfan , which can result in an increased risk for serious busulfan toxicity .
HELIDAC Therapy should not be administered concomitantly with busulfan unless the benefit outweighs the risk .
If no therapeutic alternatives to HELIDAC Therapy are available , and concomitant administration with busulfan is medically needed , frequent monitoring of busulfan plasma concentration should be performed and the busulfan dose should be adjusted accordingly .
Inhibitors of CYP450 liver enzymes The simultaneous administration of HELIDAC Therapy and drugs that inhibit microsomal liver enzymes , such as cimetidine , may result in a prolonged half - life and decreased plasma clearance of metronidazole .
Inducers of CYP450 liver enzymes The simultaneous administration of HELIDAC Therapy and drugs that induce microsomal liver enzymes , such as phenytoin or phenobarbital , may accelerate the elimination of metronidazole , resulting in reduced plasma concentrations of metronidazole .
Impaired clearance of phenytoin has also been reported in this situation .
Monitor phenytoin concentrations during treatment with HELIDAC Therapy .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long - term studies have been performed to evaluate the effect of HELIDAC Therapy on carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Bismuth subsalicylate No long - term toxicity studies have been conducted with bismuth subsalicylate .
Bismuth did not show mutagenic potential in the NTP salmonella plate assay .
No reproductive toxicity studies have been conducted with bismuth subsalicylate .
Metronidazole Metronidazole has shown evidence of carcinogenic activity in a number of studies involving chronic , oral administration in mice and rats .
Prominent among the effects in the mouse was an increased incidence of pulmonary tumorigenesis .
This has been observed in all six reported studies in that species , including one study in which the animals were dosed on an intermittent schedule ( administration during every fourth week only ) .
At the highest dose levels , ( approximately 500 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 1 . 6 times the indicated human dose for a 60 kg adult based on body surface area ) there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of malignant liver tumors in male mice .
Also , the published results of one of the mouse studies indicate an increase in the incidence of malignant lymphomas as well as pulmonary neoplasms associated with lifetime feeding of the drug .
All these effects are statistically significant .
Long - term , oral - dosing studies in the rat showed statistically significant increases in the incidence of various neoplasms , particularly in mammary and hepatic tumors , among female rats administered metronidazole over those noted in the concurrent female control groups .
Two lifetime tumorigenicity studies in hamsters have been performed and reported to be negative .
Although metronidazole has shown mutagenic activity in a number of in vitro assay systems , studies in mammals ( in vivo ) have failed to demonstrate a potential for genetic damage .
Fertility studies have been conducted with male rats and mice with divergent results .
Metronidazole , at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the indicated human dose based on mg / m2 ) for 28 days , failed to produce any adverse effects on fertility and testicular function in male rats .
In another study where rats were treated with up to 400 mg / kg / day for 8 weeks , there was severe degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium in the testes which was associated with a marked decrease in testicular spermatid counts and epididymal sperm counts and a marked decrease in fecundity .
These effects were partially reversible .
Fertility studies have been performed in male mice at doses up to six times the maximum recommended human dose based upon mg / m2 and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
Another fertility study was performed in male mice at oral doses of 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 times the indicated human dose based on mg / m ² ) for 14 days .
Metronidazole significantly decreased testes and epididymides weight , decreased sperm viability , and increased the incidence of abnormal sperm .
The viability of sperm was normal by 2 months after the start of the treatment .
Tumors affecting the liver , lungs , mammary , and lymphatic tissues have been detected in several studies of metronidazole in rats and mice , but not hamsters .
Pulmonary tumors have been observed in all six reported studies in the mouse , including one study in which the animals were dosed on an intermittent schedule ( administration during every fourth week only ) .
Malignant liver tumors were increased in male mice treated at approximately 1500 mg / m2 ( similar to the maximum recommended daily dose , based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Malignant lymphomas and pulmonary neoplasms were also increased with lifetime feeding of the drug to mice .
Mammary and hepatic tumors were increased among female rats administered oral metronidazole compared to concurrent controls .
Two lifetime tumorigenicity studies in hamsters have been performed and reported to be negative .
Metronidazole has shown mutagenic activity in in vitro assay systems including the Ames test .
Studies in mammals in vivo have failed to demonstrate a potential for genetic damage .
Metronidazole failed to produce any adverse effects on fertility or testicular function in male rats at doses up at 400 mg / kg / day ( similar to the maximum recommended clinical dose , based on body surface area comparisons ) for 28 days .
However , rats treated at the same dose for 6 weeks or longer were infertile and showed severe degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium in the testes as well as marked decreases in testicular spermatid counts and epididymal sperm counts .
Fertility was restored in most rats after an eight week , drug - free recovery period .
Tetracycline hydrochloride There has been no evidence of carcinogenicity for tetracycline hydrochloride in studies conducted with rats and mice .
Some related antibiotics ( oxytetracycline , minocycline ) have shown evidence of oncogenic activity in rats .
There was evidence of mutagenicity by tetracycline hydrochloride in two in vitro mammalian cell assay systems ( L51784y mouse lymphoma and Chinese hamster lung cells ) .
Tetracycline hydrochloride had no effect on fertility when administered in the diet to male and female rats at a daily intake of 25 times the human dose .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D HELIDAC Therapy contains bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of HELIDAC Therapy in pregnant women .
However , tetracycline can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
The use of tetracycline during the second and third trimester of pregnancy can also cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow gray brown ) and possibly inhibit bone development .
Administration of oral tetracycline to pregnant rats at various doses resulted in yellow fluorescence in teeth and bones in the newborn animals .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ( see WARNINGS ) .
The available human and animal data are summarized below for each of HELIDAC Therapy ' s active ingredients : Tetracycline Published case reports have described the yellowing of bones and teeth in human infants exposed to tetracycline during the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
The yellowing is caused by the direct deposition of tetracycline during the mineralization process .
This discoloration is more common during long - term use of the drug but has also been observed following repeated short - term courses .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate was observed in premature infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every six hours .
This effect resolved when the drug was discontinued .
One long - term follow - up study in children exposed to tetracycline in - utero showed no adverse effects on bone growth and development .
Tetracycline administered during pregnancy at high doses ( greater than 2 g IV ) was associated with rare but serious cases of maternal hepatotoxicity .
This syndrome may result in stillborn or premature birth due to maternal pathology ( see WARNINGS ) .
Results of animal studies indicate that tetracycline crosses the placenta , is found in fetal tissues , and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus ( often related to reversible retardation of skeletal development ) .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has also been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy .
Multiple studies of limited design were conducted with pregnant and lactating female rats that resulted in fetuses and neonates with yellow discoloration of bones and teeth .
Metronidazole There are published data from case - control studies , cohort studies , and 2 meta - analyses that include more than 5000 pregnant women who used metronidazole during pregnancy .
Many studies included first trimester exposures .
One study showed an increased risk of cleft lip , with or without cleft palate , in infants exposed to metronidazole in - utero ; however , these findings were not confirmed .
In addition , more than ten randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials enrolled more than 5000 pregnant women to assess the use of antibiotic treatment ( including metronidazole ) for bacterial vaginosis on the incidence of preterm delivery .
Most studies did not show an increased risk for congenital anomalies or other adverse fetal outcomes following metronidazole exposure during pregnancy .
Three studies conducted to assess the risk of infant cancer following metronidazole exposure during pregnancy did not show an increased risk ; however , the ability of these studies to detect such a signal was limited .
Metronidazole crosses the placental barrier and its effects on the human fetal organogenesis are not known .
No fetotoxicity was observed when metronidazole was administered orally to pregnant mice at 10 mg / kg / day , approximately 5 percent of the indicated human dose ( 1500 mg / day ) based on body surface area ; however in a single small study where the drug was administered intraperitoneally , some intrauterine deaths were observed .
The relationship of these findings to the drug is unknown .
Bismuth subsalicylate Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with bismuth subsalicylate .
It is also not known whether bismuth subsalicylate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Labor and Delivery : The effect of this therapy on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers : HELIDAC Therapy contains bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride .
Metronidazole is present in human milk at concentrations similar to maternal serum levels , and infant serum levels can be close to or comparable to infant therapeutic levels .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for metronidazole in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue metronidazole , taking into account the importance of the therapy to the mother .
Alternatively , a nursing mother may choose to pump and discard human milk for the duration of HELIDAC Therapy , and for 24 hours after therapy ends and feed her infant stored human milk or formula .
Tetracycline is present in human milk at concentrations similar to maternal serum levels ; however , it binds with calcium in human milk .
Data indicate that oral absorption of tetracycline in infants is low due to the calcium binding in human milk .
It is not known whether bismuth subsalicyate is excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of HELIDAC Therapy in pediatric patients infected with H . pylori have not been established .
Tetracycline use in children may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
HELIDAC Therapy should not be used in children up to 8 years of age ( see WARNINGS ) .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of HELIDAC Therapy did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , elderly patients may have a greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant diseases or other drug therapies .
Bismuth subsalicylate , a component of HELIDAC Therapy , is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , additional monitoring may be required ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Renal Impairment : The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired renal function , higher serum levels of tetracycline may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with severe hepatic disease metabolize metronidazole slowly , with resultant accumulation of metronidazole and its metabolites in plasma .
Use HELIDAC Therapy with caution in patients with hepatic impairment ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) reported in clinical trials when all three components of this therapy were given concomitantly are listed in Table 1 below .
The majority of the adverse reactions were related to the gastrointestinal tract , were reversible , and infrequently led to discontinuation of therapy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * darkening of the tongue ** black or dark stools *** metallic taste † Includes reactions reported at ≥ 1 % in patients taking bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline in Studies 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
‡ In Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ( N = 197 ) , most patients were on concomitant acid suppression therapy .
The additional adverse reactions ( < 1 % ) reported in clinical trials when all three components of this therapy were given concomitantly are listed below and divided by body system : Gastrointestinal : dry mouth , dysphagia , eructation , GI monilia , glossitis , intestinal obstruction , rectal hemorrhage , stomatitis Skin : acne , ecchymosis , photosensitivity reaction ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , pruritus , rash Cardiovascular : cerebral ischemia , chest pain , hypertension , myocardial infarction CNS : nervousness , somnolence Musculoskeletal : arthritis , rheumatoid arthritis , tendonitis Metabolic : SGOT increase , SGPT increase Urogenital : urinary tract infection Other : conjunctivitis , flu syndrome , infection , malaise , neoplasm , rhinitis , syncope , tooth disorder Other Important Adverse Reactions from Labeling for the Individual Components of HELIDAC Therapy Metronidazole Blood and Lymphatic system disorders : Reversible neutropenia ( leucopenia ) in cases of prolonged treatment ; rarely reversible thrombocytopenia however no persistent hematological abnormalities attributable to metronidazole have been observed ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Cardiac disorders : Flattening of the T - wave may be seen in electrocardiographic tracings .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal pain , constipation , anorexia , metallic taste , furry tongue , glossitis , stomatitis and candida overgrowth ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hypersensitivity / Immune system disorders : Urticaria , erythematous rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , flushing , nasal congestion , dryness of the mouth ( or vagina or vulva ) , and fever ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Pancreatitis .
Nervous system disorders : Convulsive seizures , encephalopathy , aseptic meningitis , optic and peripheral neuropathy , headache , syncope , dizziness , vertigo , incoordination , ataxia , confusion , dysarthria , irritability , depression , weakness , and insomnia ( see WARNINGS ) .
Dermatologic disorders : Erythematous rash and pruritus .
Renal and urinary disorders : Dysuria , cystitis , polyuria , incontinence , darkened urine , and a sense of pelvic pressure .
Other : Dyspareunia , decrease of libido , proctitis , joint pains .
Tetracycline Hydrochloride Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , neutropenia , and eosinophilia .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , anorexia , glossitis , black hairy tongue , dysphagia , enterocolitis , inflammatory lesions ( with Candida overgrowth ) in the anogenital region , esophagitis and esophageal ulceration .
Nervous system disorders : Intracranial hypertension including pseudotumor cerebri , tinnitus , and myasthenic syndrome .
Renal and urinary disorders : Increased BUN .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Maculopapular and erythematous rashes , DRESS syndrome ( drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ) , Steven - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , onycholysis , discoloration of the nails , exfoliative dermatitis and photosensitivity have been rarely reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Liver : Hepatotoxicity and liver failure .
Hypersensitivity reactions : Urticaria , angioedema , anaphylaxis , Henoch - Schonlein purpura , pericarditis , exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus , and serum sickness - like reactions .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Casper Pharma LLC .
at 1 - 844 - 5 - CASPER ( 1 - 844 - 522 - 7737 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE : In case of an overdose , patients should contact a physician , poison control center , or emergency room .
Bismuth Subsalicylate : The main concern of an acute bismuth subsalicylate ( BSS ) overdose focuses on the salicylate burden and not on bismuth , since less than 1 % of the bismuth is normally absorbed .
Each 262 . 4 - mg tablet of BSS contains an amount of salicylate comparable to approximately 130 mg aspirin .
Acute ingestion of less than 150 mg / kg of aspirin ( i . e . , less than one tablet of bismuth subsalicylate per kilogram of body weight ) is not expected to lead to toxicity .
Mild to moderate toxicity may result from the ingestion of 150 to 300 mg / kg , while severe toxicity may occur from ingestions over 300 mg / kg .
Salicylate intoxication presents a complex clinical picture .
Multiple respiratory and metabolic effects result in fluid , electrolyte , glucose , and acid - base disturbances .
Initial symptoms of salicylate toxicity include hyperpnea , nausea , vomiting , tinnitus , hyperpyrexia , lethargy , tachycardia , and confusion .
In severe cases , these symptoms may progress to severe hyperpnea , convulsions , pulmonary or cerebral edema , respiratory failure , cardiovascular collapse , coma , and death .
Treatment : There is no specific antidote for salicylate poisoning .
If there are no contraindications , vomiting should be induced as soon as possible with syrup of ipecac , or gastric lavage should be instituted , provided that no more than one hour has elapsed since ingestion .
Activated charcoal and a cathartic may be administered as primary decontamination therapy in those cases where greater than one hour has elapsed since ingestion , or to further decontaminate the gastrointestinal tract in those who have already received ipecac or gastric lavage .
Plasma salicylate levels may be useful ; a common nomogram can be used to help predict the severity of intoxication .
Supportive and symptomatic treatment should be provided , with emphasis on correcting fluid , electrolyte , blood glucose , and acid - base disturbances .
Elimination may be enhanced by urinary alkalinization , hemodialysis , or hemoperfusion .
Since hemodialysis aids in correcting acid - base disturbances , this method may be preferred over hemoperfusion .
Metronidazole : Symptoms of metronidazole toxicity include nausea , vomiting , and neurotoxic effects such as ataxia , seizures and peripheral neuropathy .
Treatment : There is no specific antidote for metronidazole overdose .
Management of the patient should consist of symptomatic and supportive therapy .
Metronidazole is dialyzable .
Tetracycline : Therapeutic and overdose quantities of tetracycline can cause gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Treatment : There is no specific antidote for tetracycline overdose .
Management of the patient should consist of symptomatic and supportive therapy .
Tetracycline is not dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults : The recommended dosages are : bismuth subsalicylate , 525 mg ( two 262 . 4 mg - chewable tablets ) , metronidazole , 250 mg ( one 250 - mg tablet ) , and tetracycline hydrochloride , 500 mg ( one 500 - mg capsule ) taken four times daily for 14 days plus an H2 antagonist approved for the treatment of acute duodenal ulcer .
Patients should be instructed to take the medicines at mealtimes and at bedtime .
The bismuth subsalicylate tablets should be chewed and swallowed .
The metronidazole tablet and tetracycline hydrochloride capsule should be swallowed whole with a full glass of water ( 8 ounces ) .
Concomitantly prescribed H2 antagonist therapy should be taken as directed .
Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluid , particularly with the bedtime dose of tetracycline hydrochloride , is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Missed doses can be made up by continuing the normal dosing schedule until the medication is gone .
Patients should not take double doses .
If more than 4 doses are missed , the prescriber should be contacted .
HOW SUPPLIED : The HELIDAC Therapy is supplied in a carton containing patient instructions , patient reminders , and 14 blister cards , each card containing the following daily dosage : 8 bismuth subsalicylate 262 . 4 - mg chewable tablets , each pink round tablet debossed “ W10 ” .
4 metronidazole 250 - mg tablets are round , white , debossed with “ WPI ” on one side and “ 3969 ” on the other .
4 tetracycline hydrochloride 500 - mg capsules , each black / yellow capsule imprinted with “ WPI ” on cap and “ 2235 ” on the body .
NDC 70199 - 021 - 14 carton containing 14 days of therapy Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
.
CLINICAL STUDIES : Eradication of H . pylori in Patients with Active Duodenal Ulcer Disease : Three clinical trials in the U . S . ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) evaluated the effect of therapy on the eradication of H . pylori using bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride .
The patient population in these studies consisted predominantly of duodenal ulcer patients with active disease .
In addition to bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , tetracycline hydrochloride triple therapy , most patients were also prescribed antisecretory therapy at doses recommended for ulcer healing , with the majority receiving ranitidine .
The efficacy in these studies was assessed using H . pylori eradication , or cure of infection .
Use of cure of infection as a surrogate for reduced ulcer recurrence is based on an extensive review of the literature .
Eradication rates are derived from results of Studies 1 ( randomized , controlled study ) and Study 3 ( uncontrolled , nonrandomized ) and are shown in Table 2 .
H . pylori eradication was defined as no positive test ( culture , histology , rapid urease , or 13 C breath test ) at least 4 weeks following the end of treatment .
In the analysis performed , dropouts and patients with missing H . pylori tests post - treatment were excluded .
HELIDAC Therapy ( bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride ) was effective in eradicating H . pylori .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] † Evaluable patients were defined as having a confirmed duodenal ulcer within 2 years prior to treatment and having taken 14 days of bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline ( range 11 to 17 days ) .
Eradication was defined as no evidence of H . pylori infection by culture , histology , rapid urease test and / or urea breath test from at least 4 weeks post - treatment up to 1 year posttreatment .
Study 2 evaluated the long - term outcome in patients treated for active duodenal ulcer by frequently monitoring for ulcer recurrence for up to 1 year after therapy .
This study compared patients who received bismuth subsalicylate ( BSS ) , metronidazole ( MTZ ) , and tetracycline hydrochloride ( TCN ) for 2 weeks with ranitidine to those who received ranitidine alone .
The ulcer recurrence rates at 6 months ( Table 3 ) and one year ( Table 4 ) regardless of post - treatment eradication status are summarized below for duodenal ulcer patients who were H . pylori positive at baseline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] † Includes all patients randomized to therapy who were H . pylori positive at baseline ( by culture , histology , and / or urea breath test ) who had ulcer healing and 24 or 48 weeks of endoscopic follow - up data .
Eradication of H . pylori in Patients with a History of Duodenal Ulcer Disease : A controlled , multicenter trial ( Study 4 ) in the U . S . compared the rates of eradication of H . pylori following 14 days of treatment with HELIDAC Therapy ( bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride ) or control ( bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole placebo , and tetracycline placebo ) in 103 patients infected with H . pylori who had a history of duodenal ulcer disease .
No H2 - receptor antagonist was used .
H . pylori eradication was assessed by rapid urease testing , histology , and culture at least 4 weeks after the last dose .
HELIDAC Therapy was effective in eradicating H . pylori .
The eradication rates are noted in the table below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] † Evaluable patients were defined as having a history of a confirmed duodenal ulcer prior to treatment and having taken ≥ 70 % of each component of HELIDAC Therapy ( bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , tetracycline hydrochloride ) during the 14 - day dosing period .
Eradication was defined as no evidence of H . pylori infection by two or three diagnostic tests ( culture , histology , and rapid urease test ) from at least 4 weeks to 6 weeks post - treatment .
Excluded from the evaluable population were patients who were noncompliant with medication , patients who were not infected with H . pylori at baseline , and patients without ulcer documentation .
Three patients in the HELIDAC Therapy group and one patient in the Control group were included as eradication failures because they withdrew from the study due to treatment - related adverse events .
‡ Patients were included in the analysis if they had documented H . pylori infection at baseline and had confirmed duodenal ulcer disease .
All dropouts were included as failures of therapy .
Eradication was defined as no evidence of H . pylori infection by culture , histology , or rapid urease test .
Compliance with the triple therapy regimen was also evaluated in the clinical study .
In the intent - to - treat population , 93 % of the HELIDAC Therapy group took at least 75 % of their medication .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HELIDAC is a registered trademark of Casper Pharma LLC .
PEPTO - BISMOL is the registered trademark of The Procter & Gamble Company .
Bismuth Subsalicylate Chewable Tablets , 262 . 4 mg are manufactured by : WES Pharma Inc Westminster , MD 21157 USA Metronidazole Tablets USP , 250 mg are manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules USP , 500 mg are manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA for Casper Pharma LLC .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Issued : 08 / 2019 PIB02114 - 01 PHARMACIST INFORMATION AND COUNSELING AID HELIDAC ® Therapy To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Bismuth Subsalicylate Chewable Tablets / Metronidazole Tablets / Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules and other antibacterial drugs , Bismuth Subsalicylate Chewable Tablets / Metronidazole Tablets / Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
Casper Pharma LLC .
PHARMACIST INFORMATION AND COUNSELING AID Not intended for distribution to Patient • This Counseling Aid contains concise information for the Pharmacist and is meant to aid in counseling ; please refer to the attached Package Insert for complete prescribing information .
• There is a detailed PATIENT INFORMATION BOOKLET contained in this package which should be read by the patient prior to initiating therapy .
• Instructions for opening the enclosed dosing blister cards can be found on the top of this package .
HELIDAC Therapy bismuth subsalicylate metronidazole tablet tetracycline hydrochloride capsule 1 .
What is the most important information my patient should know about HELIDAC Therapy ?
a . Scientists have discovered that most ulcers are caused by an infection from a specific germ called H . pylori .
Helicobacter pylori ( H . pylori ) infection has been found to play a primary role in the pathogenesis of duodenal ulcers , and is considered the causative organism in 80 % to 95 % of patients with duodenal ulcers .
b . Each pill of every dose is important .
Studies have shown that taking all this medicine is very important to eradicate all the ulcer - causing germs .
If doses are skipped or treatment is stopped early , some of these germs may not be eradicated and another ulcer can develop .
2 .
What is HELIDAC Therapy ?
a .
The components of HELIDAC Therapy ( bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride ) are indicated for the treatment of patients with an active duodenal ulcer associated with H . pylori infection .
The eradication of H . pylori has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Appropriate doses of an H2 antagonist indicated for the treatment of active duodenal ulcer should be prescribed for ulcer healing .
b . HELIDAC Therapy is a combination of three antimicrobial agents : bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole , and tetracycline hydrochloride .
Clinical trials using this combination have demonstrated H . pylori eradication in up to 82 % of patients with a duodenal ulcer .
Please note : bismuth subsalicylate is used in this combination for its antimicrobial properties and not for symptomatic relief of upset stomach .
c . Clinical data show that eradication of H . pylori is directly related to compliance .
This therapy has been designed to enhance compliance and contains 14 blister cards , one for each day of the 14 - day treatment plan , with each card divided into the 4 daily doses .
The therapy also contains a patient - oriented information booklet and patient reminders .
3 .
Who should not take HELIDAC Therapy ?
HELIDAC Therapy is contraindicated in the following patient populations : a . Pregnant women .
Advise pregnant women that HELIDAC Therapy can cause fetal harm due to the tetracycline it contains .
Tetracycline use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray brown ) and may inhibit bone development .
b . Nursing women .
Advise women to avoid feeding their infants with their milk during HELIDAC Therapy .
Women should either discontinue feeding or pump and discard their milk during treatment and for 24 hours after the last dose .
c . Pediatric patients .
d . Patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
e . Patients with known hypersensitivity to bismuth subsalicylate , metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives , or any of the tetracyclines ; this product does not contain aspirin , but should not be administered to those patients who have a known allergy to aspirin or salicylates .
f . Patients with evidence of , or a history of , blood dyscrasias .
g . Administer with caution in patients with central nervous system diseases .
h . Administer with caution in elderly patients who may suffer from asymptomatic renal and hepatic dysfunction .
4 .
How should my patient take HELIDAC Therapy ?
The medicines in this therapy have been demonstrated to treat the infection in the majority of cases when taken correctly .
Treating the infection is important to reduce the risk of the ulcer coming back .
( It may be useful to open the therapy and explain dosing while showing the patient one of the dosing blister cards . )
Patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by HELIDAC Therapy or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
a . Dosing : i . Each dose includes 4 pills : 2 pink round chewable tablets ( bismuth subsalicylate ) , 1 white round tablet ( metronidazole ) , and 1 black and yellow capsule ( tetracycline hydrochloride ) .
ii .
Take 1 dose ( all 4 pills ) 4 times a day – at mealtimes and bedtime .
iii .
Chew and swallow the 2 pink tablets .
iv .
Then swallow the white tablet and black and yellow capsule whole with a full glass of water ( 8 ounces ) .
v . Remember : Chew - Chew - Swallow - Swallow = 1 dose .
vi .
All 4 daily doses are contained on an individual blister card .
vii .
This therapy contains 14 blister cards , one card for each day of the 14 - day treatment plan .
viii .
If you miss a dose , do not take a double dose .
Instead , make up any missed doses by continuing your normal dosing schedule until the medication is gone .
( Please contact prescriber if more than 4 doses are missed . )
ix .
Each dose should be taken with a full glass of water ( 8 ounces ) , especially the bedtime dose ( to reduce risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration due to tetracycline ) .
x . Concomitantly prescribed H2 antagonist therapy should be taken as directed .
b .
In case of an overdose , patients should contact a physician , poison control center , or emergency room .
5 .
What should my patients avoid while taking HELIDAC Therapy ?
Patients should avoid : a . Methoxyflurane ( an anaesthesia ) .
Concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
b . Disulfiram ( treatment for alcoholism ) within the last 2 weeks .
Psychotic episodes have been reported in patients using metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently .
c . Alcohol .
There is a potential for a disulfiram - like interaction with metronidazole .
Patients should be warned not to drink alcohol or products containing propylene glycol during therapy and for at least 3 days after completion of all doses due to potential metronidazole effects .
d . Antacids containing aluminum , calcium , or magnesium ; preparations containing iron , zinc , or sodium bicarbonate ; and milk or dairy products .
Absorption of tetracycline may be impaired when co - administered .
e .
The sun ( or sunlamps ) because of possible photosensitivity due to tetracycline .
f .
Other medications without first consulting with your pharmacist or prescriber .
6 .
The administration of any of the following drugs with HELIDAC Therapy may result in adverse reactions or insufficient drug efficacies : a . Oral contraceptives .
As with many antibacterial preparations , concomitant use of HELIDAC Therapy may reduce the effectiveness of estrogen - containing oral contraceptives ; breakthrough bleeding may occur .
Patients should be advised to use an additional or different form of contraception .
Women who become pregnant while taking HELIDAC Therapy should be advised to notify their prescriber immediately .
b . Anticoagulants .
Individual components of HELIDAC Therapy have the potential to interact with anticoagulants .
Monitoring anticoagulant therapy with appropriate adjustment of the anticoagulant dosage may be warranted if concurrent therapy is instituted .
( See Package Insert . )
c . Lithium .
In patients stabilized on relatively high doses of lithium , short - term metronidazole therapy has been associated with elevation of serum lithium and , in a few cases , signs of lithium toxicity .
Serum lithium and serum creatinine should be obtained several days after beginning metronidazole to detect any increase that may precede clinical symptoms of lithium toxicity .
d . Antidiabetic agents .
There is a possible enhanced hypoglycemic effect when given with salicylates .
e . Cimetidine .
The simultaneous administration of drugs that decrease microsomal liver enzyme activity , such as cimetidine , may prolong the half - life and decrease plasma clearance of metronidazole .
f . Others .
See the Package Insert regarding the following possible , suspected , or confirmed interactions : aspirin , probenecid , sulfinpyrazone , methoxyflurane , disulfiram ( within 2 weeks ) , lithium , microsomal liver enzyme inducers , such as phenytoin or phenobarbital , and microsomal liver enzyme inhibitors .
g . Although there is an anticipated reduction in tetracycline systemic absorption due to an interaction with bismuth and / or bismuth subsalicylate tablet excipients ( calcium carbonate ) , the relative contribution of systemic versus local antimicrobial activity against H . pylori for these agents has not been established .
7 .
What are possible or reasonably likely side effects of HELIDAC Therapy ?
Adverse reactions associated with the individual components of HELIDAC Therapy have been well described and are included in the Package Insert .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 . 5 % ) are nausea ( 12 . 0 % ) , diarrhea ( 6 . 8 % ) , abdominal pain ( 6 . 8 % ) , melena ( 3 . 0 % ) , upper respiratory infection ( 2 . 3 % ) , constipation ( 1 . 9 % ) , anorexia ( 1 . 5 % ) , asthenia ( 1 . 5 % ) , vomiting ( 1 . 5 % ) , discolored tongue ( 1 . 5 % ) , headache ( 1 . 5 % ) , dyspepsia ( 1 . 5 % ) , and dizziness ( 1 . 5 % ) .
The majority of the events were related to the gastrointestinal tract , were reversible , and usually did not lead to discontinuation of therapy .
Some other possible adverse reactions include : a . Bismuth subsalicylate may cause a temporary and harmless darkening of the tongue and / or black stool .
This should not be confused with melena ( blood in the stool ) .
b . Metallic taste in the mouth c . Temporary darkening of the urine ( rare ) d . Sore mouth e . Yeast infections in women f . Tooth enamel discoloration and hypoplasia ( spots on teeth ) .
Use of tetracycline during tooth development ( second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood to 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth .
g . Superinfections .
Use of antibiotics may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
h . Central Nervous Effects .
All of the components of HELIDAC Therapy have been associated with central nervous effects such as seizures , peripheral neuropathy , neurotoxicity and intracranial hypertension .
As with most medications , rare but serious side effects have been reported with the use of the components contained in HELIDAC Therapy .
( See Package Insert . )
Patients should be instructed to report any unusual symptoms to their pharmacist or prescriber .
Patients may also report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or Casper Pharma LLC .
at 1 - 844 - 5 - CASPER ( 1 - 844 - 522 - 7737 ) .
8 .
General Information about the safe and effective use of HELIDAC Therapy Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed .
If your patients have any questions or concerns about HELIDAC Therapy , ask them to consult their doctor .
Tell your patients not to use HELIDAC Therapy for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Tell them not to share their medicine with other people .
Bismuth Subsalicylate Chewable Tablets , 262 . 4 mg are manufactured by : WES Pharma Inc Westminster , MD 21157 USA Metronidazole Tablets USP , 250 mg are manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Tetracycline Hydrochloride Capsules USP , 500 mg are manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA for Casper Pharma LLC .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Issued : 08 / 2019 MGB02114 - 00 Blister Card Pack Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
