1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SOAANZ is indicated in adults for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure or renal disease .
SOAANZ is a loop diuretic indicated in adults for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure or renal disease .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose is 20 mg oral SOAANZ once daily .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , titrate upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Doses higher than 200 mg have not been adequately studied .
The recommended initial dose is 20 mg orally once daily .
Titrate dose by approximately doubling until desired diuretic response is obtained .
Doses above 200 mg have not been studied .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 20 mg , 40 mg and 60 mg ( 3 ) Tablets : • 20 mg , yellow , round , film - coated tablet debossed with " T20 " on one side • 40 mg , orange , round , film - coated tablet debossed with " T40 " on one side • 60 mg , pink , round , film - coated tablet debossed with " T60 " on one side 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SOAANZ is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to SOAANZ .
SOAANZ is contraindicated in patients who are anuric .
SOAANZ is contraindicated in patients with hepatic coma .
Hypersensitivity to SOAANZ , anuria , and hepatic coma .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypotension and worsening renal function : monitor volume status and renal function periodically ( 5 . 1 ) • Electrolyte and metabolic abnormalities : monitor serum electrolytes and blood glucose periodically .
( 5 . 2 ) • Ototoxicity ( 5 . 3 , 7 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function Excessive diuresis may cause potentially symptomatic dehydration , blood volume reduction and hypotension and worsening renal function , including acute renal failure particularly in salt - depleted patients or those taking renin - angiotensin aldosterone inhibitors .
Worsening of renal function can also occur with concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs .
Monitor volume status and renal function periodically .
5 . 2 Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities SOAANZ can cause potentially symptomatic hypokalemia , hyponatremia , hypomagnesemia , hypocalcemia , and hypochloremic alkalosis .
Treatment with SOAANZ can cause an increase in blood glucose levels and hyperglycemia .
Asymptomatic hyperuricemia can occur , and gout may rarely be precipitated .
Monitor serum electrolytes and blood glucose periodically .
5 . 3 Ototoxicity Tinnitus and hearing loss ( usually reversible ) have been observed with loop diuretics , including torsemide .
Higher than recommended doses , severe renal impairment , and hypoproteinemia , appear to increase the risk of ototoxicity .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following risks are discussed in more detail in other sections : • Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions occurred in 6 % of patients treated with SOAANZ ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sarfez Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 703 - 627 - 1934 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In pre - approval studies , SOAANZ has been evaluated for safety in 65 subjects .
Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions occurred in 4 out of the 65 of subjects ( 6 % ) treated with SOAANZ .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the post - approval use of torsemide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal System : Pancreatitis , abdominal pain Nervous System : Paresthesia , confusion , visual impairment , loss of appetite Hematologic : Leucopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia Hepatobiliary : Increase in liver transaminases , gamma - glutamyltransferase Metabolism : Thiamine ( vitamin B1 ) deficiency Skin / hypersensitivity : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , photosensitivity reaction , pruritus Urogenital : Acute urinary retention 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Reduced diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects ; risk of renal impairment .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP2C9 : Concomitant use with CYP2C9 inhibitors can decrease torsemide clearance .
Torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range , such as warfarin or phenytoin .
( 7 . 2 ) • Cholestyramine : Decreased exposure of SOAANZ .
( 7 . 3 ) • Organic anion drugs : may decrease diuretic activity of SOAANZ .
( 7 . 4 ) • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity .
( 7 . 5 ) • Renin - angiotensin inhibitors : Increased risk of hypotension and renal impairment .
( 7 . 7 ) • Radiocontrast agents : Increased risk of renal toxicity .
( 7 . 8 ) • Corticosteroids and ACTH : Increased risk of hypokalemia .
( 7 . 9 ) 7 . 1 Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs Because torsemide and salicylates compete for secretion by renal tubules , patients receiving high doses of salicylates may experience salicylate toxicity when SOAANZ is concomitantly administered .
Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) and torsemide has been associated with the development of acute renal failure .
The diuretic effects of torsemide can be reduced by NSAIDs .
Partial inhibition of the natriuretic effect of torsemide by concomitant administration of indomethacin has been demonstrated for torsemide under conditions of dietary sodium restriction ( 50 mEq / day ) but not in the presence of normal sodium intake ( 150 mEq / day ) .
7 . 2 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Inhibitors and Inducers Torsemide is a substrate of CYP2C9 .
Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors ( e . g . , amiodarone , fluconazole , miconazole , oxandrolone ) can decrease torsemide clearance and increase torsemide plasma concentrations .
Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) increase torsemide clearance and decrease plasma torsemide concentrations .
Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure when used in combination with CYP2C9 inhibitor or inducer .
Adjust SOAANZ dose , if necessary .
Because of its inhibition of CYP2C9 metabolism , torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates , such as celecoxib , or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range , such as warfarin or phenytoin .
Monitor patients and adjust dosages if necessary .
7 . 3 Cholestyramine Concomitant use of torsemide and cholestyramine has not been studied in humans but , in a study in animals , coadministration of cholestyramine decreased the absorption of orally administered torsemide .
If SOAANZ and cholestyramine should be coadministered , administer SOAANZ at least one hour before or 4 to 6 h after cholestyramine administration .
7 . 4 Organic Anion Drugs Coadministration of organic anion drugs ( e . g . , probenecid ) that undergo significant renal tubular secretion have the potential to reduce secretion of torsemide into the proximal tubule which thereby decreases the diuretic activity of SOAANZ .
Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure during coadministration .
7 . 5 Lithium Like other diuretics , torsemide reduces the renal clearance of lithium , inducing a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Monitor lithium levels periodically when SOAANZ is coadministered .
7 . 6 Ototoxic Drugs Loop diuretics increase the ototoxic potential of other ototoxic drugs , including aminoglycoside antibiotics and ethacrynic acid .
This effect has been reported with concomitant use of torsemide and gentamycin .
Avoid concomitant use of SOAANZ and aminoglycoside antibiotics , if possible .
7 . 7 Renin - angiotensin Inhibitors Coadministration of SOAANZ with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers can increase the risk of hypotension and renal impairment .
7 . 8 Radiocontrast Agents SOAANZ can increase the risk of renal toxicity related to administration of radiocontrast agents .
7 . 9 Corticosteroids and ACTH Concomitant use with SOAANZ may increase risk of hypokalemia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on use of SOAANZ in pregnant women and the risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
In pregnant rats and rabbits dosed , on a mg / m2 basis , with 2 . 4 and 1 . 6 times a human starting dose of 20 mg / day , respectively , there was no fetotoxicity or teratogenicity .
However , in pregnant rats and rabbits administered 50 and 6 . 8 times the human dose , respectively , decreases in body weight , decreased fetal resorption and delayed fetal ossification was observed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major malformations and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % , and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Animal Data There was no fetotoxicity or teratogenicity in rats treated with up to 5 mg / kg / day of torsemide ( on a mg / m2 basis , the animal dose is 2 . 4 times the human starting dose of 20 mg / day ) , or in rabbits , treated with 1 . 6 mg / kg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis , the animal dose is 1 . 6 times the human starting dose of 20 mg / day dose ) .
Fetal and maternal toxicity ( decrease in average body weight , increase in fetal resorption and delayed fetal ossification ) occurred in rabbits and rats given doses 4 ( rabbits ) and 5 ( rats ) times larger .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data regarding the presence of torsemide in human milk or the effects of torsemide on the breastfed child .
Diuretics can suppress lactation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of SOAANZ in pediatric patients have not been established .
Administration of a loop diuretic to premature infants has been associated with the precipitation of nephrocalcinosis / nephrolithiasis .
Nephrocalcinosis / nephrolithiasis has also been observed in children under 4 years of age with no history of prematurity who have been treated chronically with a loop diuretic .
A loop diuretic , when administered during the first weeks of life , has also been reported to increase the risk of persistent patent ductus arteriosus .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received torsemide in United States clinical studies , 24 % were 65 or older and about 4 % were 75 or older .
No specific age - related differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between younger patients and elderly patients .
8 . 6 Use in Renal Impairment In patients with non - anuric renal failure , high doses of torsemide ( 20 mg to 200 mg ) caused marked increases in water and sodium excretion .
In patients with non - anuric renal failure , severe enough to require hemodialysis , chronic treatment with up to 200 mg of daily torsemide has not been shown to change steady - state fluid retention .
When patients in a study of acute renal failure received total daily doses of 520 mg to 1200 mg of torsemide , 19 % experienced seizures .
Ninety - six patients were treated in this study ; 6 / 32 treated with torsemide experienced seizures , 6 / 32 treated with comparably high doses of furosemide experienced seizures , and 1 / 32 treated with placebo experienced a seizure .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdosage can be anticipated to include those of excessive pharmacologic effect : dehydration , hypovolemia , hypotension , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hemoconcentration .
Treatment of overdosage should consist of fluid and electrolyte replacement .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of torsemide and its metabolites are not widely available .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of torsemide and its metabolites .
Torsemide is not dialyzable , so hemodialysis will not accelerate elimination .
11 DESCRIPTION SOAANZ contains torsemide , a diuretic of the pyridine - sulfonylurea class .
Its chemical name is 1 - isopropyl - 3 - [ ( 4 - m - toluidino - 3 - pyridyl ) sulfonyl ] urea and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C16H20N4O3S , its pKa is 6 . 42 , and its molecular weight is 348 . 42 .
Torsemide is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
The tablets for oral administration also contain colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , iron oxide red , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , polyethylene glycol and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Micropuncture studies in animals have shown that torsemide acts from within the lumen of the thick ascending portion of the loop of Henle , where it inhibits the Na + / K + / 2 Cl -- carrier system .
Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed this site of action in humans , and effects in other segments of the nephron have not been demonstrated .
Diuretic activity thus correlates better with the rate of drug excretion in the urine than with the concentration in the blood .
Torsemide increases the urinary excretion of sodium , chloride , and water , but it does not significantly alter glomerular filtration rate , renal plasma flow , or acid - base balance .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics With oral dosing of SOAANZ , the onset of diuresis occurs within 1 hour and the peak effect occurs during the first four hours and diuresis lasts about 6 to 8 hours . The mean increase in potassium excretion over 23 hours following a single oral dose of SOAANZ 20 mg in healthy adults was 12 . 7 mEq .
Edema Torsemide has been studied in controlled trials in patients with New York Heart Association Class II to Class IV heart failure .
Patients who received 10 mg to 20 mg of daily torsemide in these studies achieved significantly greater reductions in weight and edema than did patients who received placebo .
When torsemide is first administered , daily urinary sodium excretion increases for at least a week .
With chronic administration , however , daily sodium loss comes into balance with dietary sodium intake .
If the administration of torsemide is suddenly stopped , blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels over several days , without overshoot .
Torsemide has been administered together with β - adrenergic blocking agents , ACE inhibitors , and calcium - channel blockers .
Adverse drug interactions have not been observed , and special dosage adjustment has not been necessary .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Torsemide reaches peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) within 2 . 5 hours after oral administration of SOAANZ .
Cmax and area under the serum concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of torsemide after oral administration are proportional to dose over the range of 2 . 5 mg to 200 mg .
Effect of Food Administration of SOAANZ with a high fat , high calorie meal in healthy adults delays the time to Cmax by about 45 minutes , increases Cmax by 100 % and increases area under the plasma concentration over time curve ( AUC ) by 48 % .
No clinically significant change in overall diuretic activity was observed .
Distribution The volume of distribution of torsemide is 12 to 15 liters in normal adults or in patients with mild to moderate renal failure or congestive heart failure .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the volume of distribution is approximately doubled .
Torsemide is extensively bound to plasma protein ( > 99 % ) .
Metabolism Torsemide is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome CYP2C9 and , to a minor extent , CYP2C8 and CYP2C18 .
Three main metabolites have been identified in humans .
Metabolite M1 is formed by methylhydroxylation of torsemide , metabolite M3 is formed by ring hydroxylation of torsemide , and metabolite M5 is formed by oxidation of M1 .
The major metabolite in humans is the carboxylic acid derivative M5 , which is biologically inactive .
Metabolites M1 and M3 possess some pharmacological activity ; however , their systemic exposures are much lower when compared to torsemide .
Elimination In normal subjects the elimination half - life of torsemide is approximately 3 . 5 hours .
Torsemide is cleared from the circulation by both hepatic metabolism ( approximately 80 % of total clearance ) and excretion into the urine ( approximately 20 % of total clearance in patients with normal renal function ) .
Because torsemide is extensively bound to plasma protein ( > 99 % ) , very little enters tubular urine via glomerular filtration .
Most renal clearance of torsemide occurs via active secretion of the drug by the proximal tubules into tubular urine .
After a single oral dose , the amounts recovered in urine were : torsemide 21 % , metabolite M1 12 % , metabolite M3 2 % , and metabolite M5 34 % .
Renal Impairment In patients with renal failure , renal clearance of torsemide is markedly decreased but total plasma clearance is not significantly altered .
A smaller fraction of the administered dose is delivered to the intraluminal site of action , and the natriuretic action of any given dose of diuretic is reduced .
Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the volume of distribution , plasma half - life , and renal clearance are all increased , but total clearance is unchanged .
Geriatric Patients The renal clearance of torsemide is lower in elderly subjects as compared to younger adults , which is related to the decline in renal function that commonly occurs with aging .
However , total plasma clearance and elimination half - life remain unchanged .
Heart Failure In patients with decompensated congestive heart failure , hepatic and renal clearance are both reduced , probably because of hepatic congestion and decreased renal plasma flow , respectively .
The total clearance of torsemide is approximately 50 % of that seen in healthy volunteers , and the plasma half - life and AUC are correspondingly increased .
Because of reduced renal clearance , a smaller fraction of any given dose is delivered to the intraluminal site of action , so at any given dose there is less natriuresis in patients with heart failure than in normal subjects .
Drug Interactions Digoxin : Coadministration of digoxin is reported to increase the AUC for torsemide by 50 % , but dose adjustment of SOAANZ is not necessary .
Torsemide does not affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin .
Spironolactone : In healthy subjects , coadministration of torsemide was associated with significant reduction in the renal clearance of spironolactone , with corresponding increases in the AUC .
However , the pharmacokinetic profile and diuretic activity of torsemide are not altered by spironolactone .
Torsemide does not affect the protein binding of glyburide or warfarin .
Cimetidine : The pharmacokinetic profile and diuretic activity of torsemide are not altered by cimetidine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No overall increase in tumor incidence was found when torsemide was given to rats and mice throughout their lives at doses up to 9 mg / kg / day ( rats ) and 32 mg / kg / day ( mice ) .
On a body - weight basis , these doses are 27 to 96 times a human dose of 20 mg ; on a body - surface - area basis , they are 5 to 8 times this dose .
In the rat study , the high - dose female group demonstrated renal tubular injury , interstitial inflammation , and a statistically significant increase in renal adenomas and carcinomas .
The tumor incidence in this group was , however , not much higher than the incidence sometimes seen in historical controls .
Similar signs of chronic non - neoplastic renal injury have been reported in high - dose animal studies of other diuretics such as furosemide and hydrochlorothiazide .
No mutagenic activity was detected in any of a variety of in vivo and in vitro tests of torsemide and its major human metabolite .
The tests included the Ames test in bacteria ( with and without metabolic activation ) , tests for chromosome aberrations and sister - chromatid exchanges in human lymphocytes , tests for various nuclear anomalies in cells found in hamster and murine bone marrow , tests for unscheduled DNA synthesis in mice and rats , and others .
In doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( 75 times a human dose of 20 mg on a body - weight basis ; 13 times this dose on a body - surface - area basis ) , torsemide had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male or female rats .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING SOAANZ tablets are available as round , film - coated , debossed on one side in the following configurations : Strength Color Debossing Bottle of 30 tablets Bottle of 90 Tablets 20 mg Yellow T20 NDC 73502 - 786 - 07 NDC 73502 - 786 - 08 40 mg Orange T40 NDC 73502 - 586 - 10 NDC 73502 - 586 - 11 60 mg Pink T60 NDC 73502 - 687 - 13 NDC 73502 - 687 - 14 Strength Color Debossing Tablets per Card Carton of 30 Tablets 20 mg Yellow T20 6 NDC 73502 - 286 - 09 40 mg Orange T40 6 NDC 73502 - 288 - 15 60 mg Pink T60 6 NDC 73502 - 287 - 12 Store between 20 ° C and 25 ° C ( 68 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Symptomatic Hypotension : Advise patients receiving SOAANZ that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
Patients should be told that if syncope occurs , SOAANZ should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAID ) : Advise patients to discuss with their physician before taking NSAID medications concomitantly [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
SARFEZ and SOAANZ are registered trademarks of Sarfez .
Any other trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured For : Sarfez Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Vienna , VA 22182 © 2021 Sarfez Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 786 - 07 NDC 73502 - 786 - 07 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 20 mg 30 Tablets Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 786 - 08 NDC 73502 - 786 - 08 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 20 mg 90 Tablets Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 687 - 13 NDC 73502 - 687 - 13 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 60 mg 30 Tablets Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 687 - 14 NDC 73502 - 687 - 14 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 60 mg 90 Tablets Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 586 - 10 NDC 73502 - 586 - 10 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 40 mg 30 Tablets Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 586 - 11 NDC 73502 - 586 - 11 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 40 mg 90 Tablets Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Blister Pack Label NDC 73502 - 286 - 09 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 20 mg Manufactured for : Sarfez Pharmaceuticals Inc .
KR / DRUGS / KTK / 25 / 460 / 2001 LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 73502 - 286 - 15 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 20 mg per tablet 30 Tablets ( 5 blister cards x 6 tablets each ) Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Blister Pack Label NDC 73502 - 287 - 12 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 40 mg Manufactured for : Sarfez Pharmaceuticals Inc .
KR / DRUGS / KTK / 25 / 460 / 2001 LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 73502 - 287 - 16 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 40 mg per tablet 30 Tablets ( 5 blister cards x 6 tablets each ) Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mg Tablet Blister Pack Label NDC 73502 - 288 - 15 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 60 mg Manufactured for : Sarfez Pharmaceuticals Inc .
KR / DRUGS / KTK / 25 / 460 / 2001 LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 73502 - 288 - 17 SOAANZ ® ( torsemide ) Tablets 60 mg per tablet 30 Tablets ( 5 blister cards x 6 tablets each ) Rx only SARFEZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
