Dosage and Administration Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply using a gloved hand .
Swirl the applicator tip prior to removing swab from the pouch and apply to area 3 - 5 minutes prior to procedure not more than 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a physician .
Usage Pain relief Warning : for external use only .
Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue LidoDose and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and consult a physician if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not use in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , inepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para ¬ aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Storage Store between 68 and 77 F ( 20 - 25 C ) , with allowed excursions between 59 and 86 F ( 15 - 30 C ) .
Protect from freezing .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Active Ingredients : Lidocaine Hydrochloride 3 % Purpose : Anesthetic Inactive Ingredients : Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Carbomer , Isopropyl Alcohol , Petrolatum , Polysorbate - 20 , Triethanolamine Please see product insert for additional information .
LIDO DOSE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
