DESCRIPTION Phytonadione is a vitamin which is a clear , yellow to amber , viscous , and nearly odorless liquid .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and slightly soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 450 . 70 .
Phytonadione is 2 - methyl - 3 - phytyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone .
Its empirical formula is C 31 H 46 O 2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phytonadione tablets , USP containing 5 mg of phytonadione , USP , is light yellow to yellow colored , round tablets .
Inactive Ingredients Phytonadione tablets USP , 5 mg contains : acacia , anhydrous dibasic calcium phosphate , colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phytonadione possess the same type and degree of activity as does naturally - occurring vitamin K , which is necessary for the production via the liver of active prothrombin ( factor II ) , proconvertin ( factor VII ) , plasma thromboplastin component ( factor IX ) , and Stuart factor ( factor X ) .
The prothrombin test is sensitive to the levels of three of these four factors – II , VII , and X . Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the post - translational carboxylation of multiple , specific , peptide - bound glutamic acid residues in inactive hepatic precursors of factors II , VII , IX , and X .
The resulting gamma - carboxyglutamic acid residues convert the precursors into active coagulation factors that are subsequently secreted by liver cells into the blood .
Oral phytonadione is adequately absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract only if bile salts are present .
After absorption , phytonadione is initially concentrated in the liver , but the concentration declines rapidly .
Very little vitamin K accumulates in tissues .
Little is known about the metabolic fate of vitamin K . Almost no free unmetabolized vitamin K appears in bile or urine .
In normal animals and humans , phytonadione is virtually devoid of pharmacodynamic activity .
However , in animals and humans deficient in vitamin K , the pharmacological action of vitamin K is related to its normal physiological function ; that is , to promote the hepatic biosynthesis of vitamin K - dependent clotting factors .
Phytonadione tablets generally exert their effect within 6 to 10 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione tablets are indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity .
Phytonadione tablets are indicated in : • anticoagulant - induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to antibacterial therapy ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to administration of salicylates ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to obstructive jaundice or biliary fistulas but only if bile salts are administered concurrently , since otherwise the oral vitamin K will not be absorbed .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS An immediate coagulant effect should not be expected after administration of phytonadione .
Phytonadione will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin .
When vitamin K 1 is used to correct excessive anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia , anticoagulant therapy still being indicated , the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy .
Phytonadione is not a clotting agent , but overzealous therapy with vitamin K 1 may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena .
Dosage should be kept as low as possible , and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Repeated large doses of vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory .
Failure to respond to vitamin K may indicate a congenital coagulation defect or that the condition being treated is unresponsive to vitamin K . PRECAUTIONS General Vitamin K 1 is fairly rapidly degraded by light ; therefore , always protect phytonadione from light .
Store phytonadione in closed original carton until contents have been used ( see also HOW SUPPLIED , Storage ) .
Drug Interactions Temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants may result , especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used .
If relatively large doses have been employed , it may be necessary when reinstituting anticoagulant therapy to use somewhat larger doses of the prothrombin - depressing anticoagulant , or to use one which acts on a different principle , such as heparin sodium .
Laboratory Tests Prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility have not been performed with phytonadione .
Phytonadione at concentrations up to 2 , 000 mcg / plate with or without metabolic activation , was negative in the Ames microbial mutagen test .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phytonadione .
It is also not known whether phytonadione can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Phytonadione should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established with phytonadione .
Hemolysis , jaundice , and hyperbilirubinemia in newborns , particularly in premature infants , have been reported with vitamin K . Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when phytonadione is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of phytonadione did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactoid reactions and deaths have been reported following parenteral administration .
The majority of these reported events occurred following intravenous administration .
Transient “ flushing sensations ” and “ peculiar ” sensations of taste have been observed with parenteral phytonadione , as well as rare instances of dizziness , rapid and weak pulse , profuse sweating , brief hypotension , dyspnea , and cyanosis .
Hyperbilirubinemia has been observed in the newborn following administration of parenteral phytonadione .
This has occurred rarely and primarily with doses above those recommended .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The intravenous and oral LD 50 s in the mouse are approximately 1 . 17 g / kg and greater than 24 . 18 g / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Phytonadione Tablets Summary of Dosage Guidelines ( See circular text for details ) Adults Initial Dosage Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency ( caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ) 2 . 5 mg to 10 mg or up to 25 mg ( rarely 50 mg ) Hypoprothrombinemia due to other causes ( Antibiotics ; Salicylates or other drugs ; Factors limiting absorption or synthesis ) 2 . 5 mg to 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin times caused by oral anticoagulant therapy – 2 . 5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended .
In rare instances 50 mg may be required .
Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition ( see WARNINGS ) .
If , in 12 to 48 hours after oral administration , the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily , the dose should be repeated .
Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults If possible , discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms ( such as salicylates , antibiotics ) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent phytonadione tablets .
The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of phytonadione tablets is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs .
A dosage of 2 . 5 to 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) is recommended , the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained .
The oral route should be avoided when the clinical disorder would prevent proper absorption .
Bile salts must be given with the tablets when the endogenous supply of bile to the gastrointestinal tract is deficient .
HOW SUPPLIED Phytonadione tablets USP , 5 mg are supplied as light yellow to yellow colored , round , scored tablets , debossed with “ AA ” and “ 05 ” on either side of scoring and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Unit dose packages of 20 ( 2 x 10 ) NDC 60687 - 381 - 94 Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
Always protect phytonadione tablets , USP from light .
( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
PACKAGING INFORMATION American Health Packaging unit dose blisters ( see How Supplied section ) contain drug product from Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC as follows : ( 5 mg / 20 UD ) NDC 60687 - 381 - 94 packaged from NDC 69238 - 1051 Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 8438194 / 0518 F Package / Label Display Panel – Carton – 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 60687 - 381 - 94 Phytonadione Tablets , USP 5 mg 20 Tablets ( 2 x 10 ) Rx Only Each Tablet Contains : Phytonadione , USP ...................................................
5 mg Usual Adult Dosage : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
The drug product contained in this package is from NDC # 69238 - 1051 , Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC .
Packaged and Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , Ohio 43217 738194 0438194 / 0619 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel – Blister – 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phytonadione Tablet , USP 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
