DESCRIPTION Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP contain either 5 mg or 25 mg leucovorin as the calcium salt of N - [ 4 - [ [ ( 2 - amino - 5 - formyl - 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - hexahydro - 4 - oxo - 6 - pteridinyl ) methyl ] amino ] benzoyl ] - L - glutamic acid .
This is equivalent to 5 . 4 mg or 27 . 01 mg of anhydrous leucovorin calcium , respectively .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The 25 mg tablet also contains D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake .
Leucovorin is a water soluble form of reduced folate in the folate group ; it is useful as an antidote to drugs which act as folic acid antagonists .
These tablets are intended for oral administration only .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 20 H 21 CaN 7 O 7 M . W . 511 . 5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leucovorin is a racemic mixture of the diastereoisomers of the 5 - formyl derivative of tetrahydrofolic acid .
The biologically active compound of the mixture is the ( - ) - L - isomer , known as Citrovorum factor , or ( - ) - folinic acid .
Leucovorin does not require reduction by the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in order to participate in reactions utilizing folates as a source of “ one - carbon ” moieties .
Following oral administration , leucovorin is rapidly absorbed and enters the general body pool of reduced folates .
The increase in plasma and serum folate activity ( determined microbiologically with Lactobacillus casei ) seen after oral administration of leucovorin is predominantly due to 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
Twenty normal men were given a single , oral 15 mg dose ( 7 . 5 mg / m 2 ) of leucovorin calcium and serum folate concentrations were assayed with L . casei .
Mean values observed ( ± one standard error ) were : • Time to peak serum folate concentration : 1 . 72 ± 0 . 08 hours , • Peak serum folate concentration achieved : 268 ± 18 ng / mL , • Serum folate half - disappearance time : 3 . 5 hours .
Oral tablets yielded areas under the serum folate concentration - time curves ( AUCs ) that were 12 % greater than equal amounts of leucovorin given intramuscularly and equal to the same amounts given intravenously .
Oral absorption of leucovorin is saturable at doses above 25 mg .
The apparent bioavailability of leucovorin was 97 % for 25 mg , 75 % for 50 mg and 37 % for 100 mg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Leucovorin calcium tablets are indicated to diminish the toxicity and counteract the effects of impaired methotrexate elimination and of inadvertent overdosages of folic acid antagonists .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Leucovorin is improper therapy for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias secondary to the lack of vitamin B 12 .
A hematologic remission may occur while neurologic manifestations continue to progress .
WARNINGS In the treatment of accidental overdosage of folic acid antagonists , leucovorin should be administered as promptly as possible .
As the time interval between antifolate administration ( e . g . , methotrexate ) and leucovorin rescue increases , leucovorin ’ s effectiveness in counteracting hematologic toxicity decreases .
Monitoring of the serum methotrexate concentration is essential in determining the optimal dose and duration of treatment with leucovorin .
Delayed methotrexate excretion may be caused by a third space fluid accumulation ( i . e . , ascites , pleural effusion ) , renal insufficiency , or inadequate hydration .
Under such circumstances , higher doses of leucovorin or prolonged administration may be indicated .
Doses higher than those recommended for oral use must be given intravenously .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil .
Deaths from severe enterocolitis , diarrhea , and dehydration have been reported in elderly patients receiving weekly leucovorin and fluorouracil .
1 Concomitant granulocytopenia and fever were present in some but not all of the patients .
The concomitant use of leucovorin with trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection was associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo - controlled study .
PRECAUTIONS General Parenteral administration is preferable to oral dosing if there is a possibility that the patient may vomit or not absorb the leucovorin .
Leucovorin has no effect on other established toxicities of methotrexate such as the nephrotoxicity resulting from drug and / or metabolite precipitation in the kidney .
Drug Interactions Folic acid in large amounts may counteract the antiepileptic effect of phenobarbital , phenytoin and primidone , and increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible children .
Preliminary animal and human studies have shown that small quantities of systemically administered leucovorin enter CSF primarily as 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate and , in humans , remain 1 to 3 orders of magnitude lower than usual methotrexate concentrations following intrathecal administration .
However , high doses of leucovorin may reduce the efficacy of intrathecally administered methotrexate .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with leucovorin .
It is also not known whether leucovorin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Leucovorin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when leucovorin is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use See Drug Interactions subsection .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization , including anaphylactoid reactions and urticaria , has been reported following the administration of both oral and parenteral leucovorin .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive amounts of leucovorin may nullify the chemotherapeutic effect of folic acid antagonists .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Leucovorin calcium tablets are intended for oral administration .
Because absorption is saturable , oral administration of doses greater than 25 mg is not recommended .
Impaired Methotrexate Elimination or Inadvertent Overdosage Leucovorin rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is delayed excretion ( see WARNINGS ) .
Leucovorin 15 mg ( 10 mg / m 2 ) should be administered IM , IV , or PO every 6 hours until serum methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M .
In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity , nausea , or vomiting , leucovorin should be administered parenterally .
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 hour intervals .
If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50 % over baseline or if the 24 hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10 - 6 M or the 48 hour level is greater than 9 x 10 - 7 M , the dose of leucovorin should be increased to 150 mg ( 100 mg / m 2 ) IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M . Doses greater than 25 mg should be given parenterally ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Hydration ( 3 L / d ) and urinary alkalinization with sodium bicarbonate should be employed concomitantly .
The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to maintain the urine pH at 7 or greater .
The recommended dose of leucovorin to counteract hematologic toxicity from folic acid antagonists with less affinity for mammalian dihydrofolate reductase than methotrexate ( i . e . , trimethoprim , pyrimethamine ) is substantially less , and 5 to 15 mg of leucovorin per day has been recommended by some investigators .
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to develop reversible non - oliguric renal failure .
In addition to appropriate leucovorin therapy , these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalinization , and close monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status , until the serum methotrexate level has fallen to below 0 . 05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved .
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal function following methotrexate administration , which are significant but less severe .
These abnormalities may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity .
If significant clinical toxicity is observed , leucovorin rescue should be extended for an additional 24 hours ( total 14 doses over 84 hours ) in subsequent courses of therapy .
The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact with methotrexate ( e . g . , medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination or binding to serum albumin ) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities or clinical toxicities are observed .
HOW SUPPLIED Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 25 mg are available as pale green , round , unscored , biconvex tablets , debossed with b on one side and 485 on the other side , packaged in Unit dose packages of 20 ( 2 x 10 ) NDC 60687 - 227 - 94 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
Protect from light and moisture .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
REFERENCES • Grem JL , Shoemaker DD , Petrelli NJ , Douglas HO .
Severe and fatal toxic effects observed in treatment with high - and low - dose leucovorin plus 5 - fluorouracil for colorectal carcinoma .
Cancer Treat Rep 1987 ; 71 : 1122 .
• Link MP , Goorin AM , Miser AW et al .
The effect of adjuvant chemotherapy on relapse - free survival in patients with osteosarcoma of the extremity .
N Engl J Med 1986 ; 314 : 1600 - 1606 .
PACKAGING INFORMATION American Health Packaging unit dose blisters ( see How Supplied section ) contain drug product from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA as follows : ( 25 mg / 20 UD ) NDC 60687 - 227 - 94 packaged from NDC 0555 - 0485 Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 8422794 / 0821 F Package / Label Display Panel – Carton – 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 60687 - 227 - 94 Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP 25 mg * 20 Tablets ( 2 x 10 ) Rx Only * Each Tablet Contains : Leucovorin calcium , USP equivalent to 25 mg leucovorin .
Usual Dosage : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
The drug product contained in this package is from NDC # 0555 - 0485 , Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , Ohio 43217 722794 0422794 / 0619 OS [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel – Blister – 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Leucovorin Calcium Tablet USP 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
