DESCRIPTION Acetazolamide Extended - release Capsules are an inhibitor of the enzyme carbonic anhydrase .
Acetazolamide , USP is a white to faintly yellowish white , crystalline odorless powder , sparingly soluble in practically boiling water , slightly soluble in alcohol , very slightly soluble in water .
The chemical name for acetazolamide is N - ( 5 - Sulfamoyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) acetamide and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MW 222 . 25 C 4 H 6 N 4 O 3 S 2 Each acetazolamide extended - release capsule intended for oral administration contains 500 mg of acetazolamide .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : gelatin , iron oxide yellow , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc and titanium dioxide .
Each capsule is printed with black pharmaceutical ink which contains black iron oxide , butyl alcohol , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acetazolamide is a potent carbonic anhydrase inhibitor , effective in the control of fluid secretion ( e . g . , some types of glaucoma ) , in the treatment of certain convulsive disorders ( e . g . , epilepsy ) , and in the promotion of diuresis in instances of abnormal fluid retention ( e . g . , cardiac edema ) .
Acetazolamide is not a mercurial diuretic .
Rather , it is a non - bacteriostatic sulfonamide possessing a chemical structure and pharmacological activity distinctly different from the bacteriostatic sulfonamides .
Acetazolamide is an enzyme inhibitor that acts specifically on carbonic anhydrase , the enzyme that catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the dehydration of carbonic acid .
In the eye , this inhibitory action of acetazolamide decreases the secretion of aqueous humor and results in a drop in intraocular pressure , a reaction considered desirable in cases of glaucoma and even in certain non - glaucomatous conditions .
Evidence seems to indicate that acetazolamide has utility as an adjuvant in treatment of certain dysfunctions of the central nervous system ( e . g . , epilepsy ) .
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in this area appears to retard abnormal , paroxysmal , excessive discharge from central nervous system neurons .
The diuretic effect of acetazolamide is due to its action in the kidney on the reversible reaction involving hydration of carbon dioxide and dehydration of carbonic acid .
The result is renal loss of HCO 3 ion , which carries out sodium , water , and potassium .
Alkalinization of the urine and promotion of diuresis are thus affected .
Alteration in ammonia metabolism occurs due to increased reabsorption of ammonia by the renal tubules as a result of urinary alkalinization .
Acetazolamide extended - release capsules provide prolonged action to inhibit aqueous humor secretion for 18 to 24 hours after each dose , whereas tablets act for only eight to 12 hours .
The prolonged continuous effect of acetazolamide permits a reduction in dosage frequency .
Plasma concentrations of acetazolamide peak from three to six hours after administration of acetazolamide extended - release capsules , compared to one to four hours with tablets .
Food does not affect bioavailability of acetazolamide extended - release capsules .
Placebo - controlled clinical trials have shown that prophylactic administration of acetazolamide at a dose of 250 mg every eight to 12 hours ( or a 500 mg controlled - release capsule once daily ) before and during rapid ascent to altitude results in fewer and / or less severe symptoms of acute mountain sickness ( AMS ) such as headache , nausea , shortness of breath , dizziness , drowsiness , and fatigue .
Pulmonary function ( e . g . , minute ventilation , expired vital capacity , and peak flow ) is greater in the acetazolamide treated group , both in subjects with AMS and asymptomatic subjects .
The acetazolamide treated climbers also had less difficulty in sleeping .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For adjunctive treatment of : chronic simple ( open - angle ) glaucoma , secondary glaucoma , and preoperatively in acute angle - closure glaucoma where delay of surgery is desired in order to lower intraocular pressure .
Acetazolamide extended - release capsules are also indicated for the prevention or amelioration of symptoms associated with acute mountain sickness despite gradual ascent .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to acetazolamide or any excipients in the formulation .
Since acetazolamide is a sulfonamide derivative , cross sensitivity between acetazolamide , sulfonamides and other sulfonamide derivatives is possible .
Acetazolamide therapy is contraindicated in situations in which sodium and / or potassium blood serum levels are depressed , in cases of marked kidney and liver disease or dysfunction , in suprarenal gland failure , and in hyperchloremic acidosis .
It is contraindicated in patients with cirrhosis because of the risk of development of hepatic encephalopathy .
Long - term administration of acetazolamide is contraindicated in patients with chronic non - congestive angle - closure glaucoma since it may permit organic closure of the angle to occur while the worsening glaucoma is masked by lowered intraocular pressure .
WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , anaphylaxis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Sensitizations may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration .
If signs of hypersensitivity or other serious reactions occur , discontinue use of this drug .
Caution is advised for patients receiving concomitant high - dose aspirin and acetazolamide , as anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , metabolic acidosis , coma , and death have been reported .
PRECAUTIONS General Increasing the dose does not increase the diuresis and may increase the incidence of drowsiness and / or paresthesia .
Increasing the dose often results in a decrease in diuresis .
Under certain circumstances , however , very large doses have been given in conjunction with other diuretics in order to secure diuresis in complete refractory failure .
Information for Patients Adverse reactions common to all sulfonamide derivatives may occur : anaphylaxis , fever , rash ( including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis ) , crystalluria , renal calculus , bone marrow depression , thrombocytopenic purpura , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , and agranulocytosis .
Caution is advised for early detection of such reactions and the drug should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In patients with pulmonary obstruction or emphysema where alveolar ventilation may be impaired , acetazolamide which may precipitate or aggravate acidosis should be used with caution .
Gradual ascent is desirable to try to avoid acute mountain sickness .
If rapid ascent is undertaken and acetazolamide is used , it should be noted that such use does not obviate the need for prompt descent if severe forms of high altitude sickness occur , i . e . , high altitude pulmonary edema ( HAPE ) or high altitude cerebral edema .
Caution is advised for patients receiving concomitant high - dose aspirin and acetazolamide , as anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , metabolic acidosis , coma , and death have been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Both increases and decreases in blood glucose have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide .
This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus .
Acetazolamide treatment may cause electrolyte imbalances , including hyponatremia and hypokalemia , as well as metabolic acidosis .
Therefore , periodic monitoring of serum electrolytes is recommended .
Particular caution is recommended in patients with conditions that are associated with , or predispose a patient to , electrolyte and acid / base imbalances , such as patients with impaired renal function ( including elderly patients ; see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) , patients with diabetes mellitus , and patients with impaired alveolar ventilation .
Some adverse reactions to acetazolamide , such as drowsiness , fatigue , and myopia , may impair the ability to drive and operate machinery .
Laboratory Tests To monitor for hematologic reactions common to all sulfonamides , it is recommended that a baseline CBC and platelet count be obtained on patients prior to initiating acetazolamide therapy and at regular intervals during therapy .
If significant changes occur , early discontinuance and institution of appropriate therapy are important .
Periodic monitoring of serum electrolytes is recommended .
Drug Interactions Aspirin - See WARNINGS Acetazolamide modifies phenytoin metabolism with increased serum levels of phenytoin .
This may increase or enhance the occurrence of osteomalacia in some patients receiving chronic phenytoin therapy .
Caution is advised in patients receiving chronic concomitant therapy .
By decreasing the gastrointestinal absorption of primidone , acetazolamide may decrease serum concentrations of primidone and its metabolites , with a consequent possible decrease in anticonvulsant effect .
Caution is advised when beginning , discontinuing , or changing the dose of acetazolamide in patients receiving primidone .
Because of possible additive effects with other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , concomitant use is not advisable .
Acetazolamide may increase the effects of other folic acid antagonists .
Acetazolamide decreases urinary excretion of amphetamine and may enhance the magnitude and duration of their effect .
Acetazolamide reduces urinary excretion of quinidine and may enhance its effect .
Acetazolamide may prevent the urinary antiseptic effect of methenamine .
Acetazolamide increases lithium excretion and the lithium may be decreased .
Acetazolamide and sodium bicarbonate used concurrently increase the risk of renal calculus formation .
Acetazolamide may elevate cyclosporine levels .
Drug / laboratory test interactions Sulfonamides may give false negative or decreased values for urinary phenolsulfonphthalein and phenol red elimination values for urinary protein , serum non - protein , and serum uric acid .
Acetazolamide may produce an increased level of crystals in the urine .
Acetazolamide interferes with the HPLC method of assay for theophylline .
Interference with the theophylline assay by acetazolamide depends on the solvent used in the extraction ; acetazolamide may not interfere with other assay methods for theophylline .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of acetazolamide have not been conducted .
In a bacterial mutagenicity assay , acetazolamide was not mutagenic when evaluated with and without metabolic activation .
The drug had no effect on fertility when administered in the diet to male and female rats at a daily intake of up to 4 times the recommended human dose of 1000 mg in a 50 kg individual .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Acetazolamide , administered orally or parenterally , has been shown to be teratogenic ( defects of the limbs ) in mice , rats , hamsters , and rabbits .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Acetazolamide should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from acetazolamide , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Acetazolamide should only be used by nursing women if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the child .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of acetazolamide extended - release capsules in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Growth retardation has been reported in children receiving long - term therapy , believed secondary to chronic acidosis .
Geriatric Use Metabolic acidosis , which can be severe , may occur in the elderly with reduced renal function .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole : Headache , malaise , fatigue , fever , pain at injection site , flushing , growth retardation in children , flaccid paralysis , anaphylaxis .
Digestive : Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea .
Hematological / Lymphatic : Blood dyscrasias such as aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , melena .
Hepato - biliary disorders : Abnormal liver function , cholestatic jaundice , hepatic insufficiency , fulminant hepatic necrosis .
Metabolic / Nutritional : Metabolic acidosis , electrolyte imbalance , including hypokalemia , hyponatremia , osteomalacia with long - term phenytoin therapy , loss of appetite , taste alteration , hyper / hypoglycemia .
Nervous : Drowsiness , paresthesia ( including numbness and tingling of extremities and face ) , depression , excitement , ataxia , confusion , convulsions , dizziness .
Skin : Allergic skin reactions including urticaria , photosensitivity , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Special senses : Hearing disturbances , tinnitus , transient myopia .
Urogenital : Crystalluria , increased risk of nephrolithiasis with long - term therapy , hematuria , glycosuria , renal failure , polyuria .
OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote is known .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and central nervous system effects might be expected to occur .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
Supportive measures are required to restore electrolyte and pH balance .
The acidotic state can usually be corrected by the administration of bicarbonate .
Despite its high intraerythrocytic distribution and plasma protein binding properties , acetazolamide may be dialyzable .
This may be particularly important in the management of acetazolamide overdosage when complicated by the presence of renal failure .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glaucoma : The recommended dosage is 1 capsule ( 500 mg ) two times a day .
Usually 1 capsule is administered in the morning and 1 capsule in the evening .
It may be necessary to adjust the dose , but it has usually been found that dosage in excess of 2 capsules ( 1 g ) does not produce an increased effect .
The dosage should be adjusted with careful individual attention both to symptomatology and intraocular tension .
In all cases , continuous supervision by a physician is advisable .
In those unusual instances where adequate control is not obtained by the twice - a - day administration of acetazolamide extended - release capsules , the desired control may be established by means of acetazolamide ( tablets or parenteral ) .
Use tablets or parenteral in accordance with the more frequent dosage schedules recommended for these dosage forms , such as 250 mg every four hours , or an initial dose of 500 mg followed by 250 mg or 125 mg every four hours , depending on the case in question .
Acute Mountain Sickness : Dosage is 500 mg to 1000 mg daily , in divided doses using tablets or extended - release capsules as appropriate .
In circumstances of rapid ascent , such as in rescue or military operations , the higher dose level of 1000 mg is recommended .
It is preferable to initiate dosing 24 to 48 hours before ascent and to continue for 48 hours while at high altitude , or longer as necessary to control symptoms .
HOW SUPPLIED Acetazolamide Extended - release Capsules , 500 mg are white to off white pellets filled in size " 00 el " empty hard gelatin capsules with opaque yellow colored cap imprinted with " XYL " in black ink and opaque white colored body imprinted with " 34 " in black ink and are supplied as follows : Unit dose packages of 30 ( 3 x 10 ) NDC 60687 - 578 - 21 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken ..
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
PACKAGING INFORMATION American Health Packaging unit dose blisters ( see How Supplied section ) contain drug product from Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc . as follows : ( 500 mg / 30 UD ) NDC 60687 - 578 - 21 packaged from NDC 70710 - 1591 Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 8457821 / 0920 Package / Label Display Panel – Carton – 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 60687 - 578 - 21 AcetaZOLAMIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE Capsules 500 mg 30 Capsules ( 3 x 10 ) Rx Only Each Hard Gelatin Capsule Contains : AcetaZOLAMIDE , USP ........................................................... 500 mg Usual Dosage : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
The drug product contained in this package is from NDC # 70710 - 1591 , Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , Ohio 43217 757821 0457821 / 0920 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel – Blister - 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] AcetaZOLAMIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE Capsule 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
