1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release is indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
• Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are a centrally acting alpha 2 - adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Start with one 0 . 1 mg tablet at bedtime for one week .
Increase daily dosage in increments of 0 . 1 mg / day at weekly intervals until the desired response is achieved .
Take twice a day , with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime , as depicted below ( 2 . 2 ) Total Daily Dose Morning Dose Bedtime Dose 0 . 1 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 0 . 2 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 0 . 1 mg 0 . 3 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 0 . 2 mg 0 . 4 mg / day 0 . 2 mg 0 . 2 mg • Do not crush , chew or break tablet before swallowing .
( 2 . 1 ) • Do not substitute for other clonidine products on a mg - per - mg basis , because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles .
( 2 . 1 ) • When discontinuing , taper the dose in decrements of no more than 0 . 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information Clonidine hydrochloride extended release is an extended - release tablet to be taken orally with or without food .
Swallow tablets whole .
Do not crush , chew , or break tablets because this will increase the rate of clonidine release .
Due to the lack of controlled clinical trial data and differing pharmacokinetic profiles , substitution of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets for other clonidine products on a mg - per - mg basis is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dose Selection The dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets administered either as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant , should be individualized according to the therapeutic needs and response of the patient .
Dosing should be initiated with one 0 . 1 mg tablet at bedtime , and the daily dosage should be adjusted in increments of 0 . 1 mg / day at weekly intervals until the desired response is achieved .
Doses should be taken twice a day , with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Dosing GuidanceTotal Daily Dose Morning Dose Bedtime Dose 0 . 1 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 0 . 2 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 0 . 1 mg 0 . 3 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 0 . 2 mg 0 . 4 mg / day 0 . 2 mg 0 . 2 mg Doses of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets higher than 0 . 4 mg / day ( 0 . 2 mg twice daily ) were not evaluated in clinical trials for ADHD and are not recommended .
When clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets is being added - on to a psychostimulant , the dose of the psychostimulant can be adjusted depending on the patient ' s response to clonidine hydrochloride extended release tablet .
2 . 3 Discontinuation When discontinuing clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the total daily dose should be tapered in decrements of no more than 0 . 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Missed Doses If patients miss a dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , they should skip that dose and take the next dose as scheduled .
Do not take more than the prescribed total daily amount of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablet in any 24 - hour period .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are available in strength 0 . 1 mg as an extended - release formulation .
0 . 1 mg tablets are white to off - white , circular biconvex debossed with ‘ CL ’ on one side and plain on other side .
Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed , cut or chewed .
Extended - release tablets : 0 . 1 mg not scored .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine .
Reactions have included generalized rash , urticaria , and angioedema [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
History of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine .
Reactions have included generalized rash , urticaria , angioedema .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypotension / bradycardia / syncope : Titrate slowly and monitor vital signs frequently in patients at risk for hypotension , heart block , bradycardia , syncope , cardiovascular disease , vascular disease , cerebrovascular disease or chronic renal failure .
Measure heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy , following dose increases , and periodically while on therapy .
Avoid concomitant use of drugs with additive effects unless clinically indicated .
Advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated .
( 5 . 1 ) • Somnolence / Sedation : Has been observed with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Consider the potential for additive sedative effects with CNS depressant drugs .
Caution patients against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
( 5 . 2 ) • Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities : May worsen sinus node dysfunction and atrioventricular ( AV ) block , especially in patients taking other sympatholytic drugs .
Titrate slowly and monitor vital signs frequently .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypotension / Bradycardia Treatment with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause dose related decreases in blood pressure and heart rate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Measure heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy , following dose increases , and periodically while on therapy .
Titrate clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets slowly in patients with a history of hypotension , and those with underlying conditions that may be worsened by hypotension and bradycardia ; e . g . , heart block , bradycardia , cardiovascular disease , vascular disease , cerebrovascular disease , or chronic renal failure .
In patients who have a history of syncope or may have a condition that predisposes them to syncope , such as hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , bradycardia , or dehydration advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated .
Monitor blood pressure and heart rate , and adjust dosages accordingly in patients treated concomitantly with antihypertensives or other drugs that can reduce blood pressure or heart rate or increase the risk of syncope .
5 . 2 Sedation and Somnolence Somnolence and sedation were commonly reported adverse reactions in clinical studies .
In patients that completed 5 weeks of therapy in a controlled , fixed dose pediatric monotherapy study , 31 % of patients treated with 0 . 4 mg / day and 38 % treated with 0 . 2 mg / day versus 4 % of placebo treated patients reported somnolence as an adverse event .
In patients that completed 5 weeks of therapy in a controlled flexible dose pediatric adjunctive to stimulants study , 19 % of patients treated with clonidine hydrochloride extend - release tablet + stimulant versus 7 % treated with placebo + stimulant reported somnolence .
Before using clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets with other centrally active depressants ( such as phenothiazines , barbiturates , or benzodiazepines ) , consider the potential for additive sedative effects .
Caution patients against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to treatment with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Advise patients to avoid use with alcohol .
5 . 3 Rebound Hypertension Abrupt discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause rebound hypertension .
In adults with hypertension , sudden cessation of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release formulation treatment in the 0 . 2 to 0 . 6 mg / day range resulted in reports of headache , tachycardia , nausea , flushing , warm feeling , brief lightheadedness , tightness in chest , and anxiety .
In adults with hypertension , sudden cessation of treatment with immediate - release clonidine has , in some cases , resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , and tremor accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
No studies evaluating abrupt discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in children with ADHD have been conducted ; however , to minimize the risk of rebound hypertension , gradually reduce the dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in decrements of no more than 0 . 1 mg every 3 to 7 days .
Patients should be instructed not to discontinue clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy without consulting their physician due to the potential risk of withdrawal effects .
5 . 4 Allergic Reactions In patients who have developed localized contact sensitization to clonidine transdermal system , continuation of clonidine transdermal system or substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy may be associated with the development of a generalized skin rash .
In patients who develop an allergic reaction from clonidine transdermal system , substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets may also elicit an allergic reaction ( including generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema ) .
5 . 5 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities The sympatholytic action of clonidine may worsen sinus node dysfunction and atrioventricular ( AV ) block , especially in patients taking other sympatholytic drugs .
There have been post - marketing reports of patients with conduction abnormalities and / or taking other sympatholytic drugs who developed severe bradycardia requiring IV atropine , IV isoproterenol , and temporary cardiac pacing while taking clonidine .
Titrate clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets slowly and monitor vital signs frequently in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities or patients concomitantly treated with other sympatholytic drugs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in greater detail elsewhere in labeling : • Hypotension / bradycardia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Sedation and somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Rebound hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence at least 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) as monotherapy in ADHD : somnolence , fatigue , irritability , nightmare , insomnia , constipation , dry mouth .
( 6 . 1 ) Most common adverse reactions ( incidence at least 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) as adjunct therapy to psychostimulant in ADHD : somnolence , fatigue , decreased appetite , dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ajanta Pharma USA Inc . at 1 - 855 - 664 - 7744 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Two clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ADHD clinical studies ( Study 1 , CLON 301 and Study 2 , CLON - 302 ) evaluated 256 patients in two 8 - week placebo - controlled studies .
A third clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ADHD clinical study ( Study 3 , SHN KAP - 401 ) evaluated 135 children and adolescents in a 40 - week placebo - controlled randomized - withdrawal study .
Study 1 : Fixed - dose Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Monotherapy Study 1 ( CLON - 301 ) was a short - term , multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of two fixed doses ( 0 . 2 mg / day or 0 . 4 mg / day ) of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in children and adolescents ( 6 to 17 years of age ) who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD hyperactive or combined inattentive / hyperactive subtypes .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : somnolence , fatigue , irritability , insomnia , nightmare , constipation , dry mouth .
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets – Five patients ( 7 % ) in the low dose group ( 0 . 2 mg ) , 15 patients ( 20 % ) in the high dose group ( 0 . 4 mg ) , and 1 patient in the placebo group ( 1 % ) reported adverse reactions that led to discontinuation .
The most common adverse reactions that led to discontinuation were somnolence and fatigue .
Commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 2 % in either active treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo ) during the treatment period are listed in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Common Adverse Reactions in the Fixed - Dose Monotherapy Trial - Treatment Period ( Study 1 ) Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Preferred Term Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 0 . 2 mg / day N = 76 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 0 . 4 mg / day N = 78 Placebo ( N = 76 ) PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Somnolence [ 1 ] 38 % 31 % 4 % Nightmare 4 % 9 % 0 % Emotional Disorder 4 % 4 % 1 % Aggression 3 % 1 % 0 % Tearfulness 1 % 3 % 0 % Enuresis 0 % 4 % 0 % Sleep Terror 3 % 0 % 0 % Poor Quality Sleep 0 % 3 % 1 % NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 20 % 13 % 16 % Insomnia 5 % 6 % 1 % Tremor 1 % 4 % 0 % Abnormal Sleep - Related Event 3 % 1 % 0 % GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Upper Abdominal Pain 15 % 10 % 12 % Nausea 4 % 5 % 3 % Constipation 1 % 6 % 0 % Dry Mouth 0 % 5 % 1 % GENERAL DISORDERS Fatigue [ 2 ] 16 % 13 % 1 % Irritability 9 % 5 % 4 % CARDIAC DISORDERS Dizziness 7 % 3 % 5 % Bradycardia 0 % 4 % 0 % INVESTIGATIONS Increased Heart Rate 0 % 3 % 0 % METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS Decreased Appetite 3 % 4 % 4 % [ 1 ] Somnolence includes the terms " somnolence " and " sedation " .
[ 2 ] Fatigue includes the terms " fatigue " and " lethargy " .
Commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 2 % in either active treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo ) during the taper period are listed in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Common Adverse Reactions in the Fixed - Dose Monotherapy Trial - Taper Period [ 1 ] ( Study 1 ) Preferred Term Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablet 0 . 2 mg / day N = 76 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 0 . 4 mg / day N = 78 Placebo ( N = 76 ) Abdominal Pain Upper 0 % 6 % 3 % Headache 5 % 2 % 3 % Gastrointestinal Viral 0 % 5 % 0 % Somnolence 2 % 3 % 0 % Heart Rate Increased 0 % 3 % 0 % Otitis Media Acute 3 % 0 % 0 % [ 1 ] Taper Period : 0 . 2 mg dose , week 8 ; 0 . 4 mg dose , weeks 6 to 8 ; Placebo dose , weeks 6 to 8 Study 2 : Flexible - dose Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets as Adjunctive Therapy to Psychostimulants Study 2 ( CLON - 302 ) was a short - term , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of a flexible dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets as adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant in children and adolescents ( 6 to 17 years ) who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD hyperactive or combined inattentive / hyperactive subtypes .
during which clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets was initiated at 0 . 1 mg / day and titrated up to 0 . 4 mg / day over a 3 - week period .
Most clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets treated patients ( 75 . 5 % ) were escalated to the maximum dose of 0 . 4 mg / day .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : somnolence , fatigue , decreased appetite , dizziness .
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation – There was one patient in the CLON + STM group ( 1 % ) who discontinued because of an adverse event ( severe bradyphrenia , with severe fatigue ) .
Commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 2 % in the treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo ) during the treatment period are listed in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Common Adverse Reactions in the Flexible - Dose Adjunctive to Stimulant Therapy Trial - Treatment Period ( Study 2 ) Preferred Term Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets + STM ( N = 102 ) PBO + STM ( N = 96 ) PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Somnolence [ 1 ] 19 % 7 % Aggression 2 % 1 % Affect Lability 2 % 1 % Emotional Disorder 2 % 0 % GENERAL DISORDERS Fatigue [ 2 ] 14 % 4 % Irritability 2 % 7 % NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 7 % 12 % Insomnia 4 % 3 % GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Upper Abdominal Pain 7 % 4 % RESPIRATORY DISORDERS Nasal Congestion 2 % 2 % METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS Decreased Appetite 6 % 3 % CARDIAC DISORDERS Dizziness 5 % 1 % [ 1 ] Somnolence includes the terms : " somnolence " and " sedation " .
[ 2 ] Fatigue includes the terms " fatigue " and " lethargy " .
Commonly observed adverse reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 2 % in the treatment group and greater than the rate on placebo ) during the taper period are listed in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Common Adverse Reactions in the Flexible - Dose Adjunctive to Stimulant Therapy Trial - Taper Period [ 1 ] ( Study 2 ) Preferred Term Percentage of Patients Reporting Event Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets + STM ( N = 102 ) PBO + STM ( N = 96 ) Nasal Congestion 4 % 2 % Headache 3 % 1 % Irritability 3 % 2 % Throat Pain 3 % 1 % Gastroenteritis Viral 2 % 0 % Rash 2 % 0 % [ 1 ] Taper Period : weeks 6 to 8 Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Thirteen percent ( 13 % ) of patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets discontinued from the pediatric monotherapy study due to adverse events , compared to 1 % in the placebo group .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets monotherapy treated patients were from somnolence / sedation ( 5 % ) and fatigue ( 4 % ) .
Effect on Blood Pressure and Heart Rate In patients that completed 5 weeks of treatment in a controlled , fixed - dose monotherapy study in pediatric patients , during the treatment period the maximum placebo - subtracted mean change in systolic blood pressure was - 4 . 0 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 2 mg / day and - 8 . 8 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 4 mg / day .
The maximum placebo - subtracted mean change in diastolic blood pressure was - 4 . 0 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 2 mg / day and - 7 . 3 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 4 mg / day .
The maximum placebo - subtracted mean change in heart rate was - 4 . 0 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 2 mg / day and - 7 . 7 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 4 mg / day .
During the taper period of the fixed - dose monotherapy study the maximum placebo - subtracted mean change in systolic blood pressure was + 3 . 4 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 2 mg / day and - 5 . 6 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 4 mg / day .
The maximum placebo - subtracted mean change in diastolic blood pressure was + 3 . 3 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 2 mg / day and - 5 . 4 mmHg on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 4 mg / day .
The maximum placebo - subtracted mean change in heart rate was - 0 . 6 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 2 mg / day and - 3 . 0 beats per minute on clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets 0 . 4 mg / day .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events exclude those already mentioned in 6 . 1 : Psychiatric : hallucinations Cardiovascular : Q - T prolongation 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following have been reported with other oral immediate release formulations of clonidine : Table 6 : Clinically Important Drug InteractionsConcomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Tricyclic antidepressants Increase blood pressure and may counteract clonidine ’ s hypotensive effects Monitor blood pressure and adjust as needed Antihypertensive drugs Potentiate clonidine ’ s hypotensive effects Monitor blood pressure and adjust as needed CNS depressants Potentiate sedating effects Avoid use Drugs that affect sinus node function or AV node conduction ( e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers , beta blockers ) Potentiate bradycardia and risk of AV block Avoid use • Sedating Drugs : Clonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedating drugs .
( 7 ) • Tricyclic Antidepressants : May reduce the hypotensive effect of clonidine .
( 7 ) • Drugs Known to Affect Sinus Node Function or AV Nodal Conduction : Caution is warranted in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction ( e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers and beta - blockers ) due to a potential for additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block .
( 7 ) • Antihypertensive drugs : Use caution when coadministered with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal Impairment : The dosage of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be adjusted according to the degree of impairment , and patients should be carefully monitored .
( 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHD medications , including clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for ADHD Medications at 1 - 866961 - 2388 or visiting https : / / womensmentalhealth . org / adhd - medications / .
Risk Summary Prolonged experience with clonidine in pregnant women over several decades , based on published literature , including controlled trials , a retrospective cohort study and case reports , have not identified a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , and adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal embryofetal studies , increased resorptions were seen in rats and mice administered oral clonidine hydrochloride from implantation through organogenesis at 10 and 5 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) given to adolescents on a mg / m 2 basis .
No developmental effects were seen in rabbits administered oral clonidine hydrochloride during organogenesis at doses up to 3 times the MRHD ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of clonidine hydrochloride to pregnant rabbits during the period of embryo / fetal organogenesis at doses of up to 80 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the oral maximum recommended daily dose [ MRHD ] of 0 . 4 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m 2 basis ) produced no developmental effects .
In pregnant rats , however , doses as low as 15 mcg / kg / day ( 1 / 3 the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m 2 basis ) were associated with increased resorptions in a study in which dams were treated continuously from 2 months prior to mating and throughout gestation .
Increased resorptions were not associated with treatment at the same or at higher dose levels ( up to 3 times the MRHD ) when treatment of the dams was restricted to gestation days 6 to 15 .
Increases in resorptions were observed in both rats and mice at 500 mcg / kg / day ( 10 and 5 times the MRHD in rats and mice , respectively ) or higher when the animals were treated on gestation days 1 to 14 ; 500 mcg / kg / day was the lowest dose employed in this study .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Based on published lactation studies , clonidine hydrochloride is present in human milk at relative infant doses ranging from 4 . 1 to 8 . 4 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage .
Although in most cases , there were no reported adverse effects in breastfed infants exposed to clonidine , there is one case report of sedation , hypotonia , and apnea in an infant exposed to clonidine through breast milk .
If an infant is exposed to clonidine hydrochloride through breastmilk , monitor for symptoms of hypotension and bradycardia , such as sedation , lethargy , tachypnea and poor feeding ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
Exercise caution when clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants exposed to clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets through br for symptoms of hypotension and / or bradycardia such as sedation , lethargy , tachypnea , and poor feeding .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Based on findings in Animal studies revealed that clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets may impair fertility in females and males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in the treatment of ADHD have been established in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age .
Use of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age is supported by three adequate and well - controlled studies ; a short - term , placebo - controlled monotherapy trial , a short - term adjunctive therapy trial and a longer - term randomized monotherapy trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years has not been established .
Juvenile Animal Data In studies in juvenile rats , clonidine hydrochloride alone or in combination with methylphenidate had an effect on bone growth at clinically relevant doses and produced a slight delay in sexual maturation in males at 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) for clonidine and methylphenidate .
In a study where juvenile rats were treated orally with clonidine hydrochloride from day 21 of age to adulthood , a slight delay in onset of preputial separation ( delayed sexual maturation ) was seen in males treated with 300 mcg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the MRHD of 0 . 4 mg / day on a mg / m 2 basis .
The no - effect dose was 100 mcg / kg / day , which is approximately equal to the MRHD .
There was no drug effects on fertility or on other measures of sexual or neurobehavioral development .
In a study where juvenile rats were treated with clonidine alone ( 300 mcg / kg / day ) or in combination with methylphenidate ( 10 mg / kg / day in females and 50 / 30 mg / kg / day in males ; the dose was lowered from 50 to 30 mg / kg / day in males due to self - injurious behavior during the first week of treatment ) from day 21 of age to adulthood , decreases in bone mineral density and mineral content were observed in males treated with 300 mcg / kg / day clonidine alone and in combination with 50 / 30 mg / kg / day methylphenidate and a decrease in femur length was observed in males treated with the combination at the end of the treatment period .
These doses are approximately 3 times the MRHD of 0 . 4 mg / day clonidine and 54 mg / day methylphenidate on a mg / m 2 basis .
All these effects in male were not reversed at the end of a 4 - week recovery period .
In addition , similar findings were seen in males treated with a lower dose of clonidine ( 30 mcg / kg / day ) in combination with 50 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate and a decrease in femur length was observed in females treated with clonidine alone at the end of the recovery period .
These effects were accompanied by a decrease in body weight gain in treated animals during the treatment period but the effect was reversed at the end of the recovery period .
A delay in preputial separation ( sexual maturation ) was observed in males treated with the combination treatment of 300 mcg / kg / day clonidine and 50 / 30 mg / kg / day methylphenidate .
There was no effect on reproduction or sperm analysis in these males .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of clonidine in children has not been assessed .
The initial dosage of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be based on degree of impairment .
Monitor patients carefully for hypotension and bradycardia , and titrate to higher doses cautiously .
Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis , there is no need to give supplemental clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets following dialysis .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets is not a controlled substance and has no known potential for abuse or dependence .
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms Clonidine overdose : hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
Treatment Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice .
11 DESCRIPTION Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release is a centrally acting alpha 2 - adrenergic agonist available as 0 . 1 mg extended - release tablets for oral administration .
Each 0 . 1 mg tablet is equivalent to 0 . 087 mg , respectively , of the free base .
The inactive ingredients are sodium lauryl sulfate , microcrystalline cellulose , hypromellose , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate .
The formulation is designed to delay the absorption of active drug in order to decrease peak to trough plasma concentration differences .
Clonidine hydrochloride , USP is an imidazoline derivative and exists as a mesomeric compound .
The chemical name is 2 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenylamino ) 2 - imidazoline hydrochloride .
The following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 9 H 9 Cl 2 N 3 • HCl Mol .
Wt .
266 . 56 Clonidine hydrochloride , USP is an odorless , bitter , white , crystalline substance soluble in water and alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clonidine stimulates alpha 2 - adrenergic receptors in the brain .
Clonidine is not a central nervous system stimulant .
The mechanism of action of clonidine in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clonidine is a known antihypertensive agent .
By stimulating alpha 2 - adrenergic receptors in the brain stem , clonidine reduces sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and decreases peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Single - dose Pharmacokinetics in Adults Immediate - release clonidine hydrochloride and clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets have different pharmacokinetic characteristics ; dose substitution on a milligram for milligram basis will result in differences in exposure .
A comparison across studies suggests that the C max is 50 % lower for clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets compared to immediate - release clonidine hydrochloride .
Following oral administration of an immediate release formulation , plasma clonidine concentration peaks in approximately 3 to 5 hours and the plasma half - life ranges from 12 to 16 hours .
The half - life increases up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
Following oral administration about 40 % - 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug in 24 hours .
About 50 % of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
Although studies of the effect of renal impairment and studies of clonidine excretion have not been performed with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , results are likely to be similar to those of the immediate release formulation .
The pharmacokinetic profile of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets administration was evaluated in an open - label , three - period , randomized , crossover study of 15 healthy adult subjects who received three single - dose regimens of clonidine : 0 . 1 mg of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets under fasted conditions , 0 . 1 mg of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets following a high fat meal , and 0 . 1 mg of clonidine immediate - release ( Catapres ® ) under fasted conditions .
Treatments were separated by one - week washout periods .
Mean concentration - time data from the 3 treatments are shown in Table 7 and Figure 1 .
After administration of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , maximum clonidine concentrations were approximately 50 % of the Catapres maximum concentrations and occurred approximately 5 hours later relative to Catapres .
Similar elimination half - lives were observed and total systemic bioavailability following clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets was approximately 89 % of that following Catapres .
Food had no effect on plasma concentrations , bioavailability , or elimination half - life .
Table 7 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Clonidine in Healthy Adult Volunteers Clonidine Hydrochloride Immediate - Release - Fasted n = 15 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets - Fed n = 15 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets - Fasted n = 14 Parameter Mean SD Mean SD MEAN SD C max ( pg / mL ) 443 59 . 6 235 34 . 7 258 33 . 3 AUC inf ( hr * pg / mL ) 7313 1812 6505 1728 6729 1650 hT max ( hr ) 2 . 07 0 . 5 6 . 80 3 . 61 6 . 50 1 . 23 T 1 / 2 ( hr ) 12 . 57 3 . 11 12 . 67 3 . 76 12 . 65 3 . 56 Figure 1 Mean Clonidine Concentration - Time Profiles after Single Dose Administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] Multiple - dose Pharmacokinetics in Children and Adolescents Plasma clonidine concentrations in children and adolescents ( 0 . 1 mg bid and 0 . 2 mg bid ) with ADHD are greater than those of adults with hypertension with children and adolescents receiving higher doses on a mg / kg basis .
Body weight normalized clearance ( CL / F ) in children and adolescents was higher than CL / F observed in adults with hypertension .
Clonidine concentrations in plasma increased with increases in dose over the dose range of 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 mg / day .
Clonidine CL / F was independent of dose administered over the 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 mg / day dose range .
Clonidine CL / F appeared to decrease slightly with increases in age over the range of 6 to 17 years , and females had a 23 % lower CL / F than males .
The incidence of " sedation - like " AEs ( somnolence and fatigue ) appeared to be independent of clonidine dose or concentration within the studied dose range in the titration study .
Results from the add - on study showed that clonidine CL / F was 11 % higher in patients who were receiving methylphenidate and 44 % lower in those receiving amphetamine compared to subjects not on adjunctive therapy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Clonidine Hydrochloride was not carcinogenic when administered in the diet of rats ( for up to 132 weeks ) or mice ( for up to 78 weeks ) at doses of up to 1 , 620 ( male rats ) , 2 , 040 ( female rats ) , or 2 , 500 ( mice ) mcg / kg / day .
These doses are approximately 20 , 25 , and 15 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 0 . 4 mg / day on a mg / m 2 basis .
Mutagenesis There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test for mutagenicity or mouse micronucleus test for clastogenicity .
Impairment of Fertility In a reproduction study fertility of female rats appeared to be adversely affected at dose levels of 500 and 2000 mcg / kg / day ( 10 and 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
Lower doses have not been adequately evaluated and a no adverse effect level could not be established .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy of clonidine hydrochloride extended release tablets in the treatment of ADHD was established in children and adolescents ( 6 to 17 years ) in : • One short - term , placebo - controlled monotherapy trial ( Study 1 ) • One short - term adjunctive therapy to psychostimulants trial ( Study 2 ) • One randomized withdrawal trial as monotherapy ( Study 3 ) Short - term Monotherapy and Adjunctive Therapy to Psychostimulant Studies for ADHD The efficacy of clonidine hydrochloride extended release tablets in the treatment of ADHD was established in 2 ( one monotherapy and one adjunctive therapy ) placebo - controlled trials in pediatric patients aged 6 to 17 , who met DSM - IV criteria of ADHD hyperactive or combined hyperactive / inattentive subtypes .
Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated using the investigator administered and scored ADHD Rating Scale - IV - Parent Version ( ADHDRS - IV ) total score including hyperactive / impulsivity and inattentive subscales .
Study 1 ( CLON - 301 ) , was an 8 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , fixed dose study of children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 ( N = 236 ) with a 5 - week primary efficacy endpoint .
Patients were randomly assigned to one of the following three treatment groups : clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( CLON ) 0 . 2 mg / day ( N = 78 ) , Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release Tablets 0 . 4 mg / day ( N = 80 ) , or placebo ( N = 78 ) .
Dosing for the clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets groups started at 0 . 1 mg / day and was titrated in increments of 0 . 1 mg / week to their respective dose ( as divided doses ) .
Patients were maintained at their dose for a minimum of 2 weeks before being gradually tapered down to 0 . 1 mg / day at the last week of treatment .
At both doses , improvements in ADHD symptoms were statistically significantly superior in clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patients compared with placebo - treated patients at the end of 5 weeks as measured by the ADHDRS - IV total score ( Table 8 ) .
Study 2 ( CLON - 302 ) was an 8 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , flexible dose study in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 ( N = 198 ) with a 5 - week primary efficacy end point .
Patients had been treated with a psychostimulant ( methylphenidate or amphetamine ) for four weeks with inadequate response .
Patients were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups : clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets adjunct to a psychostimulant ( N = 102 ) or psychostimulant alone ( N = 96 ) .
The clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets dose was initiated at 0 . 1 mg / day and doses were titrated in increments of 0 . 1 mg / week up to 0 . 4 mg / day , as divided doses , over a 3 - week period based on tolerability and clinical response .
The dose was maintained for a minimum of 2 weeks before being gradually tapered to 0 . 1 mg / day at the last week of treatment .
ADHD symptoms were statistically significantly improved in clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets plus stimulant group compared with the stimulant alone group at the end of 5 weeks as measured by the ADHDRS - IV total score ( Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Short - Term TrialsSD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : unadjusted confidence interval .
Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure : ADHDRS - IV Total Score Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Difference [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( 0 . 2 mg / day ) 43 . 8 ( 7 . 47 ) - 15 . 0 ( 1 . 38 ) - 8 . 5 ( - 12 . 2 , - 4 . 8 ) Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( 0 . 4 mg / day ) 44 . 6 ( 7 . 73 ) - 15 . 6 ( 1 . 33 ) - 9 . 1 ( - 12 . 8 , - 5 . 5 ) Placebo 45 . 0 ( 8 . 53 ) - 6 . 5 ( 1 . 35 ) Study 2 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( 0 . 4 mg / day ) + Psychostimulant 38 . 9 ( 6 . 95 ) - 15 . 8 ( 1 . 18 ) - 4 . 5 ( - 7 . 8 , - 1 . 1 ) Psychostimulant alone 39 . 0 ( 7 . 68 ) - 11 . 3 ( 1 . 24 ) [ 1 ] Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
Maintenance Monotherapy for ADHD Study 3 ( SHN - KAP - 401 ) , was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized - withdrawal study in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years ( n = 253 ) with DSM - IV - TR diagnosis of ADHD .
The study consisted of a 10 - week , open - label phase ( 4 weeks of dose optimization and 6 weeks of dose maintenance ) , a 26 - week double - blind phase , and a 4 - week taper - down and follow - up phase .
All patients were initiated at 0 . 1 mg / day and increased at weekly intervals in increments of 0 . 1 mg / day until reaching personalized optimal dose ( 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 3 or 0 . 4 mg / day , as divided doses ) .
Eligible patients had to demonstrate treatment response as defined by greater than or equal to 30 % reduction in ADHD - RS - IV total score and a Clinical Global Impression - Improvement score of 1 or 2 during the open label phase .
Patients who sustained treatment response ( n = 135 ) until the end of the open label phase were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups , clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( N = 68 ) and Placebo ( N = 67 ) , to evaluate the long - term efficacy of maintenance dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in the double - blind phase .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the percentage of patients with treatment failure defined as a greater than or equal to 30 % increase ( worsening ) in ADHD - RS - IV total score and greater than or equal to 2 points increase ( worsening ) in Clinical Global Impression – Severity Scale in 2 consecutive visits or early termination for any reason .
A total of 73 patients experienced treatment failure in the double - blind phase : 31 patients ( 45 . 6 % ) in the clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets group and 42 patients ( 62 . 7 % ) in the placebo group , with a statistically significant difference in the primary endpoint favoring clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( Table 9 ) .
The cumulative proportion of patients with treatment failure over time during the double - blind phase is displayed in Figure 2 .
Table 9 : Treatment Failure : Double - Blind Full Analysis Set ( Study 3 ) ADHD - RS - IV = Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder - Rating Scale - 4 th edition ; CGI - S = Clinical Global Impression - Severity Study 3 Double - Blind Full Analysis Set Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo Number of subjects 68 67 Number of treatment failures 31 ( 45 . 6 % ) 42 ( 62 . 7 % ) Basis of Treatment Failure Clinical criteria [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] 11 ( 16 . 2 % ) 9 ( 13 . 4 % ) Lack of efficacy [ 3 ] 1 ( 1 . 5 % ) 3 ( 4 . 5 % ) Withdrawal of informed assent / consent 4 ( 5 . 9 % ) 20 ( 29 . 9 % ) Other early terminations 15 ( 22 . 1 % ) 10 ( 14 . 9 % ) [ 1 ] At the same 2 consecutive visits a ( 1 ) 30 % or greater reduction in ADHD - RS - IV , and ( 2 ) 2 - point or more increase in CGI - S .
[ 2 ] Two subjects ( 1 placebo and 1 clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) withdrew consent , but met the clinical criteria for treatment failure .
[ 3 ] Three subjects ( all placebo ) discontinued the study due to treatment failure , but met only the criterion for ADHD - RS - IV .
Figure 2 : Kaplan - Meier Estimation of Cumulative Proportion of Patients with Treatment Failure ( Study 3 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are white to off - white , circular biconvex debossed with ( " CL ” ) on one side and plain on other side .
The 0 . 1 mg round tablets are supplied as unit dose packages of 30 ( 3 x 10 ) NDC 60687 - 462 - 21 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) Dosage and Administration Advise patients that clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole , never crushed , cut , or chewed , and may be taken with or without food .
When initiating treatment , provide dosage escalation instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Missed Dose If patients miss a dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , advise them to skip the dose and take the next dose as scheduled and not to take more than the prescribed total daily amount of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets in any 24 - hour period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Hypotension / Bradycardia Advise patients who have a history of syncope or may have a condition that predisposes them to syncope , such as hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , bradycardia , or dehydration , to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Sedation and Somnolence Instruct patients to use caution when driving a car or operating hazardous machinery until they know how they will respond to treatment with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Also advise patients to avoid the use of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets with other centrally active depressants and with alcohol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Rebound Hypertension Advise patients not to discontinue clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets abruptly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Allergic Reactions Advise patients to discontinue clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets and seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction occur , such as generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in patients exposed to clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise breastfeeding women using clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets to monitor infants for excess sedation , decreased muscle tone , and respiratory depression and to seek medical care if they notice these signs [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Fertility Advise females and males of reproductive potential that clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
PACKAGING INFORMATION American Health Packaging unit dose blisters ( see HOW SUPPLIED section ) contain drug product from Ajanta Pharma USA Inc . as follows : ( 0 . 1 mg / 30 UD ) NDC 60687 - 462 - 21 packaged from NDC 27241 - 108 Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 8446221 / 0921 F # All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners Patient Information 8446221 / 0921 F Clonidine hydrochloride ( kloe ' ni deen hye '' droe klor ' ide ) Extended - Release Tablets Rx Only Read the Patient Information that comes with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Patient Information leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What are clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine used for the treatment of Attention - Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) .
Your doctor may prescribe clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets alone or together with certain other ADHD medicines .
• Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
• Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be used as part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include counseling or other therapies .
Who should not take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Do not take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you are allergic to clonidine in clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
What should I tell my doctor before taking clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Before you take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have kidney problems • have low or high blood pressure • have a history of passing out ( syncope ) • have heart problems , including history of heart attack • have had a stroke or have stroke symptoms • had a skin reaction ( such as a rash ) after taking clonidine in a transdermal form ( skin patch ) • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if clonidine hydrochloride will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to ADHD medications , including clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry of ADHD Medications at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or visit online at https : / / womensmentalhealth . org / adhdmedications / .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Clonidine hydrochloride can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines that you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets and certain other medicines may affect each other causing serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines may need to be changed while taking clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • anti - depression medicines • heart or blood pressure medicine • other medicines that contain clonidine • a medicine that makes you sleepy ( sedation ) Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure if your medicine is listed above .
Know the medicines that you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Your doctor will tell you how many clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets to take and when to take them .
Your doctor may change your dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Do not change your dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets without talking to your doctor .
• Do not stop taking clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets without talking to your doctor .
• Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets can be taken with or without food .
• Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken 2 times a day ( in the morning and at bedtime ) .
• If you miss a dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , skip the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take two doses at the same time .
• Take clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole .
Do not chew , crush or break clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Tell your doctor if you cannot swallow clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole .
You may need a different medicine .
• If you take too much clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , call your Poison Control Center or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets until you talk with your doctor .
Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets taken with alcohol or medicines that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
• Do not drive , operate heavy machinery or do other dangerous activities until you know how clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets will affect you .
• Avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated .
What are possible side effects of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • Low blood pressure and low heart rate .
Your doctor should check your heart rate and blood pressure before starting treatment and regularly during treatment with clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Sleepiness .
• Withdrawal symptoms .
Suddenly stopping clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause withdrawal symptoms including : increased blood pressure , headache , increased heart rate , lightheadedness , tightness in your chest and nervousness .
The most common side effects of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets include : • sleepiness • tiredness • irritability • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • nightmare • constipation • dry mouth • decreased appetite • dizziness Tell your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Store clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets between 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Keep clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets , call .
Ajanta Pharma USA Inc . at 1 - 855 - 664 - 7744 What are the ingredients in clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Active Ingredient : clonidine hydrochloride , USP • Inactive Ingredients : sodium lauryl sulfate , microcrystalline cellulose , hypromellose , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , OH 43217 8446221 / 0921 F # All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners Package / Label Display Panel – Carton – 0 . 1 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 60687 - 462 - 21 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 0 . 1 mg 30 Tablets ( 3 x 10 ) Rx Only Each Extended - Release tablet contains 0 . 1 mg Clonidine Hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 0 . 087 mg Clonidine .
Do not substitute clonidine hydrochloride extended - release tablets for other clonidine products .
Usual Dosage : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed , cut , or chewed .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION : Do not use if blister is torn or broken .
The drug product contained in this package is from NDC # 27241 - 108 , Ajanta Pharma USA Inc .
Distributed by : American Health Packaging Columbus , Ohio 43217 746221 0446221 / 0619 OS [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel – Blister – 0 . 1 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablet 0 . 1 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
