Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine .
- Keep this leaflet .
You may need to read it again .
- If you have any further questions , ask your doctor or your pharmacist .
- This medicine has been prescribed for you .
Do not pss it on to others .
It may harm them , even if their symptoms are the same as yours .
- If any of the side effects get serious or you notice any side effects listed in this leaflet , please tell your doctor or your pharmacist .
What testosterone Implants are and what they are used for Testosterone implants are pellets containing 100 mg of the active ingredient testosterone .
These implants are used in hormone replacement therapy in men .
Testosterone is a natural male hormone , known as an androgen , which controls normal sexual development in men .
Testosterone implants are used in testosterone replacement therapy in men with low or no natural testosterone ( a condition known as hypogonadism ) .
Before you are given Testosterone Implants Do not use Testosterone Implants if you : - are allergic ( hypersensitive ) to testosterone - have prostate cancer or breast cancer Take special care with Testosterone Implants : Extra supervision by your doctor may be necessary in some cases : particularly the elderly .
- > Tell your doctor if you have ever had : - heart disease - kidney disease - liver disease - high blood pressure - epilepsy - migraine - cancer of the bone - sleep apnea ( temporary stopping of breathing during your sleep ) , If this gets worse during treatment you should also tell your doctor .
Blood tests may be affected .
Children and adolescents Safety and efficacy have not been adequately determined in children and adolescents .
Extra supervision by the doctor is necessary in the treatment of young boys since male hormones may cause early sexual development and delay growth .
Taking other medicines Other medicines may affect how Testosterone Implants work or Testosterone Implants may affect how they work .
These include : • Certain medicines that change the amount of enzymes to be made in the liver e . g . medicines used to treat epilepsy ( phenobarbital ) .
These drugs may affect the levels of testosterone in your body and your doctor may need to adjust the dose of your Testosterone Implants .
• Certain medicines that thin the blood ( anti - coagulants ) .
Your doctor may need to adjust the dose of your anticoagulant .
• Medicines for diabetes .
Your doctor may need to adjust the dose of your medicine for diabetes .
• Other hormone medicines ( for example corticosteroids or ACTH , used to treat various conditions such as rheumatism , arthritis , allergic conditions and asthma ) .
- > Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines , including medicines obtained without prescription .
Laboratory Tests Testosterone Implants may also affect the results of some laboratory tests ( e . g . thyroid gland and liver function tests ) .
Tell your doctor or the laboratory staff that you are using Testosterone Implants .
Pregnancy and breast - feeding Testosterone Implants are not for use in women .
Testosterone Implants must not be taken during pregnancy or when you are breast feeding .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine .
Driving and using machines As far as known Testosterone Implants have no adverse affects on alertness or concentration .
How you are given Testosterone Implants Testosterone Implants are normally given by a doctor .
Testosterone Implants are inserted under the skin into the lower abdominal wall or buttock by your doctor .
You are usually given a local anaesthetic in this areabefore the implant is inserted and the small cut made is dressed with a bandage afterwards .
The implant usually lasts for 4 or 5 months .
the dose depends on your illness and how bad it is .
Your doctor will decide the dose .
In men a dose of 100 - 400 mg is usual , but this depends on each individual .
If you are given more Testosterone than you should : - > If you think you have been given too musch Testosterone , tell your doctor straight away , as they may wish to remove the implant .
The following effects may happen : • frequent erections in men • changes in your red blood cells ( polycythemia ) , which your doctor may monitor for .
Possible side effects Like all medicines , Testosterone Implants can have side effects , although not everybody gets them .
The most common side effect with the Implant are : • infection , bruising or bleeding at the implantion site • the implant may start to come out of the implantation site .
The other possible side effects include : • worsening of the early stages of prostate cancer • Increased levels of a blood marker which is associated with prostate cancer ( PSA increased ) • growth of the prostate gland • prolonged painful erection • ejaculation disorder • increase or decrease in sexual desire • changes in sperm formation • enlargement of breasts • acne • itching ( pruritus ) • high blood pressure ( hypertension ) • swollen legs or ankles ( caused by water retention ) • changes in your red blood cells ( polycythemia ) • changes in cholesterol levels • muscle pain ( myalgia ) • feeling sick • changes in mood , feelings of depression or nervousness .
• increased risk of water retention , especially if your heart and liver are not working properly In young boys , it may cause : • early sexual development • erections occurring more often than normal • enlarged penis • delayed growth - > If you are having laboratory tests , tell your doctor or laboratory staff that you are using Testosterone Implants .
- > If any other side effects get serious , or if you notice any side effects not listed , please tell your doctor or pharmacist .
How to store Testosterone Implants Keep out of reach of children .
Do not store above 25 o C . Store in original package .
Do not use Testosterone Implants after the expiry date stated on the package and ampule .
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or houdehold waste .
Ask your pharmacist how to dispose of medicines no longer required .
These measures will help in protecting the enviroment .
Further Information What Testosterone Implants contain 100 mg Implant • The active substance is testosterone 100 mg per implant .
other inert ingredients - polyvinylpyrrolidone USP 2 mg and stearic acid 1 mg What Testosterone Implants look like and contents of the pack Testosterone Implants are white to pale yellow pellets .
Each sterile implant is supplied simply in a sealed glass ampule .
Manufactured by : ADVANCED PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGY Phone : ( 914 ) 358 - 5260 132 South Central Avenue Elmsford , NY 10523 USA Testo - 100 ( 57377 - 100 - 01 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Testo - 100 Brand of Testosterone 10 Sterile Pellets For subcutaneous implantation Each pellet contains : 100 mg testosterone Usual Dosage : See package insert .
Caution : Federal Law prohibits dispensing without presciption .
Store at room temperature .
