Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 15 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Uses • temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • chronic cough that lasts as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema When using this product , do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , cough comes back , or occurs by fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • take recommended dosage or as directed by a doctor • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device • keep dosing cup with product • shake well before using • mL = milliliter age dose adults and children 12 years and over 10 mL every 6 - 8 hours not to exceed 4 doses in 24 hours , children 6 to 11 years of age 5 mL every 6 - 8 hours not to exceed 4 doses in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , disodium EDTA , FD & C yellow # 6 , flavor , glycerin , high fructose corn syrup , hydroxyethyl cellulose , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sucralose , sucrose , xanthan gum Questilons or comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 309 - 9030 Principal Display Panel For Ages 6 Years and over Adult Cough Relief Dextromethorphan HBr 15 mg Cough suppressant Relieves : • Cough • Minor throat and bronchial irritation • impulse to cough 6 - 8 Hour Relief Alcohol free FL OZ ( mL ) Orange flavor Dosing Cup Included TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND BOTTLE OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
DISTRIBUTED BY DOLGENCORP , LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
