1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older .
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % is a combination of adapalene , a retinoid , and benzoyl peroxide , and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only ; adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Apply adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad to affected areas of the face and / or trunk once daily after washing .
Use pad for area of the face ( e . g . , forehead , chin , each cheek ) .
Avoid the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) Apply adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad to affected areas of the face and / or trunk once daily after washing .
Use pad amount for area of the face ( e .
g . , fore head , chin , each cheek ) .
Avoid the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad contains 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) adapalene , USP and 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) benzoyl peroxide , USP .
Each gram of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad contains 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) adapalene , USP and 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) benzoyl peroxide , USP .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure : Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps .
Wear sunscreen when sun exposure cannot be avoided .
( 5 . 1 ) Erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging / burning , irritant and allergic contact dermatitis may occur with use of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad and may necessitate discontinuation .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
Patients with high levels of sun exposure and those with inherent sensitivity to sun should exercise particular caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective apparel , ( e . g . , hat ) are recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , may be irritating to patients under treatment with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
5 . 2 Local Cutaneous Reactions Erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning may be experienced with use of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
These are most likely to occur during the first four weeks of treatment , are mostly mild to moderate in intensity , and usually lessen with continued use of the medication .
Irritant and allergic contact dermatitis may occur .
Depending upon the severity of these adverse reactions , patients should be instructed to use a moisturizer , reduce the frequency of the application of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad , or discontinue use .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous or sunburned skin .
As with other retinoids , use of “ waxing ” as a depilatory method should be avoided on skin treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
Avoid concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have strong skin - drying effect and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or limes ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most commonly reported adverse events ( greater than or equal to 1 % ) in patients treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide were dry skin , contact dermatitis , application site burning , application site irritation and skin irritation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gabar at 1 - 470 - 737 - 9424 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During clinical trials , 1401 subjects were exposed to adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
A total of 1036 subjects with acne vulgaris , 12 years and older , were treated once daily for 12 weeks to 12 months .
Related adverse events reported within 12 weeks of treatment and in at least 1 % of subjects treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide and those reported in subjects treated with the vehicle are presented in Table 1 : Table 1 .
Drug Related Adverse Events Reported in Clinical Trials by At Least 1 % of Patients Treated For 12 Weeks System Organ Class / Preferred Term Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide N = 564 Vehicle N = 489 Subjects with AE ( s ) 14 % 4 % Dry Skin 7 % 2 % Contact dermatitis 3 % < 1 % Application site burning 2 % < 1 % Application site irritation 1 % < 1 % Skin irritation 1 % 0 % Local tolerability evaluations , presented in Table 2 , were conducted at each study visit in clinical trials by assessment of erythema , scaling , dryness , burning , and stinging .
Table 2 .
Incidence of Local Cutaneous Irritation in Controlled Clinical Trials ( N = 553 ) Treatment Emergent Signs and Symptoms Maximum Severity During Treatment End of Treatment Severity ( 12 Weeks ) Mild Moderate Severe Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 27 % 13 % 1 % 8 % 2 % 1 % Scaling 35 % 11 % 1 % 9 % 1 % < 1 % Dryness 41 % 13 % 1 % 10 % 2 % < 1 % Stinging / burning 41 % 15 % 3 % 7 % 2 % 1 % Analysis over the 12 week period showed that local tolerability scores for erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning peaked at Week 1 of therapy and decreased thereafter .
During a pediatric clinical trial , 285 children with acne vulgaris , 9 to 11 years of age were treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide or with the vehicle once daily for 12 weeks .
Overall , the safety profile of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide in these subjects is comparable to the safety profile observed in older subjects 12 years of age and above , both in the nature and frequency of the observed events .
Analysis of local tolerability evaluations shows similar incidence of treatment emergent signs and symptoms as in subjects 12 years of age and above , with local tolerability signs and symptoms peaking during the first week and decreasing over time .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide : eyelid edema , sunburn , blister , pain of skin , pruritus , swelling face , conjunctivitis , skin discoloration , rash , eczema , throat tightness and allergic contact dermatitis .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating , or abrasive agents .
No formal drugdrug interaction studies were conducted with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C There are no well - controlled trials in pregnant women treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with the combination or benzoyl peroxide .
Furthermore , such studies are not always predictive of human response ; therefore , adapalene and benzoyl peroxide should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
No teratogenic effects were observed in rats treated with oral doses of 0 . 15 to 5 mg adapalene / kg / day , up to 25 times ( mg / m 2 / day ) the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 grams of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
However , teratogenic changes were observed in rats and rabbits when treated with oral doses of greater than or equal to 25 mg adapalene / kg / day representing 123 and 246 times MRHD , respectively .
Findings included cleft palate , microphthalmia , encephalocele and skeletal abnormalities in rats ; and umbilical hernia , exophthalmos and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in rabbits .
Dermal teratology studies conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 6 to 6 mg adapalene / kg / day [ 25 to 59 times ( mg / m 2 ) the MRHD ] exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether adapalene or benzoyl peroxide is excreted in human milk following use of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when adapalene and benzoyl peroxide is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide in pediatric patients under the age of 9 have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % is a 1 . 2 g gel pad for topical use containing adapalene USP , 0 . 1 % and benzoyl peroxide USP , 2 . 5 % .
Adapalene USP , a synthetic retinoid , is a naphthoic acid derivative with retinoid - like properties .
The chemical name for adapalene , USP is ( 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid ) .
It has the following structural formula : Adapalene , USP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C 28 H 28 O 3 Molecular weight : 412 . 5 Benzoyl Peroxide , USP is a highly lipophilic oxidizing agent that localizes in both bacterial and keratinocyte cell membranes .
The chemical name for benzoyl peroxide , USP is dibenzoyl peroxide .
It has the following structural formula : Benzoyl Peroxide , USP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C 14 H 10 O 4 Molecular weight : 242 . 23 Inactive ingredients : carbomer 980 , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , poloxamer 182 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monooleate and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Adapalene Adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to cytosolic receptor protein .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization and inflammatory processes .
However , the significance of these findings with regard to the mechanism of action of adapalene for the treatment of acne is unknown .
Benzoyl peroxide Benzoyl peroxide is an oxidizing agent with bactericidal and keratolytic effects .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics A pharmacokinetic study was conducted in 10 adult subjects with acne vulgaris who were treated once daily for 30 days with 2 grams / day of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide applied to 1000 cm 2 of acne involved skin , ( face , chest , and upper back ) .
Two subjects ( 20 % ) had quantifiable adapalene plasma concentrations above the limit of quantification ( LOQ = 0 . 1 ng / mL ) .
The highest adapalene C max and AUC 0 - 24 h was 0 . 21 ng / mL and 1 . 99 ng • h / mL , respectively .
Excretion of adapalene appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
Pharmacokinetics of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide in pediatric subjects have not been evaluated .
Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is converted to benzoic acid and eliminated in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , photocarcinogenicity , genotoxicity , or fertility studies were conducted with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene have been conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 4 , 1 . 3 , and 4 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 2 , 3 . 9 , and 12 mg / m 2 / day ) , and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 , 3 . 0 , and 9 . 0 mg / m 2 / day ) .
In terms of body surface area , the highest dose levels are 9 . 8 ( mice ) and 7 . 4 times ( rats ) the MRHD of 2 grams of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide .
In the rat study , an increased incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medulla of male rats was observed .
No significant increase in tumor formation was observed in rodents topically treated with 15 to 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol ( 6 to 10 times the concentration of benzoyl peroxide in adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ) for two years .
Rats received maximum daily applications of 138 ( males ) and 205 ( females ) mg benzoyl peroxide / kg .
In terms of body surface area , these levels are 27 to 40 times the MRHD .
Similar results were obtained in mice topically treated with 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol for 56 weeks followed by intermittent treatment with 15 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol for rest of the 2 year study period , and in mice topically treated with 5 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol for two years .
The role of benzoyl peroxide as a tumor promoter has been well established in several animal species .
However , the significance of this finding in humans is unknown .
In a photocarcinogenicity study conducted with 5 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol , no increase in UV - induced tumor formation was observed in hairless mice topically treated for 40 weeks .
No photocarcinogenicity studies were conducted with adapalene .
However , animal studies have shown an increased tumorigenic risk with the use of pharmacologically similar drugs ( e . g . , retinoids ) when exposed to UV irradiation in the laboratory or sunlight .
Although the significance of these findings to humans is not clear , patients should be advised to avoid or minimize exposure to either sunlight or artificial irradiation sources .
Adapalene did not exhibit mutagenic or genotoxic effects in vitro ( Ames test , Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , mouse lymphoma TK assay ) or in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
Bacterial mutagenicity assays ( Ames test ) with benzoyl peroxide has provided mixed results , mutagenic potential was observed in a few but not in a majority of investigations .
Benzoyl peroxide has been shown to produce single - strand DNA breaks in human bronchial epithelial and mouse epidermal cells , it has caused DNA - protein cross - links in the human cells , and has also induced a dose - dependent increase in sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
In rat oral studies , 20 mg adapalene / kg / day ( 120 mg / m 2 / day ; 98 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 / day comparison ) did not affect the reproductive performance and fertility of F 0 males and females , or growth , development and reproductive function of F 1 offspring .
No fertility studies were conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide applied once daily for the treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in two 12 week , multicenter , controlled clinical studies of similar design , comparing adapalene and benzoyl peroxide to the vehicle in acne subjects .
Treatment response was defined as the percent of subjects who had a two grade improvement and rated ‘ Clear ’ and ‘ Almost Clear ’ at Week 12 based on the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) and mean absolute change from baseline at Week 12 in both inflammatory and non - inflammatory lesion counts .
An IGA score of ‘ Clear ’ corresponded to residual hyperpigmentation and erythema may be present .
An IGA score of ‘ Almost Clear ’ corresponded to a few scattered comedones and a few small papules .
In Study 1 , 517 subjects were randomized to adapalene and benzoyl peroxide , adapalene 0 . 1 % in vehicle , benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % in vehicle .
The median age of these 517 subjects was 15 years old and 60 % were males .
At baseline , subjects had between 20 to 50 inflammatory lesions and 30 to 100 non - inflammatory lesions .
The majority of subjects had a baseline IGA score of ‘ Moderate ’ which corresponded to more than half of the face is involved , many comedones , papules and pustules .
The efficacy results at week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
In Study 2 , 1668 subjects were randomized to adapalene and benzoyl peroxide , adapalene 0 . 1 % in vehicle , benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % in vehicle .
The median age of subjects was 16 years old and 49 % were males .
At baseline , subjects had between 20 to 50 inflammatory lesions and 30 to 100 non - inflammatory lesions as well as an Investigator Global Assessment score of ‘ Moderate ’ .
The efficacy results at week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
In study 3 , 285 pediatric subjects 9 to 11 years of age were randomized to adapalene and benzoyl peroxide or vehicle .
The median age of subjects was 11 years and 24 % were males .
At baseline , subjects had a minimum of 20 but not more than 100 total lesions ( inflammatory and / or non - inflammatory ) with an Investigator Global Assessment score of ‘ Moderate ’ .
The efficacy results at week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Clinical Efficacy of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % at Week 12 Study 1 Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel ( N = 149 ) Adapalene 0 . 1 % in Vehicle gel ( N = 148 ) Benzoyl Peroxide 2 . 5 % in Vehicle gel ( N = 149 ) Vehicle Gel ( N = 71 ) IGA : Two Grade Improvement and Clear or Almost Clear 32 ( 21 . 5 % ) 18 ( 12 . 2 % ) 18 ( 12 . 1 % ) 4 ( 5 . 6 % ) Inflammatory Lesions : Mean Absolute ( Percent ) Change 16 . 0 ( 52 . 4 % ) 11 . 4 ( 39 . 9 % ) 10 . 5 ( 35 . 8 % ) 9 . 5 ( 31 . 8 % ) Non - inflammatory Lesions : Mean Absolute ( Percent ) Change 23 . 4 ( 45 . 9 % ) 15 . 2 ( 29 . 6 % ) 13 . 7 ( 32 . 2 % ) 13 . 2 ( 27 . 8 % ) Study 2 Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel ( N = 415 ) Adapalene 0 . 1 % in Vehicle gel ( N = 420 ) Benzoyl Peroxide 2 . 5 % in Vehicle gel ( N = 415 ) Vehicle Gel ( N = 418 ) IGA : Two Grade Improvement and Clear or Almost Clear 125 ( 30 . 1 % ) 83 ( 19 . 8 % ) 92 ( 22 . 2 % ) 47 ( 11 . 3 % ) Inflammatory Lesions : Mean Absolute ( Percent ) Change 15 . 4 ( 53 . 4 % ) 12 . 3 ( 41 . 7 % ) 13 . 7 ( 47 . 6 % ) 8 . 7 ( 30 . 2 % ) Non - inflammatory Lesions : Mean Absolute ( Percent ) Change 24 . 6 ( 48 . 1 % ) 21 . 0 ( 40 . 8 % ) 19 . 2 ( 37 . 2 % ) 11 . 3 ( 23 . 2 % ) In both Studies 1 and 2 the treatment effect was smaller in subjects with a small number of baseline lesions than in subjects with a large number of baseline lesions .
Study 3 Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide N = 142 Vehicle N = 143 IGA : Two Grade Improvement and Clear or Almost Clear 67 ( 47 . 2 % ) 22 ( 15 . 4 % ) Inflammatory Lesions : Mean Absolute ( Percent ) Change 7 . 4 ( 36 . 0 % ) 0 . 7 ( - 13 . 2 % ) * Non - inflammatory Lesions : Mean Absolute ( Percent ) Change 20 . 2 ( 54 . 7 % ) 2 . 9 ( 2 . 3 % ) * That is , a mean percent increase of 13 . 2 % 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % is supplied in the following size : 14 count use - of - use 1 . 2 g gel pads NDC 82429 - 012 - 01 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and keep away from heat .
Keep tube tightly closed .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for Patients • Advise patients to cleanse the area to be treated with a mild or soapless cleanser ; pat dry .
Apply adapalene and benzoyl peroxide as a pad , avoiding the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
• Advise patients not to use more than the recommended amount and not to apply more than once daily as this will not produce faster results but may increase irritation .
• Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging or burning .
• Advise patients to minimize exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps .
Recommend the use of sunscreen products and protective apparel , ( e . g . , hat ) when exposure cannot be avoided .
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide pad may bleach hair and colored fabric .
PATIENT INFORMATION Adapalene ( a dap ' a leen ) and Benzoyl Peroxide ( ben ' zoe il per ox ' ide ) Gel Pad 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % Rx Only Important : For use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Read this Patient Information leaflet about adapalene and benzoyl peroxide before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your treatment or your medical condition .
If you have any questions about adapalene and benzoyl peroxide , talk with your doctor or pharmacist .
What is adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ?
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide is a prescription medicine for skin use only ( topical ) used to treat acne vulgaris in people 9 years of age and older .
Acne vulgaris is a condition in which the skin has blackheads , whiteheads and pimples .
It is not known if adapalene and benzoyl peroxide is safe and effective in children younger than 9 years old .
What should I tell my doctor before using adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad ?
Before you use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad , tell your doctor if you : • have other skin problems , including cuts or sunburns • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not know if adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if adapalene and benzoyl peroxide passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you use any other medicine for acne .
Using adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad with topical medicines that contain sulfur , resorcinol or salicylic acid may cause skin irritation .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad ?
• Use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad is for skin use only .
Do not use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
• Apply adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad 1 time a day .
• Do not use more adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad than you need to cover the treatment area .
Using too much adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad or using it more than 1 time a day may increase your chance of skin irritation .
Applying adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad : • Wash the area where the pad will be applied with a mild cleanser and pat dry .
• Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad comes in a 14 count unit of use 1 . 2 g gel pads .
If you have been prescribed the : Pad : Remove the pad from the foil before using .
Adapalene pad should be applied once a day .
What should I avoid while using adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad ?
• You should avoid spending time in sunlight or artificial sunlight , such as tanning beds or sunlamps .
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide pad can make your skin sensitive to sun and the light from tanning beds and sunlamps .
You should wear sunscreen and wear a hat , and clothes that cover the areas treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide pad if you have to be in sunlight .
• You should avoid weather extremes such as wind and cold as this may cause irritation to your skin .
• You should avoid applying adapalene and benzoyl peroxide pad to cuts , abrasions and sunburned skin .
• You should avoid skin products that may dry or irritate your skin such as harsh soaps , astringents , cosmetics that have strong skin drying effects and products containing high levels of alcohol .
You should avoid the use of “ waxing ” as a hair removal method on skin treated with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
• Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad may bleach your clothes or hair .
Allow adapalene and benzoyl peroxide pad to dry completely before dressing to prevent bleaching of your clothes .
What are the possible side effects of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad ?
Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad may cause serious side effects including : • Local skin reactions .
Local skin reactions are most likely to happen during the first 4 weeks of treatment and usually lessen with continued use of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
Signs and symptoms of local skin reaction include : • Redness • Dryness • Swelling • Scaling • Stinging or burning Tell your doctor right away if these side effects continue for longer than 4 weeks or get worse , you may have to stop using adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Gabar Health Sciences Corp at 1 - 470 - 737 - 9424 How should I store adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad ?
• Store adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad at room temperature , 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) • Keep adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad inside container and out of light and away from heat .
Keep adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel pad ?
Active ingredient : adapalene , USP and benzoyl peroxide , USP Inactive ingredients : carbomer 980 , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , poloxamer 182 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monooleate and xanthan gum .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured and distributed by : Gabar Health Sciences Corp , Atlanta , GA 30354 USA Revised - August 2022 20203912 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Gabar Health Sciences Corp Rx Only NDC 82429 - 012 - 01 Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel Pad 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use Net Wt .
1 . 2 g gel pad [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
