Active ingredient ( in each patch ) • Step 1 : Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours • Step 2 : Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours • Step 3 : Nicotine , 7 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings • If you are pregnant or breast feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask doctor before use if you have • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure • an allergy to adhesive tape or have skin problems , because you are more likely to get rashes • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted When using this product • if you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances , remove the patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or if your skin swells , or you get a rash • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose , such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness , or rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
Directions • If you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • before using this product , read the enclosed self - help guide for complete directions and other information • begin using the patch on your quit day • if you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use the following schedule below [ MULTIMEDIA ] • if you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 for 6 weeks , then Step 3 for 2 weeks • apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean , and hairless • remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds • wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch • the used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • if you have vivid dreams , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • do not wear more than one patch at a time • do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information • store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acrylate adhesive , polyester , silicone adhesive Questions or comments ?
• 1 - 844 - 562 - 7963 TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : • You must be motivated to quit .
• Use one patch daily according to directions .
• It is important to complete treatment .
• If you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
• Use patch with a behavioral support program such as the one described in the enclosed booklet .
Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline Industries , LP Three Lakes Drive Northfield , IL 60093 USA Manufactured by : Apotex Corp .
2400 N Commerce Pkwy Weston , FL 33326 Made in USA of Foreign and Domestic Materials www . medline . com 1 - 800 - MEDLINE ( 633 - 5463 ) REF : OTCM019285 ; OTCM019189 ; OTCM019389 V3 RI22AOE Package Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
