Disinfectant type Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Major ingredient and concentration This product is a disinfectant gel with ethanol as the main active ingredient , and the ethanol content is 75 % ± 7 . 5 % v / v .
Add skin care ingredients such as moisturizers and moisturizers .
Germicidal spectrum Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer .
It can kill the microorganisms such as enter ic pathogenic bacteria , pyogenic coccus , pathogenic yeast and hospital infect ion common germs .
Application soope 1 .
Sanitary hand disinfeotion : suitable for hand disinfeotion of medical staff in out patient 。 linios , wards , emergency room .
intensive care units ， hemodialysis rooms , and endoscopy rooms of medical and health institutions .
It is suitable for quick disinfeotion of hands of persons who need to perform hand hygiene .
2 .
Surgical hand disinfection : suitable for preoperative surgical hand disinfection in the operating room of medical and health inst itutions .
Cautions For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Usage Sanitary hand disinfection : Take an appropriate amount of disinfectant gel ( 2 - 3 ml ) on the palm , rub your hands together to make it evenly spread on each part ( ensure that the liquid covers the entire surface ) , Follow the WS / T313 " Specification of hand hygiene for health care workers " Appendix A , the method of hand washing for medical workers , rub and disinfect for 1 minute .
Surgical hand disinfection ： 1 .
Wash hands and forearms , rinse thoroughly and dry .
2 .
Take an appropriate amount of disinfectant gel ( 5 - 10 ml ) , follow the WS / T313 " Specification of hand hygiene for health care workers " Appendix C Surgical no - wash disinfection method , rub your hands and forearms to the lower third of the upper arms for 3 minutes . Wear sterile gloves after drying .
Other information Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer , triethanolamine , glycerol , purified water .
package package label is attached [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
