1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) is indicated for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis or other conditions .
ZENPEP ® is a combination of porcine - derived lipases , proteases , and amylases indicated for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis , or other conditions ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage ZENPEP is not interchangeable with any other pancrelipase product .
Infants ( up to 12 months ) • Infants may be given 3 , 000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or per breast - feeding .
( 2 . 1 ) • Do not mix ZENPEP capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk prior to administration .
( 2 . 2 ) Children Older than 12 Months and Younger than 4 Years • Enzyme dosing should begin with 1 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
( 2 . 1 ) Children 4 Years and Older and Adults • Enzyme dosing should begin with 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
( 2 . 1 ) Limitations on Dosing • Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines ( 2 . 1 ) Administration • ZENPEP should be swallowed whole .
For infants or patients unable to swallow intact capsules , the contents may be sprinkled on soft acidic food , e . g . , applesauce .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage ZENPEP is not interchangeable with other pancrelipase products .
ZENPEP is orally administered .
Therapy should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose and gradually increased .
The dosage of ZENPEP should be individualized based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present , and the fat content of the diet ( see Limitations on Dosing below ) .
Dosage recommendations for pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy were published following the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences . 1 , 2 , 3 ZENPEP should be administered in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the Conferences provided in the following paragraphs , with one exception .
The Conferences recommend doses of 2 , 000 to 4 , 000 lipase units in infants up to 12 months .
ZENPEP is available in a 3 , 000 lipase unit capsule .
The recommended dose of ZENPEP in infants up to 12 months is 3 , 000 lipase units .
Patients may be dosed on a fat ingestion - based or actual body weight - based dosing scheme .
Infants ( up to 12 months ) Infants may be given 3 , 000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or breast - feeding .
Do not mix ZENPEP capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk prior to administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Children Older than 12 Months and Younger than 4 Years Enzyme dosing should begin with 1 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal for children less than age 4 years to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
Children 4 Years and Older and Adults Enzyme dosing should begin with 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal for those older than age 4 years to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
Usually , half of the prescribed ZENPEP dose for an individualized full meal should be given with each snack .
The total daily dose should reflect approximately three meals plus two or three snacks per day .
Enzyme doses expressed as lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be decreased in older patients because they weigh more but tend to ingest less fat per kilogram of body weight .
Limitations on Dosing Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines . 1 , 2 , 3 If symptoms and signs of steatorrhea persist , the dosage may be increased by a healthcare professional .
Patients should be instructed not to increase the dosage on their own .
There is great inter - individual variation in response to enzymes ; thus , a range of doses is recommended .
Changes in dosage may require an adjustment period of several days .
If doses are to exceed 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal , further investigation is warranted .
Doses greater than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption .
Doses greater than 6000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic strictures , indicative of fibrosing colonopathy , in children with cystic fibrosis less than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients currently receiving higher doses than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range .
2 . 2 Administration ZENPEP should always be taken as prescribed by a healthcare professional .
Infants ( up to 12 months ) ZENPEP should be administered to infants immediately prior to each feeding , using a dosage of 3 , 000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or per breast - feeding .
Contents of the capsule may be administered with a small amount of applesauce , or other acidic food with a pH of 4 . 5 or less ( e . g . , commercially available preparations of bananas , or pears ) .
Contents of the capsule may also be administered directly to the mouth .
Administration should be followed by breast milk or formula .
Contents of the capsule should not be mixed directly into formula or breast milk as this may diminish efficacy .
Care should be taken to ensure that ZENPEP is not crushed or chewed or retained in the mouth , to avoid irritation of the oral mucosa .
Children and Adults ZENPEP should be taken during meals or snacks , with sufficient fluid .
ZENPEP capsules and capsule contents should not be crushed or chewed .
Capsules should be swallowed whole .
For patients who are unable to swallow intact capsules , the capsules may be carefully opened and the contents sprinkled on small amounts of acidic soft food of pH 4 . 5 or less ( e . g . , commercially available preparations of bananas , pears and applesauce ) .
The ZENPEP - soft food mixture should be swallowed immediately without crushing or chewing , and followed with water or juice to ensure complete ingestion .
Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The active ingredient in ZENPEP evaluated in clinical trials is lipase .
ZENPEP is dosed by lipase units .
ZENPEP is available in 6 color coded capsule strengths .
Other active ingredients include protease and amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule strength contains the specified amounts of lipase , protease , and amylase .
Capsules of all strengths have a blue radial print on the capsule body and are colored as follows : • 3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 10 , 000 USP units of protease ; 16 , 000 USP units of amylase capsules have a white opaque cap and white opaque body , red imprint with “ EURAND 3 ” • 5 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 17 , 000 USP units of protease ; 27 , 000 USP units of amylase capsules have a white opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 5 ” • 10 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 34 , 000 USP units of protease ; 55 , 000 USP units of amylase capsules have a yellow opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 10 ” • 15 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 51 , 000 USP units of protease ; 82 , 000 USP units of amylase capsules have a red opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 15 ” • 20 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 68 , 000 USP units of protease ; 109 , 000 USP units of amylase capsules have a green opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 20 ” • 25 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 85 , 000 USP units of protease ; 136 , 000 USP units of amylase capsules have a blue opaque cap and white opaque body , blue imprint with “ EURAND 25 ” • Capsules : 3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 10 , 000 USP units of protease ; 16 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a white opaque cap and body , printed with “ EURAND 3 ” ( 3 ) • Capsules : 5 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 17 , 000 USP units of protease ; 27 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a white opaque cap and body , printed with “ EURAND 5 ” ( 3 ) • Capsules : 10 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 34 , 000 USP units of protease ; 55 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a yellow opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 10 ” ( 3 ) • Capsules : 15 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 51 , 000 USP units of protease ; 82 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a red opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 15 ” ( 3 ) • Capsules : 20 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 68 , 000 USP units of protease ; 109 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a green opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 20 ” ( 3 ) • Capsules : 25 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 85 , 000 USP units of protease ; 136 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a blue opaque cap and white opaque body , printed with “ EURAND 25 " ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fibrosing colonopathy is associated with high - dose use of pancreatic enzyme replacement .
Exercise caution when doses of ZENPEP exceed 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • To avoid irritation of oral mucosa , do not chew ZENPEP or retain in the mouth .
( 5 . 2 ) • Exercise caution when prescribing ZENPEP to patients with gout , renal impairment , or hyperuricemia .
( 5 . 3 ) • There is theoretical risk of viral transmission with all pancreatic enzyme products including ZENPEP .
( 5 . 4 ) • Exercise caution when administering pancrelipase to a patient with a known allergy to proteins of porcine origin .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Fibrosing Colonopathy Fibrosing colonopathy has been reported following treatment with different pancreatic enzyme products .
Fibrosing colonopathy is a rare serious adverse reaction initially described in association with high - dose pancreatic enzyme use , usually with use over a prolonged period of time and most commonly reported in pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis .
The underlying mechanism of fibrosing colonopathy remains unknown .
Doses of pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic strictures in children less than 12 years of age . 1 Patients with fibrosing colonopathy should be closely monitored because some patients may be at risk of progressing to stricture formation .
It is uncertain whether regression of fibrosing colonopathy occurs .
It is generally recommended , unless clinically indicated , that enzyme doses should be less than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Doses greater than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption .
Patients receiving higher doses than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range .
5 . 2 Potential for Irritation to Oral Mucosa Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth .
ZENPEP should not be crushed or chewed or mixed in foods having a pH greater than 4 . 5 .
These actions can disrupt the protective enteric coating resulting in early release of enzymes , irritation of oral mucosa , and / or loss or enzyme activity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
For patients who are unable to swallow intact capsules , the capsules may be carefully opened and the contents added to a small amount of acidic soft food with a pH of 4 . 5 or less , such as applesauce .
The ZENPEP - soft food mixture should be swallowed immediately and followed with water or juice to ensure complete ingestion .
5 . 3 Potential for Risk of Hyperuricemia Caution should be exercised when prescribing ZENPEP to patients with gout , renal impairment , or hyperuricemia .
Porcine - derived pancreatic enzyme products contain purines that may increase blood uric acid levels .
5 . 4 Potential Viral Exposure from the Product Source ZENPEP is sourced from pancreatic tissue from swine used for food consumption .
Although the risk that ZENPEP will transmit an infectious agent to humans has been reduced by testing for certain viruses during manufacturing and by inactivating certain viruses during manufacturing , there is a theoretical risk for transmission of viral disease , including diseases caused by novel or unidentified viruses .
Thus , the presence of porcine viruses that might infect humans cannot be definitely excluded .
However , no cases of transmission of an infectious illness associated with the use of porcine pancreatic extracts have been reported .
5 . 5 Allergic Reactions Caution should be exercised when administering pancrelipase to a patient with a known allergy to proteins of porcine origin .
Rarely , severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , asthma , hives , and pruritus , have been reported with other pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) .
The risks and benefits of continued ZENPEP treatment in patients with severe allergy should be taken into consideration with the overall clinical needs of the patient .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions reported with different pancreatic enzyme products of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) include fibrosing colonopathy , hyperuricemia and allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions , ( 5 ) ] • The most common adverse events ( ≥ 6 % of patients treated with ZENPEP ) are abdominal pain , flatulence , headache , cough , decreased weight , early satiety , and contusion .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aptalis Pharma at 1 - 888 - 936 - 7371 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The short - term safety of ZENPEP was assessed in two clinical trials conducted in 53 patients , ages 1 to 23 years , with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( EPI ) due to CF . In both studies , ZENPEP was administered in doses of approximately 5 , 000 lipase units per kilogram per day , for lengths of treatment ranging from 19 to 42 days .
The population was nearly evenly distributed in gender , and approximately 96 % of patients were Caucasian .
Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , 2 - treatment , crossover study of 34 patients , ages 7 to 23 years , with EPI due to CF . In this study , patients were randomized to receive ZENPEP at individually titrated doses ( not to exceed 2 , 500 lipase units per kilogram per meal ) or matching placebo for 6 to 7 days of treatment , followed by crossover to the alternate treatment for an additional 6 to 7 days .
The mean exposure to ZENPEP during this study , including titration period and open label transition , was 30 days .
The incidence of adverse events ( regardless of causality ) was similar during double blind ZENPEP treatment ( 56 % ) and placebo treatment ( 50 % ) .
The most common adverse events reported during the study were gastrointestinal complaints , which were reported more commonly during placebo treatment ( 41 % ) than during ZENPEP treatment ( 32 % ) , and headache , which was reported more commonly during ZENPEP treatment ( 15 % ) than during placebo treatment ( 0 ) .
The type and incidence of adverse events were similar in children ( 7 - 11 years ) , adolescents ( 12 - 16 years ) , and adults ( greater than 18 years ) .
Because clinical trials are conducted under controlled conditions , the observed adverse event rates may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Table 1 enumerates treatment - emergent adverse events that occurred in at least 2 patients ( greater than or equal to 6 % ) treated with either ZENPEP or placebo in Study 1 .
Adverse events were classified by Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities ( MedDRA ) terminology .
Table 1 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in at least 2 Patients ( greater than or equal to 6 % ) During Treatment Period and Crossover Treatment Period of the Placebo - Controlled , Crossover Clinical Study of ZENPEP ( Study 1 ) MedDRA Primary System Organ Class Preferred Term ZENPEP ( N = 34 ) % Placebo ( N = 32 ) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal pain 6 ( 18 % ) 9 ( 28 % ) Flatulence 2 ( 6 % ) 3 ( 9 % ) Nervous System Disorders Headache 5 ( 15 % ) 0 Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications Contusion 2 ( 6 % ) 0 Investigations Weight decreased 2 ( 6 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 2 ( 6 % ) 0 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Early Satiety 2 ( 6 % ) 0 Study 2 was an open - label , uncontrolled study of 19 patients , ages 1 to 6 years , with EPI due to CF . After a 4 - 14 days screening period on the current PEP , patients in Study 2 received ZENPEP at individually titrated doses ranging between 2 , 300 and 10 , 000 lipase units per kg body weight per day , with a mean of approximately 5000 lipase units per kg body weight per day ( not to exceed 2 , 500 lipase units per kilogram per meal ) for 14 days .
There was no comparator treatment , and adverse events were collected on patient diary entries and at each study visit .
The most commonly reported adverse events were gastrointestinal , including abdominal pain and steatorrhea , and were similar in type and frequency to those reported in the double - blind , placebo - controlled trial ( Study 1 ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Postmarketing data for ZENPEP have been available since 2009 .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Zenpep .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most commonly reported adverse events are gastrointestinal disorders ( including abdominal distension , abdominal pain , diarrhea , flatulence , constipation and nausea ) and skin disorders ( including pruritus , urticaria , and rash ) .
In patients at risk for abnormal blood glucose levels glycemic control may be affected by administration of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy .
Consideration should be given to additional glucose monitoring in these patients .
Delayed - and immediate - release pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) have been used for the treatment of patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis and other conditions , such as chronic pancreatitis .
The long - term safety profile of these products has been described in the medical literature .
The most serious adverse events include fibrosing colonopathy , distal intestinal obstruction syndrome ( DIOS ) , recurrence of pre - existing carcinoma , and severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , asthma , hives , and pruritus .
In general , pancreatic enzyme products have a well defined and favorable risk - benefit profile in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interactions have been identified .
No formal interaction studies have been conducted .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Patients : • The safety and effectiveness of ZENPEP were assessed in pediatric patients , ages 1 to 17 years .
( 8 . 4 ) • The safety and efficacy of pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of pancrelipase in pediatric patients have been described in the medical literature and through clinical experience .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pancrelipase .
It is also not known whether pancrelipase can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
ZENPEP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
The risk and benefit of pancrelipase should be considered in the context of the need to provide adequate nutritional support to a pregnant woman with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency .
Adequate caloric intake during pregnancy is important for normal maternal weight gain and fetal growth .
Reduced maternal weight gain and malnutrition can be associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ZENPEP is administered to a nursing woman .
The risk and benefit of pancrelipase should be considered in the context of the need to provide adequate nutritional support to a nursing mother with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The short - term safety and effectiveness of ZENPEP were assessed in 2 clinical studies in pediatric patients , ages 1 to 17 years , with EPI due to CF . Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover study in 34 patients 26 of whom were children , including 8 children aged 7 to 11 years , and 18 adolescents aged 12 to 17 patients .
The safety and efficacy in pediatric patients in this study were similar to adult patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Study 2 was an open - label , single arm study in 19 patients , ages 1 to 6 years , with EPI due to CF . When patient regimen was switched from their usual PEP regimen to ZENPEP at similar doses , patients showed similar control of their clinical symptoms .
The safety and efficacy of pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of pancrelipase consisting of the same active ingredient ( lipases , proteases , and amylases ) for treatment of children with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis has been described in the medical literature and through clinical experience .
Dosing of pediatric patients should be in accordance with recommended guidance from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Doses of other pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with fibrosing colonopathy and colonic strictures in children less than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ZENPEP did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE In Study 1 , a 10 year - old patient was administered a dose of 10 , 856 lipase units per kg body weight of ZENPEP for a period of one day .
The patient did not experience any adverse events as a result of the dose increase , nor did this patient experience any adverse events during a 44 - day follow - up period .
No abnormalities from analyses of safety labs ( chemistry , hematology , urinalysis or uric acid ) were noted .
Chronic high doses of pancreatic enzyme products have been associated with fibrosing colonopathy and colonic strictures [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
High doses of pancreatic enzyme products have been associated with hyperuricosuria and hyperuricemia , and should be used with caution in patients with a history of hyperuricemia , gout , or renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION ZENPEP is a pancreatic enzyme preparation consisting of pancrelipase , an extract derived from porcine pancreatic glands .
Pancrelipase contains multiple enzyme classes , including porcine derived lipases , proteases , and amylases .
Pancrelipase is a cream - colored powder .
It is miscible in water and practically insoluble or insoluble in alcohol and ether .
Each capsule for oral administration contains enteric - coated beads ( 1 . 8 - 1 . 9 mm for 3 , 000 and 5 , 000 USP units of lipase , 2 . 2 - 2 . 5 mm for 10 , 000 , 15 , 000 , 20 , 000 and 25 , 000 USP units of lipase ) .
The active ingredient evaluated in clinical trials is lipase .
ZENPEP is dosed by lipase units .
Other active ingredients include protease and amylase .
Inactive ingredients in ZENPEP include colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hydrogenated castor oil , hypromellose phthalate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , and triethyl citrate and are contained in hypromellose capsules .
The imprinting red ink on the 3 , 000 capsules strength contains , antifoam DC 1510 , industrial methylated spirit , iron oxide red C . I . 77491 - E172 , n - butyl alcohol , shellac and soya lecithin .
3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 10 , 000 USP units of protease ; 16 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a white opaque cap and a white opaque body with imprint “ EURAND 3 ” .
The shells contain carnauba wax or talc , carrageenan , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium oxide , and water .
The imprinting blue ink on the capsules strengths 5 , 000 , 10 , 000 , 15 , 000 , 20 , 000 and 25 , 000 contains dehydrated alcohol , FD & C Blue # 2 aluminum lake C . I . 73015 - E132 , isopropyl alcohol , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
5 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 17 , 000 USP units of protease ; 27 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a white opaque cap and a white opaque body with imprint “ EURAND 5 ” .
The shells contain carnauba wax or talc , carrageenan , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium oxide , and water .
10 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 34 , 000 USP units of protease ; 55 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a yellow opaque cap and a white opaque body with imprint “ EURAND 10 ” .
The shells contain carnauba wax or talc , carrageenan , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium oxide , water and yellow ferric oxide .
15 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 51 , 000 USP units of protease ; 82 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a red opaque cap and a white opaque body with imprint “ EURAND 15 ” .
The shells contain carnauba wax or talc , carrageenan , hypromellose , potassium chloride , red ferric oxide , titanium oxide , and water .
20 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 68 , 000 USP units of protease ; 109 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a green opaque cap and a white opaque body with imprint “ EURAND 20 ” .
The shells contain carnauba wax or talc , carrageenan , FD & C Blue # 2 , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium oxide , water , and yellow ferric oxide .
25 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 85 , 000 USP units of protease ; 136 , 000 USP units of amylase .
Capsules have a blue opaque cap and a white opaque body with imprint “ EURAND 25 ” .
The shells contain carnauba wax or talc , carrageenan , FD & C Blue # 2 , hypromellose , potassium chloride , titanium oxide , and water .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The pancreatic enzymes in ZENPEP catalyze the hydrolysis of fats to monoglycerides , glycerol , and free fatty acids , protein into peptides and amino acids , and starch into dextrins and short chain sugars such as maltose and maltriose in the duodenum and proximal small intestine , thereby acting like digestive enzymes physiologically secreted by the pancreas .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pancreatic enzymes in ZENPEP are enteric - coated to minimize destruction or inactivation in gastric acid .
ZENPEP is designed to release most of the enzymes in vivo at pH greater than 5 . 5 .
Pancreatic enzymes are not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract in any appreciable amount .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , genetic toxicology , and animal fertility studies have not been performed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The short - term safety and efficacy of ZENPEP were evaluated in 2 studies conducted in 53 patients , ages 1 to 23 years , with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( EPI ) associated with cystic fibrosis ( CF ) .
Study 1 , was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover study of 34 patients , ages 7 to 23 years , with EPI due to CF . The final analysis population was limited to 32 patients , who completed both double - blind treatment periods , and were included in the efficacy analysis population .
Patients were randomized to receive ZENPEP or matching placebo for 6 to 7 days of treatment , followed by crossover to the alternate treatment for an additional 6 to 7 days .
The mean dose during the controlled treatment periods ranged from a mean dose of 3 , 900 lipase units per kilogram per day to 5 , 700 lipase units per kilogram per day .
All patients consumed a high - fat diet ( greater than or equal to 100 grams of fat per day ) during the treatment period .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean difference in the coefficient of fat absorption ( CFA ) between ZENPEP and placebo treatment .
The CFA was determined by a 72 - hour stool collection during both treatments , when both fat excretion and fat ingestion were measured .
Each patient ’ s CFA during placebo treatment was used as their no - treatment CFA value .
Mean CFA was 88 % with ZENPEP treatment compared to 63 % with placebo treatment .
The mean difference in CFA was 26 percentage points in favor of ZENPEP treatment with 95 % Confidence Interval of ( 19 , 32 ) and p ≤ 0 . 001 .
Subgroup analyses of the CFA results showed that mean change in CFA was greater in patients with lower no - treatment ( placebo ) CFA values than in patients with higher no - treatment ( placebo ) CFA values .
There were similar responses to ZENPEP by age and gender .
Study 2 , was an open - label , uncontrolled study of 19 patients , ages 1 to 6 years ( mean age 4 years ) , with EPI due to CF . Approximately half of the patients were ages 1 to 3 years .
Study 2 compared a measurement of fat malabsorption , spot fecal fat testing , before ( while receiving therapy with another commercial PEP ) and after oral administration of Zenpep capsules with each meal or snack .
All patients in Study 2 were transitioned to ZENPEP from their usual PEP treatment .
After a 4 - 14 days screening period on the current PEP , patients in Study 2 received ZENPEP at individually titrated doses ranging between 2 , 300 and 10 , 000 lipase units per kg body weight per day , with a mean of approximately 5000 lipase units per kg body weight per day ( not to exceed 2 , 500 lipase units per kilogram per meal ) for 14 days .
There was no wash - out period .
Overall , patients showed similar control of fat malabsorption by spot fecal fat testing when switched to ZENPEP treatment at similar doses .
15 REFERENCES • Borowitz DS , Grand RJ , Durie PR , et al .
Use of pancreatic enzyme supplements for patients with cystic fibrosis in the context of fibrosing colonopathy .
Journal of Pediatrics .
1995 ; 127 : 681 - 684 .
• Borowitz DS , Baker RD , Stallings V . Consensus report on nutrition for pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis .
Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology Nutrition .
2002 Sep ; 35 : 246 - 259 .
• Stallings VA , Start LJ , Robinson KA , et al .
Evidence - based practice recommendations for nutrition - related management of children and adults with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency : results of a systematic review .
Journal of the American Dietetic Association .
2008 ; 108 : 832 - 839 .
• Smyth RL , Ashby D , O ’ Hea U , et al .
Fibrosing colonopathy in cystic fibrosis : results of a case - control study . 9 Lancet .
1995 ; 346 : 1247 - 1251 .
• FitzSimmons SC , Burkhart GA , Borowitz DS , et al .
High - dose pancreatic - enzyme supplements and fibrosing colonopathy in children with cystic fibrosis .
New England Journal of Medicine .
1997 ; 336 : 1283 - 1289 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 10 , 000 USP units of protease ; 16 , 000 units of amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule is available as a two piece hypromellose capsule with white opaque cap and white body with a red radial print and printed with “ EURAND 3 ” , that contains 1 . 8 - 1 . 9 mm enteric - coated beads .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of : ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 5 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 17 , 000 USP units of protease ; 27 , 000 units of amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule is available as a two piece hypromellose capsule with white opaque cap and white body with a blue radial print and printed with “ EURAND 5 ” , that contains 1 . 8 - 1 . 9 mm enteric - coated beads .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of : ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 10 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 34 , 000 units of protease ; 55 , 000 units of amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule is available as a two piece hypromellose capsule with yellow opaque cap and white body with a blue radial print and printed with “ EURAND 10 ” , that contains 2 . 2 - 2 . 5 mm enteric - coated beads .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of : • 90 capsules ( NDC 54868 - 6435 - 0 ) ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 15 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 51 , 000 units of protease ; 82 , 000 units of amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule is available as a two piece hypromellose capsule with red opaque cap and white body with a blue radial print and printed with “ EURAND 15 ” , that contains 2 . 2 - 2 . 5 mm enteric - coated beads .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of : ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 20 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 68 , 000 units of protease ; 109 , 000 units of amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule is available as a two piece hypromellose capsule with green opaque cap and white body with a blue radial print and printed with “ EURAND 20 ” , that contains 2 . 2 - 2 . 5 mm enteric - coated beads .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of : ZENPEP ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 25 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 85 , 000 units of protease ; 136 , 000 units of amylase .
Each ZENPEP capsule is available as a two piece hypromellose capsule with blue opaque cap and white body with a blue radial print and printed with “ EURAND 25 ” , that contains 2 . 2 - 2 . 5 mm enteric - coated beads .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of : Storage and Handling : Original Glass container : Avoid excessive heat .
Store at room temperature ( 68 - 77 ° F ; 20 - 25 ° C ) , brief excursions permitted to 15 - 40 ° C ( 59 - 104 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
AFTER OPENING , KEEP BOTTLE TIGHTLY CLOSED between uses to PROTECT FROM MOISTURE .
Repackaged HDPE container : Avoid excessive heat .
Store up to 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) for up to 6 months .
Brief excursions permitted to 15 - 40 ° C ( 59 - 104 ° F ) for up to 30 days .
Protect from moisture .
AFTER OPENING , KEEP BOTTLE TIGHTLY CLOSED between uses to PROTECT FROM MOISTURE .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
DO NOT CRUSH ZENPEP delayed - release capsules .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) 17 . 1 Dosing and Administration • Instruct patients and caregivers that ZENPEP should only be taken as directed by their healthcare professional .
Patients should be advised that the total daily dose should not exceed 10 , 000 lipase units / kg body weight per day unless clinically indicated .
This needs to be especially emphasized for patients eating multiple snacks and meals per day .
Patients should be informed that if a dose is missed , the next dose should be taken with the next meal or snack as directed .
Doses should not be doubled .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients and caregivers that ZENPEP should always be taken with food .
Patients should be advised that ZENPEP delayed - release capsules must not be crushed or chewed as doing so could cause early release of enzymes and / or loss of enzymatic activity .
Patients should swallow the intact capsules with adequate amounts of liquid at mealtimes .
If necessary , the capsules contents can also be sprinkled on soft acidic foods .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare professional if they are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant during treatment with ZENPEP .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) . ]
• Instruct patients and caregivers to notify the healthcare professional if the patient has a history of abnormal glucose levels before initiating treatment with ZENPEP .
[ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 2 Fibrosing Colonopathy Advise patients and caregivers to follow dosing instructions carefully , as doses of pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( 10 , 000 lipase units / kg body weight / day ) have been associated with colonic strictures in children below the age of 12 years .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Allergic Reactions Advise patients and caregivers to contact their healthcare professional immediately if allergic reactions to ZENPEP develop .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 4 Pregnancy and Breast Feeding • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare professional if they are pregnant or thinking of becoming pregnant during treatment with ZENPEP [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare professional if they are breast feeding or thinking of breast feeding during treatment with ZENPEP [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
ZENPEP ® is subject of US Patent No . 7 , 658 , 918 .
Manufactured by : Aptalis Pharma S . r . l . Via Martin Luther King , 13 20060 , Pessano con Bornago Milan , Italy Marketed by : Aptalis Pharma US , Inc .
100 Somerset Corporate Boulevard Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA For further information , please call Aptalis Pharma toll - free at 1 - 888 - 936 - 7371 .
© 2013 Aptalis Pharma US , Inc .
PKG - 1028 3 / 18 rev . 6 Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 MEDICATION GUIDE ZENPEP ® ( ZEN - pep ) ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules Read this Medication Guide before you start taking ZENPEP and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about ZENPEP ?
• ZENPEP may increase your chance of having a rare bowel disorder called fibrosing colonopathy .
This condition is serious and may require surgery .
The risk of having this condition may be reduced by following the dosing instructions that your doctor gave you .
Call your doctor right away if you have any unusual or severe : • Stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • Bloating • Trouble passing stool ( having bowel movements ) • Nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea Take ZENPEP exactly as prescribed .
Do not take more or less ZENPEP than directed by your doctor .
What is ZENPEP ?
ZENPEP is a prescription medicine for people who cannot digest food normally because their pancreas does not make enough enzymes .
ZENPEP may help your body use fats , proteins and sugars from food .
ZENPEP contains a mixture of digestive enzymes including lipases , proteases , and amylases from pig pancreas .
ZENPEP is safe and effective in children .
What should I tell my doctor before taking ZENPEP ?
Before taking ZENPEP , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you • are allergic to pork ( pig ) products .
• have a history of blockage of your intestines , or scarring or thickening of your bowel wall ( fibrosing colonopathy ) • have gout , kidney disease , or high blood uric acid ( hyperuricemia ) • have trouble swallowing capsules • have any other medical condition • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ZENPEP will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if ZENPEP passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take ZENPEP or breastfeed .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and dietary or herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take ZENPEP ?
Take ZENPEP exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Do not take more capsules in a day than the number your doctor tells you ( total daily dose ) .
• Always take ZENPEP with a meal or snack .
If you eat a lot of meals or snacks in a day , be careful not to go over your total daily dose .
• Do not crush or chew the ZENPEP capsules or its contents , and do not hold the capsule or contents in your mouth .
Crushing , chewing or holding the ZENPEP Capsules in your mouth may cause irritation in your mouth or change the way ZENPEP works in your body Giving ZENPEP to children and adults • Swallow ZENPEP capsules whole and take them with enough liquid to swallow them right away .
• If you have trouble swallowing capsules , open the capsules and sprinkle the beads on a small amount of acidic food such as applesauce , pureed bananas or pears .
Ask your doctor about other foods you can mix with ZENPEP .
• If you sprinkle ZENPEP on food , swallow it right after you mix it .
Do not store ZENPEP that is mixed with food .
• Swallow the ZENPEP and food mixture right away followed with water or juice .
Make sure the medicine is swallowed completely .
• If you forget to take ZENPEP , call your doctor or wait until your next meal and take your usual number of capsules .
Do not make up for missed doses .
Take your next dose at the usual time .
Giving ZENPEP to infants ( children up to 12 months ) : • Give ZENPEP right before each feeding of formula or breast milk .
• Do not mix ZENPEP capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk .
• Open the capsule and sprinkle the contents on a small amount of applesauce , pureed bananas or pears .
These foods should be the kind found in baby food jars that you buy at the store , or other food recommended by your doctor .
You may also sprinkle the contents directly into your child ’ s mouth .
• If you sprinkle the ZENPEP on food , give the ZENPEP and food mixture to your child right away .
• Give your child enough liquid to completely swallow the ZENPEP contents or the ZENPEP and food mixture .
• Look in your child ’ s mouth to make sure that all of the medicine has been swallowed .
What are possible side effects of ZENPEP ?
ZENPEP may cause serious side effects , including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about ZENPEP ? ”
• Worsening of swollen , painful joints ( gout ) caused by an increase in your blood uric acid levels • Allergic reactions including trouble with breathing , skin rashes , or swollen lips .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of these symptoms .
The most common side effects of ZENPEP include • Pain in your belly • Gas • Headache Other Possible Side Effects ZENPEP and other pancreatic enzyme products are made from the pancreas of pigs , the same pigs people eat as pork .
These pigs may carry viruses .
Although it has never been reported , it may be possible for a person to get a viral infection from taking pancreatic enzyme products that come from pigs .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of ZENPEP .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Aptalis Pharma at 1 - 888 - 936 - 7371 .
How do I store ZENPEP ?
• Store ZENPEP at room temperature ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ; 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Avoid heat .
• After opening the bottle , keep it closed tightly between doses • DO NOT eat or throw away the packet ( desiccant ) in your medicine bottle .
This packet will protect your medicine from moisture .
• Store ZENPEP in a dry place .
Keep ZENPEP and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about ZENPEP Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ZENPEP for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ZENPEP to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about ZENPEP .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about ZENPEP that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . ZENPEP . com or call 1 - 888 - ZENPEP1 ( 1 - 888 - 936 - 7371 ) .
What are the ingredients in ZENPEP ?
Active ingredient : lipase , protease , amylase Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hydrogenated castor oil , hypromellose phthalate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , and triethyl citrate in hypromellose capsules .
The red radial imprinting on the 3 , 000 capsule strength contains , antifoam DC 1510 , industrial methylated spirit , iron oxide red C . I . 77491 - E172 , n - butyl alcohol , shellac and soya lecithin .
The blue radial imprinting on the 5 , 000 , 10 , 000 , 15 , 000 , 20 , 000 and 25 , 000 capsule strengths contains dehydrated alcohol , FD & C Blue # 2 aluminum lake C . I . 73015 - E132 , isopropyl alcohol , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Aptalis Pharma S . r . l . Via Martin Luther King , 13 20060 , Pessano con Bornago Milan , Italy Marketed by : Aptalis Pharma US , Inc . 100 Somerset Corporate Boulevard Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA © 2013 Aptalis Pharma US , Inc .
Issued April 2013 PKG - 1046 3 / 18 rev . 5 Package Label - Principal Display Panel – 10000 unit capsule [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
