DESCRIPTION Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel USP , 1 % contains the synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent naftifine hydrochloride .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel USP , 1 % is for topical use only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
Naftifine hydrochloride has an empirical formula of C21H21N • HCl and a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
Contains Active Ingredient Naftifine hydrochloride … .
1 % Inactive Ingredients Alcohol ( 52 % v / v ) , carbopol 974 P , diisopropanolamine , edetate disodium , polysorbate 80 and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naftifine hydrochloride is a synthetic allylamine derivative .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Naftifine hydrochloride has been shown to exhibit fungicidal activity in vitro against a broad spectrum of organisms , including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , and Microsporum gypseum ; and fungistatic activity against Candida species , including Candida albicans .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % has only been shown to be clinically effective against the disease entities listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
This inhibition of enzyme activity results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
Following single topical applications of 3 H - labeled Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % to the skin of healthy subjects , up to 4 . 2 % of the applied dose was absorbed .
Naftifine and / or its metabolites are excreted via the urine and feces with a half - life of approximately two to three days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel USP , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris and tinea corporis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans1 and Epidermophyton floccosum . 1 1 Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % is for topical use only and not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % is for external use only .
If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Diagnosis of the disease should be confirmed either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Information for patients The patient should be told to : • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• Keep Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % away from the eyes , nose , mouth and other mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year dermal carcinogenicity study , naftifine hydrochloride cream was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 1 % , 2 % and 3 % ( 10 , 20 , and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 30 mg / kg / day [ 3 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on mg / m2 comparison ] .
Naftifine hydrochloride revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Oral administration of naftifine hydrochloride to rats , throughout mating , gestation , parturition and lactation , demonstrated no effects on growth , fertility or reproduction , at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 12 times MRHD based on mg / m2 comparison ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits ( via oral administration ) at doses 150 times or more than the topical human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to naftifine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials with Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel , 1 % the incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : burning / stinging ( 5 . 0 % ) , itching ( 1 . 0 % ) , erythema ( 0 . 5 % ) , rash ( 0 . 5 % ) , skin tenderness ( 0 . 5 % ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A sufficient quantity of Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel USP , 1 % should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
The hands should be washed after application .
If no clinical improvement is seen after four weeks of treatment with Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel USP , 1 % the patient should be re - evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIED Naftifine Hydrochloride Gel USP , 1 % is supplied in collapsible tubes in the following sizes : 40 g – NDC 0115 - 1510 - 63 60 g – NDC 0115 - 1510 - 58 90 g – NDC 0115 - 1510 - 48 Note : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured by : Tolmar , Inc .
Fort Collins , CO 80526 Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 04006119 Rev . 0 11 / 18 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
