Active Ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide 10 % Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 12 % Sunscreen Uses Helps Prevent Sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison Control Center right away Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs For external use only Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark or while smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes Rinse with water to remove .
Directions SHAKE WELL to activate , if the mist is clear , keep shaking .
• spray generously and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours .
• Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad - Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit your time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Calendula Officinalis Extract , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Extract , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Capryl / Caprylyl Glucoside , Chamomilla Recutita ( Chamomile ) Extract , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Daucus Carota Sativa ( Carrot ) Extract , Glycerin , Glyceryl Caprylate , Glyceryl Stearate Citrate , Glyceryl Undecylenate , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Mangifera Indica ( Mango ) Butter , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Punica Granatum ( Pomegranate ) Extract , Stearic Acid , Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , Xanthan Gum , Zemea ( Corn ) Propanediol Supergoop !
PLAY SPF 50 100 % Mineral Body Mist With Green Tea Extract Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 50 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) 6 fl .
oz .
/ 177 ml .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
