Active Ingredients Purpose Zinc Oxide 12 . 0 % .....................................
Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Keep out of reach of children Stop use and ask a doctor is rash occurs Warnings • For external use only • Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not punture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 F . Do not use in the precesne of a flame or spark , or while smoking • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes • Rinse with water to remove • Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions SHAKE WELL to activate .
If the mist is clear , keep shaking .
• Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply : - after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating - immediately after towel drying - at least every 2 hours whem exposed to sunlight • Children un 6 months : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun epsecially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Bentonite , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Caprylyl Glycol , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Cetearyl Alcohol , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Coco Glucoside , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Heptyl Undecylenate , Jojoba Esters , Melissa Officinalis Leaf Extract , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Nasturtium Officinale Flower / Leaf Extract , Spiraea Ulmaria Flower Extract , Water Supergoop !
Play SPF 30 100 % Mineral Body Mist with Marigold Extract Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 30 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) 6 fl .
oz .
/ 177 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
