SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION • PRESCRIBING INFORMATION For Dermatologic Use .
Not for Ophthalmic Use .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION • Application of 14 C - labeled mupirocin ointment to the lower arm of normal male subjects followed by occlusion for 24 hours showed no measurable systemic absorption ( < 1 . 1 nanogram mupirocin per milliliter of whole blood ) .
Measurable radioactivity was present in the stratum corneum of these subjects 72 hours after application .
Following intravenous or oral administration , mupirocin is rapidly metabolized .
The principal metabolite , monic acid , is eliminated by renal excretion , and demonstrates no antibacterial activity .
In a trial conducted in 7 healthy adult male subjects , the elimination half - life after intravenous administration of mupirocin was 20 to 40 minutes for mupirocin and 30 to 80 minutes for monic acid .
The pharmacokinetics of mupirocin has not been studied in individuals with renal insufficiency .
Microbiology : Mupirocin is an antibacterial agent produced by fermentation using the organism Pseudomonas fluorescens .
Mupirocin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by reversibly and specifically binding to bacterial isoleucyl transfer - RNA ( tRNA ) synthetase .
Due to this unique mode of action , mupirocin does not demonstrate cross - resistance with other classes of antimicrobial agents .
When mupirocin resistance occurs , it results from the production of a modified isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase , or the acquisition of , by genetic transfer , a plasmid mediating a new isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase .
High - level plasmid - mediated resistance ( MIC > 512 mcg / mL ) has been reported in increasing numbers of isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and with higher frequency in coagulase - negative staphylococci .
Mupirocin resistance occurs with greater frequency in methicillin - resistant than methicillin - susceptible staphylococci .
Because of the occurrence of mupirocin resistance in methicillin - resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) , it is appropriate to test MRSA populations for mupirocin susceptibility prior to the use of mupirocin using a standardized method . 1 , 2 , 3 Mupirocin is bactericidal at concentrations achieved by topical administration .
Mupirocin is highly protein - bound ( > 97 % ) , and the effect of wound secretions on the MICs of mupirocin has not been determined .
Mupirocin has been shown to be active against susceptible strains of S . aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes , both in vitro and in clinical trials ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Mupirocin is active against most isolates of Staphylococcus epidermidis .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION • Mupirocin Ointment USP , 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to : S . aureus and S . pyogenes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION This drug is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the constituents of the product .
WARNINGS SECTION • Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse well with water .
In the event of a sensitization or severe local irritation from mupirocin ointment , usage should be discontinued .
Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including mupirocin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing isolates of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS SECTION • As with other antibacterial products , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Mupirocin ointment is not formulated for use on mucosal surfaces .
Intranasal use has been associated with isolated reports of stinging and drying .
A paraffin - based formulation — * BACTROBAN ® Nasal ( mupirocin calcium ointment ) — is available for intranasal use .
Polyethylene glycol can be absorbed from open wounds and damaged skin and is excreted by the kidneys .
In common with other polyethylene glycol - based ointments , mupirocin ointment should not be used in conditions where absorption of large quantities of polyethylene glycol is possible , especially if there is evidence of moderate or severe renal impairment .
Mupirocin ointment should not be used with intravenous cannulae or at central intravenous sites because of the potential to promote fungal infections and antimicrobial resistance .
Information for PatientsUse this medication only as directed by the healthcare provider .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If mupirocin ointment gets in or near the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
The medication should be stopped and the healthcare provider contacted if irritation , severe itching , or rash occurs .
If impetigo has not improved in 3 to 5 days , contact your healthcare provider .
Drug InteractionsThe effect of the concurrent application of mupirocin ointment and other drug products has not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential of mupirocin have not been conducted .
Results of the following studies performed with mupirocin calcium or mupirocin sodium in vitro and in vivo did not indicate a potential for genotoxicity : Rat primary hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis , sediment analysis for DNA strand breaks , Salmonella reversion test ( Ames ) , Escherichia coli mutation assay , metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and bone marrow micronuclei assay in mice .
Reproduction studies were performed in male and female rats with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 14 times a human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m2 basis and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility and reproductive performance from mupirocin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits with mupirocin administrated subcutaneously at doses up to 22 and 43 times , respectively , the human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m2 basis and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to mupirocin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when mupirocin ointment is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseThe safety and effectiveness of mupirocin ointment have been established in the age range of 2 months to 16 years .
Use of mupirocin ointment in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled trials of mupirocin ointment in impetigo in pediatric subjects studied as a part of the pivotal clinical trials ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
The following local adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of mupirocin ointment : burning , stinging , or pain in 1 . 5 % of subjects ; itching in 1 % of subjects ; rash , nausea , erythema , dry skin , tenderness , swelling , contact dermatitis , and increased exudate in less than 1 % of patients . Systemic allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , urticaria , angioedema and generalized rash have been reported in patients treated with formulations of mupirocin .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION A small amount of mupirocin ointment should be applied to the affected area 3 times daily .
The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing if desired .
Patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days should be re - evaluated .
CLINICAL STUDIES SECTION The efficacy of topical mupirocin ointment in impetigo was tested in 2 trials .
In the first , subjects with impetigo were randomized to receive either mupirocin ointment or vehicle placebo 3 times daily for 8 to 12 days .
Clinical efficacy rates at end of therapy in the evaluable populations ( adults and pediatric patients included ) were 71 % for mupirocin ointment ( n = 49 ) and 35 % for vehicle placebo ( n = 51 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates in the evaluable populations were 94 % for mupirocin ointment and 62 % for vehicle placebo .
There were no side effects reported in the group receiving mupirocin ointment .
In the second trial , subjects with impetigo were randomized to receive either mupirocin ointment 3 times daily or 30 to 40 mg / kg oral erythromycin ethylsuccinate per day ( this was an unblinded trial ) for 8 days .
There was a follow - up visit 1 week after treatment ended .
Clinical efficacy rates at the follow - up visit in the evaluable populations ( adults and pediatric subjects included ) were 93 % for mupirocin ointment ( n = 29 ) and 78 . 5 % for erythromycin ( n = 28 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates in the evaluable populations were 100 % for both test groups .
There were no side effects reported in the group receiving mupirocin ointment .
Pediatrics : There were 91 pediatric subjects aged 2 months to 15 years in the first trial described above .
Clinical efficacy rates at end of therapy in the evaluable populations were 78 % for mupirocin ointment ( n = 42 ) and 36 % for vehicle placebo ( n = 49 ) .
In the second trial described above , all subjects were pediatric except 2 adults in the group receiving mupirocin ointment .
The age range of the pediatric subjects was 7 months to 13 years .
The clinical efficacy rate for mupirocin ointment ( n = 27 ) was 96 % , and for erythromycin it was unchanged ( 78 . 5 % ) .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
