DESCRIPTION Potassium chloride extended - release tablets , USP 10 mEq product is an immediately dispersing extended - release oral dosage form of potassium chloride containing 750 mg of microencapsulated potassium chloride , USP equivalent to 10 mEq of potassium in a tablet .
Potassium chloride extended - release tablets , USP 20 mEq product is an immediately dispersing extended - release oral dosage form of potassium chloride containing 1 , 500 mg of microencapsulated potassium chloride , USP equivalent to 20 mEq of potassium in a tablet .
These formulations are intended to slow the release of potassium so that the likelihood of a high localized concentration of potassium chloride within the gastrointestinal tract is reduced .
Potassium chloride extended release tablets , USP is an electrolyte replenisher .
The chemical name of the active ingredient is potassium chloride , and the structural formula is KCl .
Potassium chloride , USP occurs as a white , granular powder or as colorless crystals .
It is odorless and has a saline taste .
Its solutions are neutral to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
Potassium chloride extended release tablets , USP is a tablet formulation ( not enteric - coated or wax matrix ) containing individually microencapsulated potassium chloride crystals which disperse upon tablet disintegration .
In simulated gastric fluid at 37 ° C and in the absence of outside agitation , potassium chloride extended release tablets begins disintegrating into microencapsulated crystals within seconds and completely disintegrates within 1 minute .
The microencapsulated crystals are formulated to provide an extended - release of potassium chloride , USP Inactive Ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , ethyl cellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose and talc .
FDA approved acceptance criteria for assay differs from USP test .
FDA approved dissolution test specifications differs from USP test .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The potassium ion is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity ; the transmission of nerve impulses ; the contraction of cardiac , skeletal and smooth muscle ; and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady - state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
Potassium depletion will occur whenever the rate of potassium loss through renal excretion and / or loss from the gastrointestinal tract exceeds the rate of potassium intake .
Such depletion usually develops as a consequence of therapy with diuretics , primary or secondary hyperaldosteronism , diabetic ketoacidosis or inadequate replacement of potassium in patients on prolonged parenteral nutrition .
Depletion can develop rapidly with severe diarrhea , especially if associated with vomiting .
Potassium depletion due to these causes is usually accompanied by a concomitant loss of chloride and is manifested by hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis .
Potassium depletion may produce weakness , fatigue , disturbances or cardiac rhythm ( primarily ectopic beats ) , prominent U - waves in the electrocardiogram , and in advanced cases , flaccid paralysis and / or impaired ability to concentrate urine .
If potassium depletion associated with metabolic alkalosis cannot be managed by correcting the fundamental cause of the deficiency , e . g . , where the patient requires long - term diuretic therapy , supplemental potassium in the form of high - potassium food or potassium chloride may be able to restore normal potassium levels .
In rare circumstances ( e . g . , patients with renal tubular acidosis ) potassium depletion may be associated with metabolic acidosis and hyperchloremia .
In such patients potassium replacement should be accomplished with potassium salts other than the chloride , such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate , or potassium gluconate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE BECAUSE OF REPORTS OF INTESTINAL AND GASTRIC ULCERATION AND BLEEDING WITH CONTROLLED - RELEASE POTASSIUM CHLORIDE PREPARATIONS , THESE DRUGS SHOULD BE RESERVED FOR THOSE PATIENTS WHO CANNOT TOLERATE OR REFUSE TO TAKE LIQUID OR EFFERVESCENT POTASSIUM PREPARATIONS OR FOR PATIENTS IN WHOM THERE IS A PROBLEM OF COMPLIANCE WITH THESE PREPARATIONS .
1 .
For the treatment of patients with hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis , in digitalis intoxication and in patients with hypokalemic familial periodic paralysis .
If hypokalemia is the result of diuretic therapy , consideration should be given to the use of a lower dose of diuretic , which may be sufficient without leading to hypokalemia .
2 .
For the prevention of hypokalemia in patients who would be at particular risk if hypokalemia were to develop , e . g . , digitalized patients or patients with significant cardiac arrhythmias .
The use of potassium salts in patients receiving diuretics for uncomplicated essential hypertension is often unnecessary when such patients have a normal dietary pattern and when low doses of the diuretic are used .
Serum potassium should be checked periodically , however , and if hypokalemia occurs , dietary supplementation with potassium - containing foods may be adequate to control milder cases .
In more severe cases , and if dose adjustment of the diuretic is ineffective or unwarranted , supplementation with potassium salts may be indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium supplements are contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia since a further increase in serum potassium concentration in such patients can produce cardiac arrest .
Hyperkalemia may complicate any of the following conditions : chronic renal failure , systemic acidosis , such as diabetic acidosis , acute dehydration , extensive tissue breakdown as in severe burns , adrenal insufficiency , or the administration of a potassium - sparing diuretic ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , or amiloride ) [ see OVERDOSAGE ] .
Controlled - release formulations of potassium chloride have produced esophageal ulceration in certain cardiac patients with esophageal compression due to enlarged left atrium .
Potassium supplementation , when indicated in such patients , should be given as a liquid preparation or as an aqueous ( water ) suspension of potassium chloride [ see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] .
All solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride are contraindicated in any patient in whom there is structural , pathological ( e . g . , diabetic gastroparesis ) , or pharmacologic ( use of anticholinergic agents or other agents with anticholinergic properties at sufficient doses to exert anticholinergic effects ) cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract .
WARNINGS Hyperkalemia [ see OVERDOSAGE ] In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium , the administration of potassium salts can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
This occurs most commonly in patients given potassium by the intravenous route but may also occur in patients given potassium orally .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium salts in patients with chronic renal disease , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion , requires particularly careful monitoring of the serum potassium concentration and appropriate dosage adjustment .
Interaction with Potassium - Sparing Diuretics Hypokalemia should not be treated by the concomitant administration of potassium salts and a potassium - sparing diuretic ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , or amiloride ) since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Interaction with Renin Angiotensin - Aldosterone System Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) including angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , spironolactone , eplerenone , or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant RAAS therapy .
Interaction with Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and impairing the renin - angiotensin system .
Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant NSAID therapy Gastrointestinal Lesions Solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride can produce ulcerative and / or stenotic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract .
Based on spontaneous adverse reaction reports , enteric - coated preparations of potassium chloride are associated with an increased frequency of small bowel lesions ( 40 to 50 per 100 , 000 patient years ) compared to sustained - release wax matrix formulations ( less than one per 100 , 000 patient years ) .
Because of the lack of extensive marketing experience with microencapsulated products , a comparison between such products and wax matrix or enteric - coated products is not available .
Potassium chloride extended release tablets is a tablet formulated to provide an controlled rate of release of microencapsulated potassium chloride and thus to minimize the possibility of a high local concentration of potassium near the gastrointestinal wall .
Prospective trials have been conducted in normal human volunteers in which the upper gastrointestinal tract was evaluated by endoscopic inspection before and after 1 week of solid oral potassium chloride therapy .
The ability of this model to predict events occurring in usual clinical practice is unknown .
Trials which approximated usual clinical practice did not reveal any clear differences between the wax matrix and microencapsulated dosage forms .
In contrast , there was a higher incidence of gastric and duodenal lesions in subjects receiving a high dose of a wax matrix controlled - release formulation under conditions which did not resemble usual or recommended clinical practice ( i . e . , 96 mEq per day in divided doses of potassium chloride administered to fasted patients , in the presence of an anticholinergic drug to delay gastric emptying ) .
The upper gastrointestinal lesions observed by endoscopy were asymptomatic and were not accompanied by evidence of bleeding ( Hemoccult testing ) .
The relevance of these findings to the usual conditions ( i . e . , non - fasting , no anticholinergic agent , smaller doses ) under which extended - release potassium chloride products are used is uncertain ; epidemiologic studies have not identified an elevated risk , compared to microencapsulated products , for upper gastrointestinal lesions in patients receiving wax matrix formulations .
Potassium chloride extended release tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of ulceration , obstruction , or perforation should be considered if severe vomiting , abdominal pain , distention , or gastrointestinal bleeding occurs .
Metabolic Acidosis Hypokalemia in patients with metabolic acidosis should be treated with an alkalinizing potassium salt such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate or potassium gluconate .
PRECAUTIONS General The diagnosis of potassium depletion is ordinarily made by demonstrating hypokalemia in a patient with a clinical history suggesting some cause for potassium depletion .
In interpreting the serum potassium level , the physician should bear in mind that acute alkalosis per se can produce hypokalemia in the absence of a deficit in total body potassium while acute acidosis per se can increase the serum potassium concentration into the normal range even in the presence of a reduced total body potassium .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis requires careful attention to acid - base balance and appropriate monitoring of serum electrolytes , the electrocardiogram , and the clinical status of the patient .
Information for Patients Physicians should consider reminding the patient of the following : To take each dose with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid .
To take each dose without crushing , chewing or sucking the tablets .
If those patients are having difficulty swallowing whole tablets , they may try one of the following alternate methods of administration : a . Break the tablet in half , and take each half separately with a glass of water .
b . Prepare an aqueous ( water ) suspension as follows : 1 .
Place the whole tablet ( s ) in approximately 1 / 2 glass of water ( 4 fluid ounces ) .
2 .
Allow approximately 2 minutes for the tablet ( s ) to disintegrate .
3 .
Stir for about half a minute after the tablet ( s ) has disintegrated .
4 .
Swirl the suspension and consume the entire contents of the glass immediately by drinking or by the use of a straw .
5 .
Add another one fluid ounce of water , swirl , and consume immediately .
6 .
Then , add an additional one fluid ounce of water , swirl , and consume immediately .
Aqueous suspension of potassium chloride that is not taken immediately should be discarded .
The use of other liquids for suspending potassium chloride tablets is not recommended .
To take this medicine following the frequency and amount prescribed by the physician .
This is especially important if the patient is also taking diuretics and / or digitalis preparations .
To check with the physician at once if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding is noticed .
Laboratory Tests When blood is drawn for analysis of plasma potassium it is important to recognize that artifactual elevations can occur after improper venipuncture technique or as a result of in vitro hemolysis of the sample .
Drug Interactions Potassium - sparing diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors [ see WARNINGS ] .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and fertility studies in animals have not been performed .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium chloride .
It is unlikely that potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia would have an adverse effect on the fetus or would affect reproductive capacity .
Nursing Mothers The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq per litre .
Since oral potassium becomes part of the body potassium pool , so long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of potassium chloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection ; and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGSand OVERDOSAGE ] .
There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ] .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further , taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time .
OVERDOSAGE The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired or if potassium is administered too rapidly intravenously , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result [ seeCONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ] .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 to 8 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - waves , depression of S - T segment , and prolongation of the QT - interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 to 12 mEq / L ) .
Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : 1 .
Patients should be closely monitored for arrhythmias and electrolyte changes .
2 .
Elimination of foods and medications containing potassium and of any agents with potassium - sparing properties such as potassium - sparing diuretics , ARBS , ACE inhibitors , NSAIDs , certain nutritional supplements and many others .
3 .
Intravenous calcium gluconate if the patient is at no risk or low risk of developing digitalis toxicity .
4 .
Intravenous administration of 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
5 .
Correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
6 .
Use of exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
The extended - release feature means that absorption and toxic effects may be delayed for hours .
Consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dietary intake of potassium by the average adult is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
Potassium depletion sufficient to cause hypokalemia usually requires the loss of 200 or more mEq of potassium from the total body store .
Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
The dose for the prevention of hypokalemia is typically in the range of 20 mEq per day .
Doses of 40 to 100 mEq per day or more are used for the treatment of potassium depletion .
Dosage should be divided if more than 20 mEq per day is given such that no more than 20 mEq is given in a single dose .
Each potassium chloride extended release tablets 10 mEq provides 750 mg of potassium chloride equivalent to 10 mEq of potassium .
Each potassium chloride extended release tablets 20 mEq provides 1500 mg of potassium chloride equivalent to 20 mEq of potassium chloride .
Potassium chloride extended release tablets should be taken with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid .
This product should not be taken on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see WARNINGS ] .
Patients having difficulty swallowing whole tablets may try one of the following alternate methods of administration : a . Break the tablet in half and take each half separately with a glass of water .
b . Prepare an aqueous ( water ) suspension as follows : 1 .
Place the whole tablet ( s ) in approximately 1 / 2 glass of water ( 4 fluid ounces ) .
2 .
Allow approximately 2 minutes for the tablet ( s ) to disintegrate .
3 .
Stir for about half a minute after the tablet ( s ) has disintegrated .
4 .
Swirl the suspension and consume the entire contents of the glass immediately by drinking or by the use of a straw .
5 .
Add another one fluid ounce of water , swirl , and consume immediately .
6 .
Then , add an additional one fluid ounce of water , swirl , and consume immediately .
Aqueous suspension of potassium chloride that is not taken immediately should be discarded .
The use of other liquids for suspending Potassium chloride extended release tablets is not recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Chloride Extended - release Tablets USP , 20 mEq Potassium chloride extended - release Tablets , USP 20 mEq ( equivalent to 1500 mg ) of potassium chloride are white to off - white , oblong shaped tablets , debossed with G20M on one side and scored on other side .
NDC : 70518 - 3521 - 00 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; Excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : Potassium Chloride Extended - release GENERIC : Potassium Chloride Extended - release DOSAGE : TABLET ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 3521 - 0 COLOR : white SHAPE : OVAL SCORE : Two even pieces SIZE : 21 mm IMPRINT : G20M PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • POTASSIUM CHLORIDE 1500 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • CELLULOSE , MICROCRYSTALLINE • CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM • ETHYLCELLULOSES • HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE • TALC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
