DESCRIPTION Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is a mild central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant available as 5 mg / 5 mL and 10 mg / 5 mL oral solutions for oral administration .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride is methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidineacetate hydrochloride , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methylphenidate hydrochloride , USP is a white to off white , odorless , fine crystalline powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
Each mL of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution 5 mg / 5 mL contains 1 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride , USP .
Each mL of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution 10 mg / 5 mL contains 2 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride , USP .
In addition , methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution also contains the following inactive ingredients : diluted hydrochloric acid , glycerin , polyethylene glycol , grape flavor and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d - and l - threo enantiomers .
The d - threo enantiomer is more pharmacologically active than the l - threo enantiomer .
Methylphenidate HCl is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in humans is not completely understood , but methylphenidate presumably activates the brain stem arousal system and cortex to produce its stimulant effect .
Methylphenidate is thought to block the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
There is neither specific evidence which clearly establishes the mechanism whereby methylphenidate hydrochloride produces its mental and behavioral effects in children , nor conclusive evidence regarding how these effects relate to the condition of the central nervous system .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is readily absorbed .
Following oral administration of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution , peak plasma methylphenidate concentrations are achieved at 1 to 2 hours .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution has been shown to be bioequivalent to Ritalin ® tablet .
The mean Cmax following a 20 mg dose is approximately 9 ng / mL .
Food Effect In a study in adult volunteers to investigate the effects of a high - fat meal on the bioavailability of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution at a dose of 20 mg , the presence of food delayed the peak by approximately 1 hour ( 1 . 7 hours , fasted and 2 . 7 hours , fed ) .
Overall , a high - fat meal increased the Cmax of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution by about 13 % and the AUC by about 25 % , on average .
Through a cross - study comparison , the magnitude of increase in Cmax and AUC is found to be comparable between the methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution and Ritalin , the immediate release tablet .
Metabolism and Excretion In humans , methylphenidate is metabolized primarily via deesterification to alpha - phenylpiperidine acetic acid ( PPA , ritalinic acid ) .
The metabolite has little or no pharmacologic activity .
After oral dosing of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite was PPA , accounting for approximately 80 % of the dose .
The pharmacokinetics of the methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution have been studied in healthy adult volunteers .
The mean terminal half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of methylphenidate following administration of 20 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride ( t1 / 2 = 2 . 7 hours ) is comparable to the mean terminal t1 / 2 following administration of Ritalin ( methylphenidate hydrochloride immediate - release tablets ) ( t1 / 2 = 2 . 8 h ) in healthy adult volunteers .
Special Populations Gender – The effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate after methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution administration has not been studied .
Race – The influence of race on the pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate after methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution administration has not been studied .
Age – The pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate after methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution administration have not been studied in pediatrics .
Renal Insufficiency There is no experience with the use of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution in patients with renal insufficiency .
After oral administration of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , methylphenidate was extensively metabolized and approximately 80 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine in the form of ritalinic acid .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance , renal insufficiency is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
Hepatic Insufficiency There is no experience with the use of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Attention Deficit Disorders , Narcolepsy Attention Deficit Disorders ( previously known as Minimal Brain Dysfunction in Children ) .
Other terms being used to describe the behavioral syndrome below include : Hyperkinetic Child Syndrome , Minimal Brain Damage , Minimal Cerebral Dysfunction , Minor Cerebral Dysfunction .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride is indicated as an integral part of a total treatment program which typically includes other remedial measures ( psychological , educational , social ) for a stabilizing effect in children with a behavioral syndrome characterized by the following group of developmentally inappropriate symptoms : moderate - to - severe distractibility , short attention span , hyperactivity , emotional lability , and impulsivity .
The diagnosis of this syndrome should not be made with finality when these symptoms are only of comparatively recent origin .
Nonlocalizing ( soft ) neurological signs , learning disability , and abnormal EEG may or may not be present , and a diagnosis of central nervous system dysfunction may or may not be warranted .
Special Diagnostic Considerations Specific etiology of this syndrome is unknown , and there is no single diagnostic test .
Adequate diagnosis requires the use not only of medical but of special psychological , educational , and social resources .
Characteristics commonly reported include : chronic history of short attention span , distractibility , emotional lability , impulsivity , and moderate - to - severe hyperactivity ; minor neurological signs and abnormal EEG .
Learning may or may not be impaired .
The diagnosis must be based upon a complete history and evaluation of the child and not solely on the presence of one or more of these characteristics .
Drug treatment is not indicated for all children with this syndrome .
Stimulants are not intended for use in the child who exhibits symptoms secondary to environmental factors and / or primary psychiatric disorders , including psychosis .
Appropriate educational placement is essential and psychosocial intervention is generally necessary .
When remedial measures alone are insufficient , the decision to prescribe stimulant medication will depend upon the physician ' s assessment of the chronicity and severity of the child ' s symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Marked anxiety , tension , and agitation are contraindications to methylphenidate hydrochloride , since the drug may aggravate these symptoms .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride is contraindicated also in patients known to be hypersensitive to the drug , in patients with glaucoma , and in patients with motor tics or with a family history or diagnosis of Tourette ' s syndrome .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride is contraindicated during treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors , and also within a minimum of 14 days following discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( hypertensive crises may result ) .
WARNINGS Serious Cardiovascular Events Sudden Death and Pre - Existing Structural Cardiac Abnormalities or Other Serious Heart Problems Children and Adolescents – Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
Although some serious heart problems alone carry an increased risk of sudden death , stimulant products generally should not be used in children or adolescents with known serious structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , or other serious cardiac problems that may place them at increased vulnerability to the sympathomimetic effects of a stimulant drug .
Adults – Sudden deaths , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults taking stimulant drugs at usual doses for ADHD .
Although the role of stimulants in these adult cases is also unknown , adults have a greater likelihood than children of having serious structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , coronary artery disease , or other serious cardiac problems .
Adults with such abnormalities should also generally not be treated with stimulant drugs .
Hypertension and Other Cardiovascular Conditions Stimulant medications cause a modest increase in average blood pressure ( about 2 to 4 mmHg ) and average heart rate ( about 3 to 6 bpm ) , and individuals may have larger increases .
While the mean changes alone would not be expected to have short - term consequences , all patients should be monitored for larger changes in heart rate and blood pressure .
Caution is indicated in treating patients whose underlying medical conditions might be compromised by increases in blood pressure or heart rate , e . g . , those with pre - existing hypertension , heart failure , recent myocardial infarction , or ventricular arrhythmia .
Assessing Cardiovascular Status in Patients being Treated with Stimulant Medications Children , adolescents , or adults who are being considered for treatment with stimulant medications should have a careful history ( including assessment for a family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia ) and physical exam to assess for the presence of cardiac disease , and should receive further cardiac evaluation if findings suggest such disease ( e . g . , electrocardiogram and echocardiogram ) .
Patients who develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease during stimulant treatment should undergo a prompt cardiac evaluation .
Psychiatric Adverse Events Pre - Existing Psychosis – Administration of stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Bipolar Illness – Particular care should be taken in using stimulants to treat ADHD in patients with comorbid bipolar disorder because of concern for possible induction of a mixed / manic episode in such patients .
Prior to initiating treatment with a stimulant , patients with comorbid depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
Emergence of New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms – Treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms , e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania in children and adolescents without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania can be caused by stimulants at usual doses .
If such symptoms occur , consideration should be given to a possible causal role of the stimulant , and discontinuation of treatment may be appropriate .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies , such symptoms occurred in about 0 . 1 % ( 4 patients with events out of 3482 exposed to methylphenidate or amphetamine for several weeks at usual doses ) of stimulant - treated patients compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
Aggression – Aggressive behavior or hostility is often observed in children and adolescents with ADHD , and has been reported in clinical trials and the postmarketing experience of some medications indicated for the treatment of ADHD .
Although there is no systematic evidence that stimulants cause aggressive behavior or hostility , patients beginning treatment for ADHD should be monitored for the appearance of or worsening of aggressive behavior or hostility .
Seizures There is some clinical evidence that stimulants may lower the convulsive threshold in patients with prior history of seizures , in patients with prior EEG abnormalities in absence of seizures , and , very rarely , in patients without a history of seizures and no prior EEG evidence of seizures .
In the presence of seizures , the drug should be discontinued .
Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or discontinuation ) : Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
Peripheral Vasculopathy , Including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon Stimulants , including methylphenidate hydrochloride , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , were observed in post - marketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
Long - Term Suppression of Growth Careful follow - up of weight and height in children ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or non - medication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and non - medication treated children over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated children ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Published data are inadequate to determine whether chronic use of amphetamines may cause a similar suppression of growth , however , it is anticipated that they likely have this effect as well .
Therefore , growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , and patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
Visual Disturbance Difficulties with accommodation and blurring of vision have been reported with stimulant treatment .
USE IN CHILDREN LESS THAN SIX YEARS OF AGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride should not be used in children under six years , since safety and efficacy in this age group have not been established .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Methylphenidate hydrochloride should be given cautiously to emotionally unstable patients , such as those with a history of drug dependence or alcoholism , because such patients may increase dosage on their own initiative .
Chronically abusive use can lead to marked tolerance and psychic dependence with varying degrees of abnormal behavior .
Frank psychotic episodes can occur , especially with parenteral abuse .
Careful supervision is required during drug withdrawal , since severe depression as well as the effects of chronic overactivity can be unmasked .
Long - term follow - up may be required because of the patient ' s basic personality disturbances .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients with an element of agitation may react adversely ; discontinue therapy if necessary .
Periodic CBC , differential , and platelet counts are advised during prolonged therapy .
Drug treatment is not indicated in all cases of this behavioral syndrome and should be considered only in light of the complete history and evaluation of the child .
The decision to prescribe methylphenidate hydrochloride should depend on the physician ' s assessment of the chronicity and severity of the child ' s symptoms and their appropriateness for his / her age .
Prescription should not depend solely on the presence of one or more of the behavioral characteristics .
When these symptoms are associated with acute stress reactions , treatment with methylphenidate hydrochloride is usually not indicated .
Long - term effects of methylphenidate hydrochloride in children have not been well established .
Information for Patients Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with methylphenidate and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide is available for methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Priapism Advise patients , caregivers , and family members of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct the patient to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes [ Peripheral Vasculopathy , Including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon ] • Instruct patients beginning treatment with methylphenidate hydrochloride about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
• Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride .
• Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
Drug Interactions Methylphenidate hydrochloride may decrease the hypotensive effect of guanethidine .
Use cautiously with pressor agents .
Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate hydrochloride may inhibit the metabolism of coumarin anticoagulants , anticonvulsants ( phenobarbital , diphenylhydantoin , primidone ) , phenylbutazone , and tricyclic drugs ( imipramine , clomipramine , desipramine ) .
Downward dosage adjustments of these drugs may be required when given concomitantly with methylphenidate hydrochloride .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas and , in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas , at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 30 times and 2 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / kg and mg / m2 basis , respectively .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 22 times and 4 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / kg and mg / m2 basis , respectively .
Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay or in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay .
Sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response , in an in vitro assay in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
The genotoxic potential of methylphenidate has not been evaluated in an in vivo assay .
Usage in Pregnancy Adequate animal reproduction studies to establish safe use of methylphenidate hydrochloride during pregnancy have not been conducted .
However , in a recently conducted study , methylphenidate has been shown to have teratogenic effects in rabbits when given in doses of 200 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 167 times and 78 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / kg and a mg / m2 basis , respectively .
In rats , teratogenic effects were not seen when the drug was given in doses of 75 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 62 . 5 and 13 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / kg and a mg / m2 basis , respectively .
Therefore , until more information is available , methylphenidate should not be prescribed for women of childbearing age unless , in the opinion of the physician , the potential benefits outweigh the possible risks .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nervousness and insomnia are the most common adverse reactions but are usually controlled by reducing dosage and omitting the drug in the afternoon or evening .
Other reactions include hypersensitivity ( including skin rash , urticaria , fever , arthralgia , exfoliative dermatitis , erythema multiforme with histopathological findings of necrotizing vasculitis , and thrombocytopenic purpura ) ; anorexia ; nausea ; dizziness ; palpitations ; headache ; dyskinesia ; drowsiness ; blood pressure and pulse changes , both up and down ; tachycardia ; angina ; cardiac arrhythmia ; abdominal pain ; weight loss during prolonged therapy ; libido changes ; and rhabdomyolysis .
There have been rare reports of Tourette ’ s syndrome .
Toxic psychosis has been reported .
Although a definite causal relationship has not been established , the following have been reported in patients taking this drug : instances of abnormal liver function , ranging from transaminase elevation to severe hepatic injury ; isolated cases of cerebral arteritis and / or occlusion ; leukopenia and / or anemia ; transient depressed mood ; a few instances of scalp hair loss ; serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs .
Very rare reports of neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) have been received , and , in most of these , patients were concurrently receiving therapies associated with NMS .
In a single report , a ten year old boy who had been taking methylphenidate for approximately 18 months experienced an NMS - like event within 45 minutes of ingesting his first dose of venlafaxine .
It is uncertain whether this case represented a drug - drug interaction , a response to either drug alone , or some other cause .
In children , loss of appetite , abdominal pain , weight loss during prolonged therapy , insomnia , and tachycardia may occur more frequently ; however , any of the other adverse reactions listed above may also occur .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of acute overdosage , resulting principally from overstimulation of the central nervous system and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : vomiting , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsions ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center regarding treatment for up - to - date guidance and advice .
Treatment consists of appropriate supportive measures .
The patient must be protected against self - injury and against external stimuli that would aggravate overstimulation already present .
Gastric contents may be evacuated by gastric lavage .
In the presence of severe intoxication , use a carefully titrated dosage of a short - acting barbiturate before performing gastric lavage .
Other measures to detoxify the gut include administration of activated charcoal and a cathartic .
Intensive care must be provided to maintain adequate circulation and respiratory exchange ; external cooling procedures may be required for hyperpyrexia .
Efficacy of peritoneal dialysis or extracorporeal hemodialysis for methylphenidate overdosage has not been established .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized according to the needs and responses of the patient .
Adults Administer in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily , preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
Average dosage is 20 to 30 mg daily .
Some patients may require 40 to 60 mg daily .
In others , 10 to 15 mg daily will be adequate .
Patients who are unable to sleep if medication is taken late in the day should take the last dose before 6 p . m . Children ( 6 years and over ) Methylphenidate hydrochloride should be initiated in small doses , with gradual weekly increments .
Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , the drug should be discontinued .
Start with 5 mg twice daily ( before breakfast and lunch ) with gradual increments of 5 to 10 mg weekly .
If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur , reduce dosage , or , if necessary , discontinue the drug .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride should be periodically discontinued to assess the child ' s condition .
Improvement may be sustained when the drug is either temporarily or permanently discontinued .
Drug treatment should not and need not be indefinite and usually may be discontinued after puberty .
HOW SUPPLIED Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution 5 mg per 5 mL is available as a clear colorless liquid .
Bottles of 250 mL . . . . . . . . NDC 43602 - 177 - 25 Bottles of 500 mL . . . . . . . . NDC 43602 - 177 - 05 Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution 10 mg per 5 mL is available as a clear colorless liquid .
Bottles of 250 mL . . . . . . . . NDC 43602 - 178 - 25 Bottles of 500 mL . . . . . . . . NDC 43602 - 178 - 05 Dispense in tight container with child - resistant closure .
Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Ascent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Central Islip , NY 11722 Rev : 01 / 20 MEDICATION GUIDE Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution , 5 mg / 5 mL and 10 mg / 5 mL ( meth ’’ il fen ’ i date hye ’’ droe klor ’ ide ) CII Read the Medication Guide that comes with methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution before you or your child starts taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your or your child ' s treatment with methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
What is the most important information I should know about methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ?
The following have been reported with use of methylphenidate HCl oral solution and other stimulant medicines .
1 .
Heart - related problems : • sudden death in patients who have heart problems or heart defects • stroke and heart attack in adults • increased blood pressure and heart rate Tell your doctor if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these problems .
Your doctor should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
Your doctor should check you or your child ' s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
Call your doctor right away if you or your child has any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
2 .
Mental ( Psychiatric ) problems : All Patients • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new or worse aggressive behavior or hostility Children and Teenagers • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , believing things that are not true , are suspicious ) or new manic symptoms Tell your doctor about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your doctor right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution , especially seeing or hearing things that are not real , believing things that are not real , or are suspicious .
3 .
Circulation problems in fingers and toes [ Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon ] : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Tell your doctor if you have or your child has numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in your fingers or toes .
• Call your doctor right away if you have or your child has any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride .
What Is methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ?
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is a central nervous system stimulant prescription medicine .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is a liquid form of medication that you take by mouth .
It is used for the treatment of Attention - Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in patients with ADHD .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution should be used as a part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include counseling or other therapies .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is also used in the treatment of a sleep disorder called narcolepsy .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your doctor if you or your child have ( or have a family history of ) ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
Who should not take methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ?
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution should not be taken if you or your child : • are very anxious , tense , or agitated • have an eye problem called glaucoma • have tics or Tourette ' s syndrome , or a family history of Tourette ' s syndrome .
Tics are hard to control repeated movements or sounds .
• are taking or have taken within the past 14 days an antidepression medicine called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor or MAOI .
• are allergic to anything in methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution should not be used in children less than 6 years old because it has not been studied in this age group .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution may not be right for you or your child .
Before starting methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution tell your or your child ' s doctor about all health conditions ( or a family history of ) including : • heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure • mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression • tics or Tourette ' s syndrome • seizures or have had an abnormal brain wave test ( EEG ) • circulation problems in fingers and toes Tell your doctor if you or your child is pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding .
Can methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution be taken with other medicines ?
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines that you or your child take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be adjusted while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
Your doctor will decide whether methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your doctor if you or your child takes : • antidepression medicines including MAOIs • seizure medicines • blood thinner medicines • blood pressure medicines • cold or allergy medicines that contain decongestants Know the medicines that you or your child takes .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution without talking to your doctor first .
How should methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution be taken ?
• Take methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution exactly as prescribed .
Your doctor may adjust the dose until it is right for you or your child .
• Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution is usually taken 2 to 3 times a day .
• Take methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
• From time to time , your doctor may stop methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution treatment for awhile to check ADHD symptoms .
• Your doctor may do regular checks of the blood , heart , and blood pressure while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
Children should have their height and weight checked often while taking methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
Methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution treatment may be stopped if a problem is found during these check - ups .
• If you or your child takes too much methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution or overdoses , call your doctor or poison control center right away , or get emergency treatment .
What are possible side effects of methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ?
See “ What is the most important information I should know about methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ? ”
for information on reported heart and mental problems .
Other serious side effects include : • slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children • seizures , mainly in patients with a history of seizures • eyesight changes or blurred vision • Painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) have occurred with methylphenidate .
If you or your child develop priapism , seek medical help right away .
Because of the potential for lasting damage , priapism should be evaluated by a doctor immediately .
Common side effects include : • nervousness • nausea • trouble sleeping • decreased appetite • headache • dizziness • stomach ache • weight loss • fast heart beat Talk to your doctor if you or your child has side effects that are bothersome or do not go away .
This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ?
• Store methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution in a safe place at room temperature , 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , please contact Ascent Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 855 - 221 - 1622 or visit the website at www . ascentpharm . com .
What are the ingredients in methylphenidate hydrochloride oral solution ?
Active Ingredient : methylphenidate hydrochloride , USP Inactive Ingredients : diluted hydrochloric acid , glycerin , polyethylene glycol , grape flavor and purified water .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Ascent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Central Islip , NY 11722 Rev : 01 / 20 Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , 5 mg / 5 mL CII [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , 10 mg / 5 mL CII [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
