ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Octocrylene 10 . 0 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Oxybenzone 6 . 0 % Homosalate 5 . 0 % Octyl Salicylate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % PURPOSE Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • Very Water Resistant ( 80 min ) Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes , rinse with water to remove Stop using and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Apply generously before sun exposure and as needed • Children under 6 months of age ; ask a doctor • Use sunscreens with broad spectrum SPF values of 15 or higher regularly and as directed • Limit time in the sun , especially between the hours of 10 a . m . and 2 p . m . , when the sun ’ s rays are most intense • Wear clothing to cover skin exposed to the sun ; for example , long - sleeved shirts , pants , sunglasses , and broad - brimmed hats • Reapply sunscreen at least every 2 hours , more often if you ’ re sweating or jumping in and out of the water Inactive Ingredients Water , Aloe Vera Gel ( from Aruba ) , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Pentaerythrityl Distearate , VP / Eicosene Copolymer , Dimethicone , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylparaben , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Sodium Polyacrylate , Fragrance .
VERY WATER RESISTANT SUNSCREEN • BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + Formulated with a unique blend of 100 % Pure Aloe and Vitamin E , our Very Water Resistant Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + will leave your skin feeling soft and smooth while providing the sun protection your skin needs .
Formulated to provide UVA / UVB Protection .
For total sun care , apply our ultra - hydrating After Sun Lotion following prolonged exposure to the sun Shop • Browse • Learn • www . ArubaAloe . com Made in Aruba by Aruba Aloe Balm Inc .
P . O . Box 360 , Aruba Dutch Caribbean .
Distributed in the USA by Aruba Aloe of North America LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46244 .
Customer Inquiry Hotline : 1 - 800 - 95 - ARUBA .
This bottle contains 100 % post - consumer recycled plastic .
Please recycle .
Aruba Aloe products are not tested 8 . 5 oz ( 251 mL ) on animals .
Product Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
