Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Isostearyl isostearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Cyclohexasiloxane , Glyeryl stearate , Tribehenin , Cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Myristyl myristate , Rosa canina fruit oil , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Sodium lauroyl lactylate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Retinyl palmitate , Diospyros kaki calyx extract , Cholesterol , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Propylene glycol , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Ceramide 3 , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Ceramide 6 ll , Phytosphingosine , Tocopherol , Triethyl citrate , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Ceramide 1 , CI77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI14700 ( Red 4 ) The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . boots . com Description No7 Restore and Renew Anti - Ageing Skincare System With Face and Neck Multi Action Serum , clinically proven to deliver a firmer feeling , visibly smoother face and neck , for younger looking skin in just 2 weeks .
Description Youthful Vitality .
Discover No ' s Restore and Renew skincare range , now supercharged with our groundbreaking Restore & Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum .
No7 ' s first serum to deliver clinically proven results for both the face and neck .
Whilst laughter lines are a sign of a life well lived , as we age the exposed skin on both the face and neck becomes more fragil , less firm and has a more uneven texture .
Our Restore and Renew Skincare System works to address these key signs of ageing to help mature skinlook and feel like young skin again .
Formulated by No7 , leaders in anti - ageing skincare .
Serum Clinically proven to deliver 5 anti - ageing results : Face feels firmer , wrinkles are visbly reduced and skin tone is more even .
Neck feels firmer and looks visibly smoother and less crepey .
Powered by our advanced anti - wrinkle , firming and lightening complexes plus a unique skin fortifying complex of calcium , amino acids and ceramides .
After the first application face and neck feel smoother .
After 1 week face and neck look more radiant and feel firmer .
After 2 weeks face and neck look younger , revitalised and lifted .
No7 Serums are designed to be used underneath your moisturiser to deliver key benefits directly to the skin .
Day Cream Formulated with the protective power of Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 to help give your skin protection from the No 1 cause of visible skin ageing .
Created to provide day long hydration and help boost your skin ' s repair and recovery processes , strengthening its resilience to future dryness .
Our skin firming complex , containing a unique plant extract derived from the Persimmon Tree , works to boost your skin ' s vitlaity so that it behaves like younger skin .
The result is smoother , plumper looking skin that feels firmer and has a renewed healthy glow .
It is the perfect daytime partner to our Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum .
Night Cream Nourish and revitalise your skin with this replenishing night time formula .
Created to replenish lost lipids and help boost the skin ' s moisture barrier to rejuvenate the look of your skin overnight .
Works to help boost your skin ' s resilience to environmental stress , while our skin firming complex , containing a unique plant extract derived from the Persimmon Tree , works to boost your skin ' s vitality so that it behaves like younger skin .
The result is smoother , plumper looking skin that feels firmer .
It is the perfect night - time partner to our Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum .
For Best Results : After cleansing , smooth No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum onto your face and neck until fully absorbed .
In the morning , follow with the No7 Restore and Renew Day Cream .
At night , follow with No7 Restore and Renew Night Cream .
carton image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
