Active Ingredient Dexbrompheniramine Maleate 2 mg Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide 15 mg Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 7 . 5 mg Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hayfever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , watery eyes • cough due to minor throat and • bronchial irritation • nasal congestion • reduces swelling of nasal passages Purposes Antihistamine Cough Suppressant Nasal Decongestant Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Do not use this product if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional condition , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes mellitus Stop use and ask a doctor if  nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur  cough or nasal congestion persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
 new symptoms occur Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
When using this product  excitability may occur , especially in children  may cause marked drowsiness  avoid alcoholic drinks  alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect  be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use .
Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage Adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in 24 Children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 / 2 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 3 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor .
Other Information Store at 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Inactive Ingredients Anhydrous Citric Acid , Glycerin , Flavor , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Citrate Dihydrate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol Solution .
Questions ?
Comments ?
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Call 1 - 800 - 882 - 1041 Mon . - Fri . ( 8 a . m . to 5 p . m . CST ) .
Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
