Rx Only CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL THIS DRUG SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED BY ADEQUATELY TRAINED INDIVIDUALS FAMILIAR WITH ITS ACTIONS , CHARACTERISTICS , AND HAZARDS .
DESCRIPTION REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) is an active cholinesterase inhibitor chemically designated as 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethyl - carbamate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] REGONOL ® is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , nonpyrogenic solution for injection .
Each mL contains 5 mg of pyridostigmine bromide USP as active , 10 mg BENZYL ALCOHOL NF as preservative WHICH IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE IN NEWBORNS , 0 . 23 mg sodium citrate dihydrate USP and 0 . 1 mg anhydrous citric acid USP as buffering agent , pH adjusted with sodium hydroxide NF and anhydrous citric acid USP if necessary and water for injection USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) an analogue of neostigmine , facilitates the transmission of impulses across the myoneural junction by inhibiting the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase .
Currently available data indicate that pyridostigmine may have a significantly lower degree and incidence of bradycardia , salivation and gastrointestinal stimulation than does neostigmine .
Animal studies using the injectable form of pyridostigmine and human studies using the oral preparation have indicated that pyridostigmine has a longer duration of action than does neostigmine measured under similar circumstances .
1 , 2 REGONOL ® is effective in reversing the neuromuscular blocking effects of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants .
Anticholinesterase agents such as REGONOL ® and neostigmine may produce depolarization block when administered at doses above their recommended therapeutic ranges .
The therapeutic index of REGONOL ® ( ratio of reversal dose to blocking dose ) is approximately 1 : 6 ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
3 The antagonism of neuromuscular blockade by anticholinesterase agents may be influenced by the degree of spontaneous recovery achieved when the reversal agent is administered , by the particular relaxant administered , acid - base balance , body temperature , electrolyte imbalance , concomitant medications such as potent inhalational anesthetics , antibiotics or other drugs which enhance or antagonize the action of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants .
4 The use of peripheral nerve stimulation to determine the degree of neuromuscular blockade is recommended in evaluating the effects of the reversal agents .
Failure of anticholinesterase agents to produce prompt ( within 30 minutes ) reversal of neuromuscular blockade may occur in the presence of extreme debilitation , carcinomatosis , and with concomitant use of certain broad - spectrum antibiotics , or anesthetic agents and other drugs which enhance neuromuscular blockade or cause respiratory depression through their own pharmacologic actions .
As with other anticholinesterase agents , the administration of REGONOL ® may be associated with muscarinic and nicotinic side effects , notably bradycardia and excessive bronchial secretions ; the use of glycopyrrolate or atropine sulfate simultaneously with or prior to administration of REGONOL ® is recommended to counteract these side effects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
5 Pharmacokinetics It has been postulated that the clearance of pyridostigmine is almost equally dependent on metabolism and on urinary elimination of the unchanged drug .
6 Other studies in man indicated that approximately 75 percent of the plasma clearance of pyridostigmine is dependent on renal excretion and the remainder on nonrenal mechanisms .
7 INDICATIONS AND USAGE REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) is indicated as a reversal agent or antagonist to the neuromuscular blocking effects of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to anticholinesterase agents ; intestinal and urinary obstructions of mechanical type .
WARNINGS NOT FOR USE IN NEONATES REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) should be used with particular caution in patients with bronchial asthma or cardiac dysrhythmias .
Transient bradycardia may occur and be relieved by atropine sulfate .
Atropine sulfate should also be used with caution in patients with cardiac dysrhythmias .
When large doses of pyridostigmine bromide are administered , as during reversal of muscle relaxants , prior or simultaneous injection of atropine sulfate or an equipotent dose of glycopyrrolate is advisable .
Because of the possibility of hypersensitivity in an occasional patient , atropine and antishock medication should always be readily available .
When used as an antagonist to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants , adequate recovery of voluntary respiration and neuromuscular transmission must be obtained prior to discontinuation of respiratory assistance , and there should be continuous patient observation .
Satisfactory recovery may be judged by adequacy of skeletal muscle tone , respiratory measurements , and by observation of the response to peripheral nerve stimulation .
A patent airway should be maintained and manual or mechanical ventilation should be continued until complete recovery of normal respiration is assured .
Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity ( hypotension , metabolic acidosis ) , particularly in neonates , and an increased incidence of kernicterus , particularly in small preterm infants .
There have been rare reports of deaths , primarily in preterm infants , associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol .
The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol .
Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered .
The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative , the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
PRECAUTIONS THE USE OF A PERIPHERAL NERVE STIMULATOR TO MONITOR RECOVERY OF NEUROMUSCULAR FUNCTION WILL MINIMIZE THE POSSIBILITY OF EXCESS DOSING OR INADEQUATE REVERSAL .
Inadequate reversal of the neuromuscular blockade induced by nondepolarizing ( curariform ) muscle relaxants is possible .
This can be managed by manual or mechanical ventilation until recovery is judged adequate .
The administration of additional doses of anticholinesterase reversal agents is not recommended since excessive dosages of such drugs may produce depolarizing block through their own pharmacologic actions .
Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney .
2 , 7 , 8 Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect .
2 , 7 Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) and 4 - aminopyridine has been reported to delay the onset of action of REGONOL ® .
9 Antibiotics Parenteral administration of high doses of certain antibiotics may intensify or produce neuromuscular block through their own pharmacologic actions .
The following antibiotics have been associated with various degrees of paralysis : aminoglycosides ( such as neomycin , streptomycin , kanamycin , gentamicin , and dihydrostreptomycin ) ; tetracyclines ; bacitracin ; polymyxin B ; colistin ; and sodium colistimethate .
If these or other newly introduced antibiotics are used in conjunction with nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs during surgery , unexpected prolongation of neuromuscular block or resistance to its reversal should be considered a possibility .
Other Experience concerning injection of quinidine during recovery from use of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants suggest that recurrent paralysis may occur .
This possibility must be considered when administering anticholinesterase agents to antagonize neuromuscular blockade induced by nondepolarizing muscle relaxants .
Electrolyte imbalance and diseases which lead to electrolyte imbalance , such as adrenal cortical insufficiency , have been shown to alter neuromuscular blockade .
Depending on the nature of the imbalance , either enhancement or inhibition may be expected .
Magnesium salts , administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy , may enhance the neuromuscular blockade .
The possibility that such circumstances may interfere with the restoration of neuromuscular function should be considered when administering REGONOL ® .
Interactions with Laboratory Tests None known .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy It is not known whether REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
REGONOL ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if the administering clinician decides that the benefits outweigh the risks .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established .
Benzyl alcohol , a component of this drug product , has been associated with serious adverse events and death , particularly in pediatric patients .
The “ gasping syndrome ” , ( characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , gasping respirations , and high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine ) has been associated with benzyl alcohol dosages > 99 mg / kg / day in neonates and low - birth - weight neonates .
Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the “ gasping syndrome ” , the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birth - weight infants , as well as patients receiving high dosages , may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Practitioners administering this and other medications containing benzyl alcohol should consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of pyridostigmine bromide are most commonly related to overdosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis , and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation , and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
Thrombophlebitis has been reported subsequent to intravenous administration .
OVERDOSAGE THE POSSIBILITY OF IATROGENIC OVERDOSAGE CAN BE MINIMIZED BY CAREFULLY MONITORING THE MUSCLE TWITCH RESPONSE TO PERIPHERAL NERVE STIMULATION .
Should overdosage occur , ventilation should be supported by artificial means until the adequacy of spontaneous respiration is assured , and cardiac function should be monitored .
Respiratory depression following administration of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents may be due either wholly or in part to other drugs used during the conduct of general anesthesia , such as narcotics , thiobarbiturates and other central nervous system depressants .
A peripheral nerve stimulator may be used to assess the degree of residual neuromuscular blockade and to help differentiate residual neuromuscular blockade from other causes of decreased respiratory reserve .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) 2 mL single - dose ampule is for intravenous use only .
This drug should be administered by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians familiar with the use of agents which reverse or antagonize the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents .
Dosage must be individualized in each case .
The dosage information which follows is derived from studies based upon units of drug per unit of body weight and is intended to serve as a guide only .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
NOTE : CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL ( see PRECAUTIONS ) Reversal doses of REGONOL ® range from 0 . 1 to 0 . 25 mg / kg .
5 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 The onset time to peak effect is dose - dependent ; return of twitch height to 90 % of control occurs within approximately 6 minutes following administration of a 0 . 25 mg / kg dose of REGONOL ® .
5 , 12 At lower doses , full recovery usually occurs within 15 minutes in most patients , although others may require a half - hour or more .
When REGONOL ® is given intravenously to reverse the action of muscle relaxant drugs , it is recommended that atropine sulfate ( 0 . 6 to 1 . 2 mg ) or an equipotent dose of glycopyrrolate be given immediately prior to or simultaneously with the administration of REGONOL ® .
Side effects , notably excessive secretions and bradycardia are thereby minimized .
Please refer to the appropriate prescribing information prior to the use of glycopyrrolate or atropine sulfate .
To obtain maximum clinical benefits of REGONOL ® and to minimize the possibility of overdosage , the monitoring of muscle twitch response to peripheral nerve stimulation is advised .
REGONOL ® should be administered after spontaneous recovery of neuromuscular function has begun .
Satisfactory reversal can be evident by adequate voluntary respiration , respiratory measurements and use of a peripheral nerve stimulator device .
It is recommended that the patient be well - ventilated and a patent airway maintained until complete recovery of normal respiration is assured .
Once satisfactory reversal has been attained following administration of REGONOL ® , recurrence of paralysis is unlikely to occur .
Inadequate reversal of neuromuscular blockade by anticholinesterase drugs is possible with all curariform drugs , and is managed by manual or mechanical ventilation until recovery is judged adequate .
The administration of additional doses of anticholinesterase reversal agents is not recommended since excessive dosages of such drugs may produce depolarizing block through their own pharmacological actions .
Use in Pediatrics The safety and efficacy of REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection , USP ) in pediatric patients have not been established , therefore no dosing recommendations can be made ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED REGONOL ® ( pyridostigmine bromide injection USP ) for injection is available as 2 mL single - dose ampule containing 10 mg pyridostigmine bromide ( 5 mg / mL ) and supplied as : NDC 0781 - 3040 - 95 - box of 10 x 2 mL Single - Dose Ampules CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect from light .
REFERENCES • Baker PR , Calvey TN , Chan K , Macnee CM , Taylor K . Plasma clearance of neostigmine and pyridostigmine in the dog .
Br J Pharmacol 1978 ; 63 : 509 - 512 .
• Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB .
Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol & Ther 1980 ; 28 : 78 - 81 .
• Katz RL .
Pyridostigmine ( Mestinon ) as an antagonist of d - tubocurarine .
Anesthesiology 1967 ; 28 : 528 - 534 .
• Miller RD .
Antagonism of neuromuscular blockade .
Anesthesiology 1967 ; 44 : 318 - 329 .
• Gyermek L . Clinical studies on the reversal of the neuromuscular blockade produced by pancuronium bromide .
1 .
The effects of glycopyrrolate and pyridostigmine .
Curr Ther Res 1975 ; 18 : 20 - 23 .
• Williams ME , Calvey TN , Chan K . Plasma concentration of pyridostigmine during the antagonism of neuromuscular block .
Br J Anesth 1983 ; 55 : 27 - 30 .
• Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
In : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , eds . , Anaesthesiology , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica 1981 : 222 - 223 .
• Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM , Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther 1985 ; 5 : 494 - 501 .
• Miller RD , Booij LH , Agoston S , Crul JF .
4 - aminopyridine potentiates neostigmine and pyridostigmine in man .
Anesthesiology 1979 ; 50 : 416 - 420 .
• Gyermek L .
The Glycopyrrolate - Pyridostigmine Combination .
Anesthesiology Review 1978 ; 5 : 19 - 22 .
• Zsigmond EK .
New Safe and Effective Antagonist of Pancuronium Bromide : Pyridostigmine Bromide .
A Scientific Exhibit Presented at the American Medical Association Annual Convention in New York City , NY ; June 23 - 27 , 1973 .
• Rusin WD .
Comparison of Neostigmine and Pyridostigmine as Antagonists of Pancuronium Neuromuscular Blockade .
ASA Clinical Papers , 299 - 300 , 1976 .
• Katz R . Pyridostigmine as an Antagonist of d - Tubocurarine .
Anesthesiology 1967 ; 3 : 528 - 534 .
• Miller RD , Van Nyhuis LS , Eger EI , Vitez TS , Way WL .
Comparative Times to Peak Effect and Durations of Action of Neostigmine and Pyridostigmine .
Anesthesiology 1974 ; 41 : 27 - 33 .
• Fogdall RP , Miller RD .
Antagonism of d - Tubocurarine and Pancuronium Induced Neuromuscular Blockades by Pyridostigmine in Man .
Anesthesiology 1973 ; 39 : 504 - 509 .
Rev . April 2021 46277700 Distributed by Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Carton NDC 0781 - 3040 - 95 Regonol ® Contains Benzyl Alcohol .
Not for use in neonates .
( Pyridostigmine Bromide Injection , USP ) 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY Rx only Sterile 10 x 2 mL Single - Dose Ampules SANDOZ – A Novartis Division [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
