Drug Facts Active ingredients ( To Deliver ) Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • helps prevent most athlete ' s foot with daily use • for effective relief of itching , cracking , burning , scaling and discomfort Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
• do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks ; if condition persists longer , ask a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • in case of clogging , clean nozzle with a pin Other information • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Fragrance , Isobutane , PPG - 12 - Buteth - 16 , SD Alcohol 40 - B ( 10 . 5 % v / v ) , Talc Questions ?
866 - 360 - 3226 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 133 g Can Label NDC 11523 - 4162 - 1 TOUGH ACTIN ' ® Tinactin ® ANTIFUNGAL tolnaftate Cures and prevents most athlete ' s foot DEODORANT POWDER SPRAY fights odor all day Relieves itching & burning NET WT 133 g ( 4 . 6 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
