Ultrasal - ER ( 28 . 5 % Salicylic Acid Extended Release ) Antiviral Film - Forming Solution : Package Insert Rx only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION UltraSal - ER is a topical preparation containing 28 . 5 % salicylic acid extended release in a proprietary film - forming virucidal solution composed of acrylates copolymer , butyl acetate , carthamus tinctorius seed oil , cocamidopropyl dimethylamine , ethylhexylglycerin , isopropyl alcohol , isopropyl - metacresol , olea europaea fruit oil , phenic acid , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 80 , polyvinyl butyral , trimethyl pentanyl diisobutyrate , and water .
The pharmacologic activity of UltraSal - ER is generally attributed to the keratolytic activity of salicylic acid , which is incorporated into a polyacrylic , film - forming virucidal solution designed to cover the wart without the need for a bandage .
The structural formula of salicylic acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the exact mode of action for salicylic acid in the treatment of warts is unknown , its activity appears to be associated with its keratolytic action , which results in mechanical removal of epidermal cells infected with wart viruses .
UltraSal - ER incorporates a unique patented extended release form of salicylic acid that provides for enhanced release of salicylic acid for over 24 hours .
The virucidal complex incorporated into UltraSal - ER ’ s proprietary solution is designed to help reduce risk of reinfection at the wart site , as well as prevent viral contamination of the product under normal usage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE UltraSal - ER is indicated for the topical treatment and removal of common warts and plantar warts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with diabetes or impaired blood circulation should not use UltraSal - ER .
UltraSal - ER also should not be used on moles , birthmarks , and unusual warts with hair growing from them , or warts on the face .
PRECAUTIONS UltraSal - ER is for external use only .
Do not permit UltraSal - ER to contact eyes or mucous membranes .
If contact with eyes or mucous membranes occurs , immediately flush with water for 15 minutes .
UltraSal - ER should not be allowed to contact normal skin surrounding the wart site , since localized irritation may occur .
Treatment should be discontinued if excessive irritation occurs .
UltraSal - ER is flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Keep bottle tightly capped when not in use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A localized irritant reaction may occur if Ultrasal - ER is applied to the normal skin surrounding the wart .
Any irritation may normally be controlled by temporarily discontinuing use and by applying the medication only to the wart site when treatment is resumed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to applying UltraSal - ER , soak wart in warm water for five minutes .
Remove any loose tissue by gently rubbing with a washcloth , emery board , or pumice stone .
Dry the wart site thoroughly .
Using the brush applicator supplied , apply UltraSal - ER twice to the entire wart surface , allowing the first application to dry before applying the second .
Continue treatment once or twice a day as directed by your healthcare provider .
Be careful not to apply to surrounding skin .
Clinically visible improvement normally occurs during the first or second week of therapy .
Resolution may be expected after four to six weeks of UltraSal - ER use , though some warts may take longer to remove .
HOW SUPPLIED UltraSal - ER is supplied in 10 mL amber bottles with a brush applicator ( NDC 42783 - 323 - 10 ) .
Store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Elorac , Inc .
Vernon Hills , IL 60061 U . S . Patent No . 6 , 979 , 440 Additional Patent Pending © 2014 Elorac , Inc .
1 / 2014 211909 PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS Your health care provider has prescribed UltraSal - ER , a topical prescription preparation for the treatment of common warts and plantar warts .
In order for UltraSal - ER to work properly and to ensure maximum benefit , the following instructions should be followed carefully .
Of course , as with any medication , always consult your health care provider if you experience any discomfort or unexpected reactions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 1 WASH • Soak wart area in warm water for about 5 minutes .
• Remove any loose tissue using a washcloth , emery board , or pumice stone .
• Dry thoroughly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 2 BRUSH • Using the brush applicator supplied , apply twice to entire wart surface , allowing the first application to dry before applying the second .
• Be careful not to apply to surrounding skin .
• Leave UltraSal - ER on wart area after it dries .
Repeat Step 1 and Step 2 once or twice daily as advised by the health care provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinically visible improvement will normally occur during the first or second week of therapy .
Resolution may be expected after four to six weeks of UltraSal - ER use , though some warts may take longer to remove .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Vernon Hills , IL 60061 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ultrasal - ER ( 28 . 5 % Salicylic Acid Extended Release ) Antiviral Film - Forming Solution : Container Label Principal Display Panel NDC 42783 - 323 - 10 Ultrasal - ER ( 28 . 5 % Salicylic Acid Extended Release ) Antiviral Film - Forming Solution 1 / 3 fl .
oz .
( 10 mL ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ultrasal - ER ( 28 . 5 % Salicylic Acid Extended Release ) Antiviral Film - Forming Solution : Carton Label Principal Display Panel NDC 42783 - 323 - 10 Ultrasal - ER ( 28 . 5 % Salicylic Acid Extended Release ) Antiviral Film - Forming Solution 1 / 3 fl .
oz .
( 10 mL ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
