Active ingredient Purified water ( 99 . 05 % ) Purpose eyewash Uses washes the eye to help relieve • • irritation • • discomfort • • stinging • • itching by removing • • loose foreign material • • air pollutants ( smog or pollen ) • • chlorinated water Warnings Do not use • • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , and get medical help right away • • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product • • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • • remove contact lenses before using • • replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye • • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Bottle tip permits use with or without cup .
• • flush the affected eye ( s ) as needed • • control the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle When using an eye cup • • rinse the cup with Collyrium Eye Wash immediately before each use • • avoid contamination of the rim and inside surfaces of cup • • fill the cup half full with Collyrium Eye Wash and apply the cup to the affected eye ( s ) , pressing tightly to prevent spillage • • tilt the head backward .
Open eyelids wide and rotate eyeball to thoroughly wash the eye .
• • rinse cup with clean water after each use • • replace cap after use Other information • • store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) • • keep tightly closed • • does not contain thimerosal • • enclosed eyecup is sterile if packaging is intact • • use before expiration date marked on the carton or bottle Inactive ingredients Boric acid , sodium borate and sodium chloride .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Questions or comments ?
Toll Free Product Information or to Report a Serious Side Effect Associated with use of the product Call : 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 6574509 Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Soothing Collyrium for FRESH EYES EYE WASH • • Soothes • • Refreshes • • Cleanses Consumer Preferred Cup Design Convenient Sterile Eye Cup Enclosed Sterile 4 FL .
OZ .
( 118 mL ) Oversized Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ]
