Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) ) Purpose Codeine Phosphate 7 . 5 mg Antitussive Guaifenesin 225 mg Expectorant Uses • temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold or inhaled irritants • your cough to help you sleep • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and makes cough more productive .
Warnings Ask your doctor before use if • you have a persistent cough , this may be a sign of a serious condition • you have a persistent cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • you have a cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) • you have chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath • giving to a child who is taking other drugs When using this product • giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor could result in serious side effects for your child .
A special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age • may cause or aggravate constipation Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not improve within 7 days , tend to recur or are accompanied by fever and rash or persistent headache .
These may be symptoms of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 ½ tsp ( 7 . 5 mL ) every 4 - 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age ¾ tsp ( 3 . 75 mL ) every 4 - 6 hours Children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Other information Each teaspoonful contains 6 mg of sodium .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients Citric Acid , Flavors , Glycerin , Polyethylene Glycol , Povidone , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , and Sorbitol Distributed and Marketed By : Allegis Pharmaceuticals , LLC 276 Nissan Parkway , F100 Canton , MS 39046 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label MARNEL NDC 0682 - 0475 - 16 MAR - COF ® CG EXPECTORANT ANTITUSSIVE ( cough suppressant ) EXPECTORANT Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) for oral administration contains : Codeine Phosphate 7 . 5 mg Guaifenesin 225 mg Alcohol - Free / Sugar - Free TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use if imprinted safety seal under cap is broken or missing .
16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
