FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
Rx ONLY CROTAN ™ ( crotamiton USP 10 % ) is a scabicidal and antipruritic agent as a lotion for topical use only .
Crotamiton is a colorless to slightly yellowish oil , having a faint amine - like odor .
It is miscible with alcohol and with methanol .
Crotamiton is a mixture of the cis and trans isomers .
Its molecular weight is 203 .
28 .
Crotamiton is N - ethyl - N ( o - methyl - phenyl ) 2 - butenamide and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CROTAN lotion contains crotamiton USP 10 % ( 100 mg / ml ) in a creamy lotion base containing purified water , light mineral oil , propylene glycol , cetearyl alcohol ( and ) cetearth - 20 , cetyl alcohol , lanolin , benzyl alcohol , carbomer 971 P , sodium hydroxide with citric acid ( for pH adjustment ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : CROTAN ™ lotion has scabicial and antipruritic actions .
The mechanisms of these actions are not known .
The pharmacokinetics of crotamiton and its degree of systemic absorption following topical application have not been determined .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies with CROTAN ( crotamiton USP ) lotion did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but great sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Primary inrritation reactions such as dermititis , pruritus and rash , and allergic sensitivity reactions have been reported in a few patients .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Marnel Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 888 - 850 - 2905 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : There is no specific informaton on the effect of overtreatment with repeated topical applications in humans .
A death was reported but cause was not confirmed .
Accidental oral ingestion may be accompanied by burning sensation in the mouth , irritation of the buccal , esophageal and gastric mucosa , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain .
If accidental ingestion occurs , call your Poison Control Center .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE .
In Scabies : Thoroughly massage into the skin of the whole body , from the chin down , paying particular attention to all folds and creases .
A second application is advisable 24 hours later .
Clothing and bed linen should be changed the next morning .
A cleansing bath should be taken 48 hours after the last application .
In Pruritis : Massage gently into affected areas until medication is completely absorbed .
Repeat as needed .
DIRECTIONS FOR PATIENTS WITH SCABIES : 1 .
Take a routine bath or shower .
Thoroughly massage CROTAN ™ lotion into the skin from the chin to the toes including folds and creases .
2 .
Put CROTAN lotion under fingernails after trimming the fingernails short , because scabies are likely to remain there .
A toothbrush can be used to apply the CROTAN lotion under the fingernails .
Immediately after use , the toothbrush should be wrapped in paper and thrown away .
Use of the brush in the mouth could lead to lead poisoning .
3 .
A second application is advisable 24 hours leater .
4 .
Clothing and bed linen should be changed the next day .
Contaminated clothing and bed linen may be dry - cleaned or washed in the hot cycle of the washing machine .
5 .
A cleansing bath should be taken 48 hours after the last application .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For eradication of scabies ( Sarcoptes scabiei ) and for symptomatic treatment of pruritic skin .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : CROTAN lotion should not be applied topically to patients who develop a sensitivity or are allergic to it or who manifest a primary irritation response to topical medications .
WARNINGS : If severe irritation or sensitization develops , treatment with this product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
P RECAUTIONS : General : CROTAN lotion should not be applied in the eyes or mouth because it may cause irritation .
It should not be applied to acutely inflamed skin or raw or weeping surfaces until acute inflammation has subsided .
Information for Patients : See " DIRECTIONS FOR PATIENTS WITH SCABIES . "
Drug Interactions : None known .
Carcinogenesis , Mutangenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been conducted .
Pregnancy ( Category C ) : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with CROTAN ( crotamiton USP ) lotion .
It is also not known whether CROTAN can cause fetal harm when applied to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
CROTAN should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED : CROTAN ( crotamitan USP ) lotion , 10 % is available in : 2 fl oz ( NDC 0682 - 0051 - 20 ) 8 fl oz ( NDC 0682 - 0051 - 10 ) 16 lf oz ( NDC 0682 - 0051 - 30 ) KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
STORAGE : Store 20 ° to 25 ºC ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions allowed between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
