Drug Facts ACTIVE INGREDIENT Miconazole Nitrate USP 2 % PURPOSE Antifungal INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Cetostearyl alcohol , Cetomacrogol 1000 , Paraffin wax , Microcrystalline wax , Light liquid paraffin , Polyethylene Glycol , Chlorocresol and purified water USES • Effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • For effective relief of itching , scaling , cracking , burning and discomfort that can accompany these conditions .
WARNINGS For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation occurs • Condition persists • There is no improvement of athlete ' s foot or ringworm within 4 weeks or jock itch within 2 weeks .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • Supervise children in the use of this product • For athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • For athlete ' s foot and ringworm : use daily for 4 weeks .
• For jock itch : use daily for 2 weeks • Not effective on the scalp or nails OTHER INFORMATION • Do not use if seal is damaged or is not visible • To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • store at temperature not exceeding 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
• see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 572 - 6632 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
ANTI - FUNGAL CREAM Manufactured by : Global pharma Healthcare Pvt . Ltd . , A - 9 , SIDCO Pharmaceutical Complex , Alathur - 603 110 - INDIA .
www . global - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
