LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION , USP INTRAVENOUS FOR CARDIAC ARRHYTHMIAS DESCRIPTION Lidocaine hydrochloride , chemical name : acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , monohydrochloride has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP intravenous for cardiac arrhythmias , is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution prepared from lidocaine with the aid of hydrochloric acid in Water for Injection .
Each mL contains : Lidocaine HCl 20 mg ; Sodium Chloride 6 mg ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( pH 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
The container is for single use ; solution contains no preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Lidocaine hydrochloride exerts its antiarrhythmic effect by raising the electrical stimulation threshold of the ventricle during diastole .
In usual therapeutic doses , lidocaine hydrochloride produces no change in myocardial contractility , systemic arterial pressure or in absolute refractory period .
Onset of action is rapid after an intravenous bolus with a duration of action of approximately 15 to 20 minutes .
Approximately 90 % of an administered dose of lidocaine hydrochloride is metabolized in the liver .
The remainder ( 10 % ) of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Pharmacokinetic data indicate reduced elimination of lidocaine after prolonged ( 24 hours ) infusion with resultant prolongation of the half - life to approximately three times that seen following a single administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP administered intravenously is specifically indicated in the acute management of 1 ) ventricular arrhythmias occurring during cardiac manipulation such as cardiac surgery , and 2 ) life - threatening arrhythmias , particularly those which are ventricular in origin , such as those which occur during acute myocardial infarction .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP should not be used in patients with STOKES - ADAMS syndrome , Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome , or with severe degrees of sinoatrial , atrioventricular or intraventricular block .
WARNINGS Constant monitoring of the electrocardiogram and blood pressure is essential in the proper administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP intravenously .
If hypotension or excessive depression of cardiac conductivity ( such as prolongation of the PR interval and QRS complex and the appearance of aggravation of arrhythmias ) is seen , administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP should be discontinued .
Emergency resuscitative equipment and drugs must be immediately available to manage possible adverse reactions involving the cardiovascular , respiratory , or central nervous system .
Occasional acceleration of ventricular rate may occur when Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is administered to patients with atrial fibrillation .
Toxicity may be manifest as central nervous system depression ( sedation ) or irritability ( twitching ) , which may progress to frank convulsions accompanied by respiratory depression and / or arrest .
Early recognition of premonitory signs , assurance of adequate oxygenation and ( where necessary ) establishment of artificial airway with ventilatory support are essential to management of the problem .
Should convulsions persist despite ventilatory support , small doses of anticonvulsant drugs may be used intravenously .
Examples of such drugs include benzodiazepines ( e . g . , diazepam , lorazepam ) , or an ultrashort acting barbiturate ( e . g . , thiopental or thiamylal ) .
If the patient is under anesthesia , a short - acting muscle relaxant ( succinylcholine ) may be used .
Longer acting drugs should be used only when recurrent convulsions are evidenced .
PRECAUTIONS The safe use of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP requires careful ECG observation in an environment equipped and by persons trained for resuscitation .
General Caution should be employed in the repeated use of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP in patients with severe liver or renal disease because accumulation may occur and lead to toxic phenomena since Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is metabolized mainly in the liver and excreted by the kidneys .
This drug should also be used with caution in patients with hypovolemia and shock and all forms of heart block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
In patients with sinus bradycardia or incomplete heart block , the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP intravenously or the elimination of ventricular ectopic beats without prior acceleration in heart rate may promote more frequent and serious ventricular arrhythmias or complete heart block .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Many potent anesthetic drugs , neuromuscular blocking agents and possibly amide local anesthetics may serve as triggering agents for the fulminant hypermetabolic process termed malignant hyperthermia .
Key to successful outcome of fulminant hypermetabolism is early recognition of premonitory signs , i . e . , unexplained or unexpected tachycardia and increased metabolic rate as evidenced by respiratory and / or metabolic acidosis .
Treatment includes administration of oxygen and discontinuation of lidocaine hydrochloride administration and where necessary administration of dantrolene sodium .
For additional information on management , see prescribing information for dantrolene sodium .
Drug Interaction The effect of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP for the management of cardiac arrhythmias is potentiated with the simultaneous or prior administration of propranolol .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP should be used with caution in patients with digitalis toxicity accompanied by atrioventricular block .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Drug interaction was studied with several beta - blockers ( propranolol , metoprolol , nadolol , and pindolol ) .
Pretreatment with propranolol , metoprolol and nadolol increased the serum concentration of lidocaine .
Pretreatment with pindolol did not affect the serum concentration of lidocaine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Pregnancy Category B Reproductive studies have been performed in the rat at doses up to 5 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery The effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP solution on the mother and the fetus , when used in the management of cardiac arrhythmias during labor and delivery , are not known .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP readily crosses the placental barrier .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established by controlled clinical studies .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Most adverse reactions accompanying administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP result from systemic toxicity affecting primarily the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system .
Systemic reactions of the following types have been reported : 1 .
Central Nervous System Light - headedness ; drowsiness ; dizziness ; apprehension ; euphoria ; tinnitus ; blurred vision or double vision ; vomiting ; sensations of heat ; cold or numbness ; twitching ; tremors ; convulsions ; unconsciousness ; respiratory depression and arrest .
2 .
Cardiovascular System Hypotension ; cardiovascular collapse ; and bradycardia which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Continuous monitoring of blood pressure and the electrocardiogram are essential to prevent these events .
3 .
Allergic reactions may occur but are infrequent .
There have been no reports of cross - sensitivity between lidocaine hydrochloride and procainamide or between lidocaine and quinidine .
OVERDOSAGE Management of Adverse Reactions — • In the case of severe reaction , discontinue the use of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP .
• Institute emergency resuscitative procedures and administer the emergency drugs necessary to manage the severe reaction .
For severe convulsions , small increments of diazepam or an ultra short - acting barbiturate ( thiopental or thiamylal ) ; or if those are not available a short - acting barbiturate ( pentobarbital or secobarbital ) ; or if the patient is under anesthesia , a short - acting muscle relaxant ( succinylcholine ) may be given intravenously .
Muscle relaxants and intravenous medications should only be used by those familiar with their use .
Patency of the airway and adequacy of ventilation must be assured .
( See WARNINGS . )
• Should circulatory depression occur , vasopressors , such as ephedrine , or meta raminol may be used .
Should cardiac arrest occur , immediate initiation of standard CPR procedures should commence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult For Direct Injection – The usual dose is 50 to 100 mg administered intravenously under ECG monitoring .
This dose may be administered at the rate of approximately 25 to 50 mg / min .
Sufficient time should be allowed to enable a slow circulation to carry the drug to the site of action .
If the initial injection of 50 to 100 mg does not produce a desired response , a second dose may be repeated after 5 minutes .
NO MORE THAN 200 TO 300 MG OF LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION , USP SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED DURING A ONE HOUR PERIOD .
This product is for DIRECT INJECTION ONLY .
For continuous infusion protocol , see prescribing information for lidocaine hydrochloride , USP for infusion solution .
Pediatric Although controlled clinical studies to establish pediatric dosing schedules have not been conducted , the American Heart Association ’ s Standards and Guidelines recommends a bolus dose of 1 mg / kg followed by an infusion rate of 30 mcg / kg / min .
This product is for DIRECT INJECTION ONLY .
For continuous infusion protocol , see prescribing information for lidocaine hydrochloride , USP for infusion solution .
Sterilization , Storage and Technical Procedures It is recommended that chemical disinfection be accomplished by wiping the vial thoroughly with cotton or gauze that has been moistened with either 91 % isopropyl alcohol or 70 % ethyl alcohol , just prior to use .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED : For Direct Injection Only Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP Product Code Unit of Sale Strength Each 20805 NDC 63323 - 208 - 05 Unit of 25 2 % 100 mg per 5 mL ( 20 mg per mL ) NDC 63323 - 208 - 01 5 mL Single Dose Vial Preservative Free Discard Unused Portion .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 45775 D Revised : May 2022 Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Prep Pads Active ingredient Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Uses For first aid to decrease germs in • minor cuts • scrapes • burns For preparation of the skin prior to injection Warnings For external use only Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use with electrocautery procedures When using this product do not • get into eyes • apply over large areas of the body • in case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns consult a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition persists or gets worse or lasts for more than 72 hours • do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply to skin as needed • discard after single use Other information Protect from freezing and avoid excessive heat Inactive ingredient Water PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC : 76420 - 306 - 01 Rx Only Hyronan ™ Kit Contains 1 1 % Sodium Hyaluronate Injection ( 2 mL ) 1 Lidocaine HCI Injection , USP 2 % ( 5 mL ) 2 Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Prep Pads 1 Pair Nitrile Powder Free Sterile Gloves ( M ) 1 Adhesive Bandage 5 Non Sterile 4x4 Gauze Needles and Syringes Not Included 1 Dose Single Use Only Distributed by Enovachem ™ PHARMACEUTICALS Torrance , CA 90501 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
