DESCRIPTION CLARINEX ( desloratadine ) Tablets are light blue , round , film coated tablets containing 5 mg desloratadine , an antihistamine , to be administered orally .
It also contains the following excipients : dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , corn starch NF , talc USP , carnauba wax NF , white wax NF , coating material consisting of lactose monohydrate , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , and FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake .
CLARINEX Syrup is a clear orange colored liquid containing 0 . 5 mg / 1 mL desloratadine .
The syrup contains the following inactive ingredients : propylene glycol USP , sorbitol solution USP , citric acid ( anhydrous ) USP , sodium citrate dihydrate USP , sodium benzoate NF , disodium edetate USP , purified water USP .
It also contains granulated sugar , natural and artificial flavor for bubble gum and FD & C Yellow # 6 dye .
The CLARINEX RediTabs ® brand of desloratadine orally - disintegrating tablets are light red , flat - faced , round , speckled tablets with an " A " debossed on one side for the 5 mg tablets and a " K " debossed on one side for the 2 . 5 mg tablets .
Each RediTabs Tablet contains either 5 mg or 2 . 5 mg of desloratadine .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : mannitol USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , pregelatinized starch , NF , sodium starch glycolate , NF , magnesium stearate NF , butylated methacrylate copolymer , crospovidone , NF , aspartame NF , citric acid USP , sodium bicarbonate USP , colloidal silicon dioxide , NF , ferric oxide red NF and tutti frutti flavoring .
Desloratadine is a white to off - white powder that is slightly soluble in water , but very soluble in ethanol and propylene glycol .
It has an empirical formula : C19H19ClN2 and a molecular weight of 310 . 8 .
The chemical name is 8 - chloro - 6 , 11 - dihydro - 11 - ( 4 - piperdinylidene ) - 5 H - benzo [ 5 , 6 ] cyclohepta [ 1 , 2 - b ] pyridine and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of ActionDesloratadine is a long - acting tricyclic histamine antagonist with selective H1 - receptor histamine antagonist activity .
Receptor binding data indicate that at a concentration of 2 – 3 ng / mL ( 7 nanomolar ) , desloratadine shows significant interaction with the human histamine H1 - receptor .
Desloratadine inhibited histamine release from human mast cells in vitro .
Results of a radiolabeled tissue distribution study in rats and a radioligand H1 - receptor binding study in guinea pigs showed that desloratadine did not readily cross the blood brain barrier .
PharmacokineticsAbsorptionFollowing oral administration of desloratadine 5 mg once daily for 10 days to normal healthy volunteers , the mean time to maximum plasma concentrations ( Tmax ) occurred at approximately 3 hours post dose and mean steady state peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of 4 ng / mL and 56 . 9 ng ∙ hr / mL were observed , respectively .
Neither food nor grapefruit juice had an effect on the bioavailability ( Cmax and AUC ) of desloratadine .
The pharmacokinetic profile of CLARINEX Syrup was evaluated in a three - way crossover study in 30 adult volunteers .
A single dose of 10 mL of CLARINEX Syrup containing 5 mg of desloratadine was bioequivalent to a single dose of 5 mg CLARINEX Tablet .
Food had no effect on the bioavailability ( AUC and Cmax ) of CLARINEX Syrup .
The pharmacokinetic profile of CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets was evaluated in a three - way crossover study in 24 adult volunteers .
A single CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet containing 5 mg of desloratadine was bioequivalent to a single 5 mg CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet ( original formulation ) for both desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine .
Water had no effect on the bioavailability ( AUC and Cmax ) of CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets .
DistributionDesloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine are approximately 82 % to 87 % and 85 % to 89 % , bound to plasma proteins , respectively .
Protein binding of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine was unaltered in subjects with impaired renal function .
MetabolismDesloratadine ( a major metabolite of loratadine ) is extensively metabolized to 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , an active metabolite , which is subsequently glucuronidated .
The enzyme ( s ) responsible for the formation of 3 - hydroxydesloratadine have not been identified .
Data from clinical trials indicate that a subset of the general population has a decreased ability to form 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , and are poor metabolizers of desloratadine .
In pharmacokinetic studies ( n = 3748 ) , approximately 6 % of subjects were poor metabolizers of desloratadine ( defined as a subject with an AUC ratio of 3 - hydroxydesloratadine to desloratadine less than 0 . 1 , or a subject with a desloratadine half - life exceeding 50 hours ) .
These pharmacokinetic studies included subjects between the ages of 2 and 70 years , including 977 subjects aged 2 – 5 years , 1575 subjects aged 6 – 11 years , and 1196 subjects aged 12 – 70 years .
There was no difference in the prevalence of poor metabolizers across age groups .
The frequency of poor metabolizers was higher in Blacks ( 17 % , n = 988 ) as compared to Caucasians ( 2 % , n = 1462 ) and Hispanics ( 2 % , n = 1063 ) .
The median exposure ( AUC ) to desloratadine in the poor metabolizers was approximately 6 - fold greater than in the subjects who are not poor metabolizers .
Subjects who are poor metabolizers of desloratadine cannot be prospectively identified and will be exposed to higher levels of desloratadine following dosing with the recommended dose of desloratadine .
In multidose clinical safety studies , where metabolizer status was identified , a total of 94 poor metabolizers and 123 normal metabolizers were enrolled and treated with CLARINEX Syrup for 15 – 35 days .
In these studies , no overall differences in safety were observed between poor metabolizers and normal metabolizers .
Although not seen in these studies , an increased risk of exposure - related adverse events in patients who are poor metabolizers cannot be ruled out .
EliminationThe mean elimination half - life of desloratadine was 27 hours .
Cmax and AUC values increased in a dose proportional manner following single oral doses between 5 and 20 mg .
The degree of accumulation after 14 days of dosing was consistent with the half - life and dosing frequency .
A human mass balance study documented a recovery of approximately 87 % of the 14 C - desloratadine dose , which was equally distributed in urine and feces as metabolic products .
Analysis of plasma 3 - hydroxydesloratadine showed similar Tmax and half - life values compared to desloratadine .
Special PopulationsGeriatricIn older subjects ( > 65 years old ; n = 17 ) following multiple - dose administration of CLARINEX Tablets , the mean Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 20 % greater than in younger subjects ( < 65 years old ) .
The oral total body clearance ( CL / F ) when normalized for body weight was similar between the two age groups .
The mean plasma elimination half - life of desloratadine was 33 . 7 hr in subjects > 65 years old .
The pharmacokinetics for 3 - hydroxydesloratadine appeared unchanged in older versus younger subjects .
These age - related differences are unlikely to be clinically relevant and no dosage adjustment is recommended in elderly subjects .
Pediatric SubjectsIn subjects 6 to 11 years old , a single dose of 5 mL of CLARINEX Syrup containing 2 . 5 mg of desloratadine resulted in desloratadine plasma concentrations similar to those achieved in adults administered a single 5 mg CLARINEX Tablet .
In subjects 2 to 5 years old , a single dose of 2 . 5 mL of CLARINEX Syrup containing 1 . 25 mg of desloratadine resulted in desloratadine plasma concentrations similar to those achieved in adults administered a single 5 mg CLARINEX Tablet .
However , the Cmax and AUCt of the metabolite ( 3 - OH desloratadine ) were 1 . 27 and 1 . 61 times higher for the 5 mg dose of syrup administered in adults compared to the Cmax and AUCt obtained in children 2 – 11 years of age receiving 1 . 25 – 2 . 5 mg of CLARINEX Syrup .
A single dose of either 2 . 5 mL or 1 . 25 mL of CLARINEX Syrup containing 1 . 25 mg or 0 . 625 mg , respectively , of desloratadine was administered to subjects 6 to 11 months of age and 12 to 23 months of age .
The results of a population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that a dose of 1 mg for subjects aged 6 to 11 months and 1 . 25 mg for subjects 12 to 23 months of age is required to obtain desloratadine plasma concentrations similar to those achieved in adults administered a single 5 mg dose of CLARINEX Syrup .
The CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet 2 . 5 mg tablet has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Bioequivalence of the CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet and the original CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets was established in adults .
In conjunction with the dose finding studies in pediatrics described , the pharmacokinetic data for CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet supports the use of the 2 . 5 mg dose strength in pediatric patients 6 – 11 years of age .
Renally ImpairedDesloratadine pharmacokinetics following a single dose of 7 . 5 mg were characterized in patients with mild ( n = 7 ; creatinine clearance 51 – 69 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , moderate ( n = 6 ; creatinine clearance 34 – 43 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , and severe ( n = 6 ; creatinine clearance 5 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment or hemodialysis - dependent ( n = 6 ) patients .
In patients with mild and moderate renal impairment , median Cmax and AUC values increased by approximately 1 . 2 - and 1 . 9 - fold , respectively , relative to subjects with normal renal function .
In patients with severe renal impairment or who were hemodialysis dependent , Cmax and AUC values increased by approximately 1 . 7 - and 2 . 5 - fold , respectively .
Minimal changes in 3 - hydroxydesloratadine concentrations were observed .
Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine were poorly removed by hemodialysis .
Plasma protein binding of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine was unaltered by renal impairment .
Dosage adjustment for patients with renal impairment is recommended ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Hepatically ImpairedDesloratadine pharmacokinetics were characterized following a single oral dose in patients with mild ( n = 4 ) , moderate ( n = 4 ) , and severe ( n = 4 ) hepatic impairment as defined by the Child - Pugh classification of hepatic function and 8 subjects with normal hepatic function .
Patients with hepatic impairment , regardless of severity , had approximately a 2 . 4 - fold increase in AUC as compared with normal subjects .
The apparent oral clearance of desloratadine in patients with mild , moderate , and severe hepatic impairment was 37 % , 36 % , and 28 % of that in normal subjects , respectively .
An increase in the mean elimination half - life of desloratadine in patients with hepatic impairment was observed .
For 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , the mean Cmax and AUC values for patients with hepatic impairment were not statistically significantly different from subjects with normal hepatic function .
Dosage adjustment for patients with hepatic impairment is recommended ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
GenderFemale subjects treated for 14 days with CLARINEX Tablets had 10 % and 3 % higher desloratadine Cmax and AUC values , respectively , compared with male subjects .
The 3 - hydroxydesloratadine Cmax and AUC values were also increased by 45 % and 48 % , respectively , in females compared with males .
However , these apparent differences are not likely to be clinically relevant and therefore no dosage adjustment is recommended .
RaceFollowing 14 days of treatment with CLARINEX Tablets , the Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 18 % and 32 % higher , respectively , in Blacks compared with Caucasians .
For 3 - hydroxydesloratadine there was a corresponding 10 % reduction in Cmax and AUC values in Blacks compared to Caucasians .
These differences are not likely to be clinically relevant and therefore no dose adjustment is recommended .
Drug InteractionsIn two controlled crossover clinical pharmacology studies in healthy male ( n = 12 in each study ) and female ( n = 12 in each study ) volunteers , desloratadine 7 . 5 mg ( 1 . 5 times the daily dose ) once daily was coadministered with erythromycin 500 mg every 8 hours or ketoconazole 200 mg every 12 hours for 10 days .
In three separate controlled , parallel group clinical pharmacology studies , desloratadine at the clinical dose of 5 mg has been coadministered with azithromycin 500 mg followed by 250 mg once daily for 4 days ( n = 18 ) or with fluoxetine 20 mg once daily for 7 days after a 23 - day pretreatment period with fluoxetine ( n = 18 ) or with cimetidine 600 mg every 12 hours for 14 days ( n = 18 ) under steady state conditions to normal healthy male and female volunteers .
Although increased plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC 0 – 24 hrs ) of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine were observed ( see Table 1 ) , there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine , as assessed by electrocardiographic parameters ( including the corrected QT interval ) , clinical laboratory tests , vital signs , and adverse events .
Table 1 Changes in Desloratadine and 3 - Hydroxydesloratadine Pharmacokinetics in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers Desloratadine 3 - Hydroxydesloratadine Cmax AUC 0 – 24 hrs Cmax AUC 0 – 24 hrs Erythromycin ( 500 mg Q8h ) + 24 % + 14 % + 43 % + 40 % Ketoconazole ( 200 mg Q12h ) + 45 % + 39 % + 43 % + 72 % Azithromycin ( 500 mg day 1 , 250 mg QD × 4 days ) + 15 % + 5 % + 15 % + 4 % Fluoxetine ( 20 mg QD ) + 15 % + 0 % + 17 % + 13 % Cimetidine ( 600 mg Q12h ) + 12 % + 19 % - 11 % - 3 % PharmacodynamicsWheal and FlareHuman histamine skin wheal studies following single and repeated 5 mg doses of desloratadine have shown that the drug exhibits an antihistaminic effect by 1 hour ; this activity may persist for as long as 24 hours .
There was no evidence of histamine - induced skin wheal tachyphylaxis within the desloratadine 5 mg group over the 28 - day treatment period .
The clinical relevance of histamine wheal skin testing is unknown .
Effects on QTcSingle dose administration of desloratadine did not alter the corrected QT interval ( QTc ) in rats ( up to 12 mg / kg , oral ) , or guinea pigs ( 25 mg / kg , intravenous ) .
Repeated oral administration at doses up to 24 mg / kg for durations up to 3 months in monkeys did not alter the QTc at an estimated desloratadine exposure ( AUC ) that was approximately 955 times the mean AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose .
See OVERDOSAGE section for information on human QTc experience .
Clinical TrialsSeasonal Allergic RhinitisThe clinical efficacy and safety of CLARINEX Tablets were evaluated in over 2 , 300 patients 12 to 75 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
A total of 1 , 838 patients received 2 . 5 – 20 mg / day of CLARINEX in four double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials of 2 to 4 weeks ' duration conducted in the United States .
The results of these studies demonstrated the efficacy and safety of CLARINEX 5 mg in the treatment of adult and adolescent patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
In a dose ranging trial , CLARINEX 2 . 5 – 20 mg / day was studied .
Doses of 5 , 7 . 5 , 10 , and 20 mg / day were superior to placebo ; and no additional benefit was seen at doses above 5 . 0 mg .
In the same study , an increase in the incidence of somnolence was observed at doses of 10 mg / day and 20 mg / day ( 5 . 2 % and 7 . 6 % , respectively ) , compared to placebo ( 2 . 3 % ) .
In two 4 - week studies of 924 patients ( aged 15 to 75 years ) with seasonal allergic rhinitis and concomitant asthma , CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily improved rhinitis symptoms , with no decrease in pulmonary function .
This supports the safety of administering CLARINEX Tablets to adult patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis with mild to moderate asthma .
CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily significantly reduced the Total Symptom Scores ( the sum of individual scores of nasal and non - nasal symptoms ) in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
See Table 2 .
Table 2 TOTAL SYMPTOM SCORE ( TSS ) Changes in a 2 - Week Clinical Trial in Patients with Seasonal Allergic RhinitisTreatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline * ( sem ) Change from Baseline † ( sem ) Placebo Comparison ( P - value ) CLARINEX 5 . 0 mg ( 171 ) 14 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) - 4 . 3 ( 0 . 3 ) P < 0 . 01 Placebo ( 173 ) 13 . 7 ( 0 . 3 ) - 2 . 5 ( 0 . 3 ) * At baseline , a total nasal symptom score ( sum of 4 individual symptoms ) of at least 6 and a total non - nasal symptom score ( sum of 4 individual symptoms ) of at least 5 ( each symptom scored 0 to 3 where 0 = no symptom and 3 = severe symptoms ) was required for trial eligibility .
TSS ranges from 0 = no symptoms to 24 = maximal symptoms .
† Mean reduction in TSS averaged over the 2 - week treatment period .
There were no significant differences in the effectiveness of CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg across subgroups of patients defined by gender , age , or race .
Perennial Allergic RhinitisThe clinical efficacy and safety of CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg were evaluated in over 1 , 300 patients 12 to 80 years of age with perennial allergic rhinitis .
A total of 685 patients received 5 mg / day of CLARINEX in two double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials of 4 weeks ' duration conducted in the United States and internationally .
In one of these studies CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily was shown to significantly reduce symptoms of perennial allergic rhinitis ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 TOTAL SYMPTOM SCORE ( TSS ) Changes in a 4 - Week Clinical Trial in Patients with Perennial Allergic RhinitisTreatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline * ( sem ) Change from Baseline † ( sem ) Placebo Comparison ( P - value ) CLARINEX 5 . 0 mg ( 337 ) 12 . 37 ( 0 . 18 ) - 4 . 06 ( 0 . 21 ) P = 0 . 01 Placebo ( 337 ) 12 . 30 ( 0 . 18 ) - 3 . 27 ( 0 . 21 ) * At baseline , average of total symptom score ( sum of 5 individual nasal symptoms and 3 non - nasal symptoms , each symptom scored 0 to 3 where 0 = no symptom and 3 = severe symptoms ) of at least 10 was required for trial eligibility .
TSS ranges from 0 = no symptoms to 24 = maximal symptoms .
† Mean reduction in TSS averaged over the 4 - week treatment period .
Chronic Idiopathic UrticariaThe efficacy and safety of CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily was studied in 416 chronic idiopathic urticaria patients 12 to 84 years of age , of whom 211 received CLARINEX .
In two double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized clinical trials of six weeks ' duration , at the pre - specified one - week primary time point evaluation , CLARINEX Tablets significantly reduced the severity of pruritus when compared to placebo ( Table 4 ) .
Secondary endpoints were also evaluated and during the first week of therapy CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg reduced the secondary endpoints , " Number of Hives " and the " Size of the Largest Hive , " when compared to placebo .
Table 4 PRURITUS SYMPTOM SCORE Changes in the First Week of a Clinical Trial in Patients with Chronic Idiopathic UrticariaTreatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline ( sem ) Change from Baseline * ( sem ) Placebo Comparison ( P - value ) CLARINEX 5 . 0 mg ( 115 ) 2 . 19 ( 0 . 04 ) - 1 . 05 ( 0 . 07 ) P < 0 . 01 Placebo ( 110 ) 2 . 21 ( 0 . 04 ) - 0 . 52 ( 0 . 07 ) Pruritus scored 0 to 3 where 0 = no symptom to 3 = maximal symptom .
* Mean reduction in pruritus averaged over the first week of treatment .
The clinical safety of CLARINEX Syrup was documented in three , 15 - day , double - blind , placebo - controlled safety studies in pediatric subjects with a documented history of allergic rhinitis , chronic idiopathic urticaria , or subjects who were candidates for antihistamine therapy .
In the first study , 2 . 5 mg of CLARINEX Syrup was administered to 60 pediatric subjects 6 to 11 years of age .
The second study evaluated 1 . 25 mg of CLARINEX Syrup administered to 55 pediatric subjects 2 to 5 years of age .
In the third study , 1 . 25 mg of CLARINEX Syrup was administered to 65 pediatric subjects 12 to 23 months of age and 1 . 0 mg of CLARINEX Syrup was administered to 66 pediatric subjects 6 to 11 months of age .
The results of these studies demonstrated the safety of CLARINEX Syrup in pediatric subjects 6 months to 11 years of age .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seasonal Allergic RhinitisCLARINEX is indicated for the relief of the nasal and non - nasal symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older .
Perennial Allergic RhinitisCLARINEX is indicated for the relief of the nasal and non - nasal symptoms of perennial allergic rhinitis in patients 6 months of age and older .
Chronic Idiopathic UrticariaCLARINEX is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pruritus , reduction in the number of hives , and size of hives , in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria 6 months of age and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this medication or to any of its ingredients , or to loratadine .
PRECAUTIONS Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThe carcinogenic potential of desloratadine was assessed using a loratadine study in rats and a desloratadine study in mice .
In a 2 - year study in rats , loratadine was administered in the diet at doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 30 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
A significantly higher incidence of hepatocellular tumors ( combined adenomas and carcinomas ) was observed in males given 10 mg / kg / day of loratadine and in males and females given 25 mg / kg / day of loratadine .
The estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures in rats given 10 mg / kg of loratadine were approximately 7 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose .
The clinical significance of these findings during long - term use of desloratadine is not known .
In a 2 - year dietary study in mice , males and females given up to 16 mg / kg / day and 32 mg / kg / day desloratadine , respectively , did not show significant increases in the incidence of any tumors .
The estimated desloratadine and metabolite exposures in mice at these doses were 12 and 27 times , respectively , the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose .
In genotoxicity studies with desloratadine , there was no evidence of genotoxic potential in a reverse mutation assay ( Salmonella / E .
coli mammalian microsome bacterial mutagenicity assay ) or in two assays for chromosomal aberrations ( human peripheral blood lymphocyte clastogenicity assay and mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
There was no effect on female fertility in rats at desloratadine doses up to 24 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 130 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
A male specific decrease in fertility , demonstrated by reduced female conception rates , decreased sperm numbers and motility , and histopathologic testicular changes , occurred at an oral desloratadine dose of 12 mg / kg in rats ( estimated desloratadine exposures were approximately 45 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Desloratadine had no effect on fertility in rats at an oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 8 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Pregnancy Category CDesloratadine was not teratogenic in rats at doses up to 48 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 210 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) or in rabbits at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine exposures were approximately 230 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
In a separate study , an increase in pre - implantation loss and a decreased number of implantations and fetuses were noted in female rats at 24 mg / kg ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 120 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Reduced body weight and slow righting reflex were reported in pups at doses of 9 mg / kg / day or greater ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 50 times or greater than the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Desloratadine had no effect on pup development at an oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 7 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , desloratadine should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing MothersDesloratadine passes into breast milk ; therefore a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue desloratadine , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseThe recommended dose of CLARINEX Syrup in the pediatric population is based on cross - study comparison of the plasma concentration of CLARINEX in adults and pediatric subjects .
The safety of CLARINEX Syrup has been established in 246 pediatric subjects aged 6 months to 11 years in three placebo - controlled clinical studies .
Since the course of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria and the effects of CLARINEX are sufficiently similar in the pediatric and adult populations , it allows extrapolation from the adult efficacy data to pediatric patients .
The effectiveness of CLARINEX Syrup in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of CLARINEX Tablets in adults .
The safety and effectiveness of CLARINEX Tablets or CLARINEX Syrup have not been demonstrated in pediatric patients less than 6 months of age .
The CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet 2 . 5 mg tablet has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Bioequivalence of the CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet and the previously marketed RediTabs Tablet was established in adults .
In conjunction with the dose finding studies in pediatrics described , the pharmacokinetic data for CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet supports the use of the 2 . 5 mg dose strength in pediatric patients 6 – 11 years of age .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of desloratadine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Special Populations ) .
Information for PatientsPatients should be instructed to use CLARINEX Tablets as directed .
As there are no food effects on bioavailability , patients can be instructed that CLARINEX Tablets , Syrup , or RediTabs Tablets may be taken without regard to meals .
Patients should be advised not to increase the dose or dosing frequency , as studies have not demonstrated increased effectiveness at higher doses and somnolence may occur .
Phenylketonurics : CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets contain phenylalanine 2 . 9 mg per 5 mg CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet or 1 . 4 mg per 2 . 5 mg CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adults and AdolescentsAllergic RhinitisIn multiple - dose placebo - controlled trials , 2 , 834 patients ages 12 years or older received CLARINEX Tablets at doses of 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg daily , of whom 1 , 655 patients received the recommended daily dose of 5 mg .
In patients receiving 5 mg daily , the rate of adverse events was similar between CLARINEX and placebo - treated patients .
The percent of patients who withdrew prematurely due to adverse events was 2 . 4 % in the CLARINEX group and 2 . 6 % in the placebo group .
There were no serious adverse events in these trials in patients receiving desloratadine .
All adverse events that were reported by greater than or equal to 2 % of patients who received the recommended daily dose of CLARINEX Tablets ( 5 . 0 mg once - daily ) , and that were more common with CLARINEX Tablets than placebo , are listed in Table 5 .
Table 5 Incidence of Adverse Events Reported by 2 % or More of Adult and Adolescent Allergic Rhinitis Patients in Placebo - Controlled , Multiple - Dose Clinical Trials with the Tablet Formulation of CLARINEXAdverse Experience CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg ( n = 1 , 655 ) Placebo ( n = 1 , 652 ) Pharyngitis 4 . 1 % 2 . 0 % Dry Mouth 3 . 0 % 1 . 9 % Myalgia 2 . 1 % 1 . 8 % Fatigue 2 . 1 % 1 . 2 % Somnolence 2 . 1 % 1 . 8 % Dysmenorrhea 2 . 1 % 1 . 6 % The frequency and magnitude of laboratory and electrocardiographic abnormalities were similar in CLARINEX and placebo - treated patients .
There were no differences in adverse events for subgroups of patients as defined by gender , age , or race .
Chronic Idiopathic UrticariaIn multiple - dose , placebo - controlled trials of chronic idiopathic urticaria , 211 patients ages 12 years or older received CLARINEX Tablets and 205 received placebo .
Adverse events that were reported by greater than or equal to 2 % of patients who received CLARINEX Tablets and that were more common with CLARINEX than placebo were ( rates for CLARINEX and placebo , respectively ) : headache ( 14 % , 13 % ) , nausea ( 5 % , 2 % ) , fatigue ( 5 % , 1 % ) , dizziness ( 4 % , 3 % ) , pharyngitis ( 3 % , 2 % ) , dyspepsia ( 3 % , 1 % ) , and myalgia ( 3 % , 1 % ) .
PediatricsTwo hundred and forty - six pediatric subjects 6 months to 11 years of age received CLARINEX Syrup for 15 days in three placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Pediatric subjects aged 6 to 11 years received 2 . 5 mg once a day , subjects aged 1 to 5 years received 1 . 25 mg once a day , and subjects 6 to 11 months of age received 1 . 0 mg once a day .
In subjects 6 to 11 years of age , no individual adverse event was reported by 2 percent or more of the subjects .
In subjects 2 to 5 years of age , adverse events reported for CLARINEX and placebo in at least 2 percent of subjects receiving CLARINEX Syrup and at a frequency greater than placebo were fever ( 5 . 5 % , 5 . 4 % ) , urinary tract infection ( 3 . 6 % , 0 % ) , and varicella ( 3 . 6 % , 0 % ) .
In subjects 12 months to 23 months of age , adverse events reported for the CLARINEX product and placebo in at least 2 percent of subjects receiving CLARINEX Syrup and at a frequency greater than placebo were fever ( 16 . 9 % , 12 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 15 . 4 % , 11 . 3 % ) , upper respiratory tract infections ( 10 . 8 % , 9 . 7 % ) , coughing ( 10 . 8 % , 6 . 5 % ) , appetite increased ( 3 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % ) , emotional lability ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , epistaxis ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , parasitic infection ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , pharyngitis ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , rash maculopapular ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) .
In subjects 6 months to 11 months of age , adverse events reported for CLARINEX and placebo in at least 2 percent of subjects receiving CLARINEX Syrup and at a frequency greater than placebo were upper respiratory tract infections ( 21 . 2 % , 12 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 19 . 7 % , 8 . 1 % ) , fever ( 12 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % ) , irritability ( 12 . 1 % , 11 . 3 % ) , coughing ( 10 . 6 % , 9 . 7 % ) , somnolence ( 9 . 1 % , 8 . 1 % ) , bronchitis ( 6 . 1 % , 0 % ) , otitis media ( 6 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % ) , vomiting ( 6 . 1 % , 3 . 2 % ) , anorexia ( 4 . 5 % , 1 . 6 % ) , pharyngitis ( 4 . 5 % , 1 . 6 % ) , insomnia ( 4 . 5 % , 0 % ) , rhinorrhea ( 4 . 5 % , 3 . 2 % ) , erythema ( 3 . 0 % , 1 . 6 % ) , and nausea ( 3 . 0 % , 0 % ) .
There were no clinically meaningful changes in any electrocardiographic parameter , including the QTc interval .
Only one of the 246 pediatric subjects receiving CLARINEX Syrup in the clinical trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse event .
Observed During Clinical PracticeThe following spontaneous adverse events have been reported during the marketing of desloratadine : tachycardia , palpitations , rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions ( such as rash , pruritus , urticaria , edema , dyspnea , and anaphylaxis ) , psychomotor hyperactivity , seizures , and elevated liver enzymes including bilirubin , and very rarely , hepatitis .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE There is no information to indicate that abuse or dependency occurs with CLARINEX Tablets .
OVERDOSAGE Information regarding acute overdosage is limited to experience from clinical trials conducted during the development of the CLARINEX product .
In a dose ranging trial , at doses of 10 mg and 20 mg / day somnolence was reported .
Single daily doses of 45 mg were given to normal male and female volunteers for 10 days .
All ECGs obtained in this study were manually read in a blinded fashion by a cardiologist .
In CLARINEX - treated subjects , there was an increase in mean heart rate of 9 . 2 bpm relative to placebo .
The QT interval was corrected for heart rate ( QTc ) by both the Bazett and Fridericia methods .
Using the QTc ( Bazett ) there was a mean increase of 8 . 1 msec in CLARINEX - treated subjects relative to placebo .
Using QTc ( Fridericia ) there was a mean increase of 0 . 4 msec in CLARINEX - treated subjects relative to placebo .
No clinically relevant adverse events were reported .
In the event of overdose , consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
Symptomatic and supportive treatment is recommended .
Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxy - desloratadine are not eliminated by hemodialysis .
Lethality occurred in rats at oral doses of 250 mg / kg or greater ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 120 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
The oral median lethal dose in mice was 353 mg / kg ( estimated desloratadine exposures were approximately 290 times the human daily oral dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No deaths occurred at oral doses up to 250 mg / kg in monkeys ( estimated desloratadine exposures were approximately 810 times the human daily oral dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children 12 years of age and overThe recommended dose of CLARINEX Tablets or CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets is one 5 mg tablet once daily or the recommended dose of CLARINEX Syrup is 2 teaspoonfuls ( 5 mg in 10 mL ) once daily .
Children 6 to 11 years of ageThe recommended dose of CLARINEX Syrup is 1 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mg in 5 mL ) once daily or the recommended dose of CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets is one 2 . 5 mg tablet once daily .
Children 12 months to 5 years of ageThe recommended dose of CLARINEX Syrup is ½ teaspoonful ( 1 . 25 mg in 2 . 5 mL ) once daily .
Children 6 to 11 months of ageThe recommended dose of CLARINEX Syrup is 2 mL ( 1 . 0 mg ) once daily .
The age - appropriate dose of CLARINEX Syrup should be administered with a commercially available measuring dropper or syringe that is calibrated to deliver 2 mL and 2 . 5 mL ( ½ teaspoon ) .
In adult patients with liver or renal impairment , a starting dose of one 5 mg tablet every other day is recommended based on pharmacokinetic data .
Dosing recommendation for children with liver or renal impairment cannot be made due to lack of data .
Administration of CLARINEX RediTabs TabletsPlace CLARINEX ( desloratadine ) RediTabs Tablets on the tongue and allow to disintegrate before swallowing .
Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly .
Administer with or without water .
Take tablet immediately after opening the blister .
HOW SUPPLIED CLARINEX TabletsEmbossed " C5 " , light blue film coated tablets ; that are packaged in plastic bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 4624 - 1 Unit - of - Use package of 30 tablets ( 3 x 10 ; 10 blisters per card ) NDC 54868 - 4624 - 0 Protect Unit - of - Use packaging from excessive moisture .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Heat sensitive .
Avoid exposure at or above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rev . 2 / 07 23882191 T U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 659 , 716 ; 4 , 863 , 931 ; 5 , 178 , 878 ; 5 , 607 , 697 ; 6 , 100 , 274 ; 6 , 514 , 520 ; 6 , 709 , 676 ; and 6 , 979 , 463 .
Copyright © 2004 , 2005 , Schering Corporation .
All rights reserved .
Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CLARINEX ( desloratadine ) Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
