Active Ingredient Benzocaine , 20 % Purpose Oral anesthetic Uses For the temporary relief of pain associated with canker sores and minor dental procedures .
Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert .
Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " - caine " anesthetics .
Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or a doctor .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days ; if irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens ; or if swelling , rash , or fever develops , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to the affected area .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
• Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • Children under 2 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other Information Store at room temperature 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing and heat .
Inactive Ingredients FD & C Red # 40 , FD & C Blue # 1 , Flavor , Polyethylene glycol 3350 , Polyethylene glycol 400 , Saccharine sodium , Tocopheryl acetate , Xylitol Iolite Oral Anesthetic Gel Raspberry Jam with Vitamin E and Xylitol Gluten Free 1 . 12 oz ( 32 g ) Manufactured by Dharma Research , Inc . , 5220 NW 72 nd Ave , Unit 15 , Miami , FL 33166 1 - 877 - 833 - 3725 www . dharmaresearch . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
