AMYL NITRITE INHALANT , USP DESCRIPTION : Amyl nitrite is a rapidly acting vasodilator administered by inhalation .
0 . 3 mL is supplied in a covered thin glass capsule which is easily crushed between the fingers .
Amyl nitrite is a clear , yellowish liquid having a peculiar ethereal , fruity odor .
It is volatile , even at low temperatures , and is flammable .
This product is stabilized with Linseed Oil Epoxy .
The structural formula of amyl nitrite is : ( CH3 ) 2CHCH2CH2ONO CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Amyl nitrite causes a non specific relaxation of smooth muscle with the most prominent actions occurring in vascular smooth muscle .
This effect on vascular smooth muscle results in coronary vasodilation and decreased systemic vascular resistance and left ventricular preload and afterload .
Myocardial ischemia is relieved in patients with angina pectoris , with an abatement of chest pain and possibly other related symptoms .
Amyl nitrite vapors are absorbed rapidly through the pulmonary alveoli , manifesting therapeutic effects within one minute after inhalation .
The drug is metabolized rapidly , probably by hydrolytic denitration ; approximately one - third of the inhaled amyl nitrite is excreted in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Amyl nitrite is indicated for the rapid relief of angina pectoris .
Its effect appears within 30 seconds and lasts for approximately 3 to 5 minutes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Since it may increase intraocular and intracranial pressures , amyl nitrite is contraindicated or should be used with great caution in patients with glaucoma , recent head trauma or cerebral hemorrhage .
Amyl nitrite can cause harm to the fetus when it is administered to a pregnant woman because it significantly reduces systemic blood pressure and blood flow on the maternal side of the placenta .
WARNINGS : Transient episodes of dizziness , weakness , or syncope or other signs of cerebral ischemia due to postural hypotension may develop following inhalation of amyl nitrite , particularly if the patient is standing immobile .
To hasten recovery , measures which facilitate venous return such as head low posture , deep breathing and movement of extremities may be used .
CAUTION : Amyl nitrite is very flammable .
Do not use where it might become ignited .
Keep away from open flame or sparks .
PRECAUTIONS : General - Tolerance to amyl nitrite may develop with repeated use of the drug for prolonged periods of time .
Tolerance may be minimized by beginning with the smallest effective dose and alternating the drug with another coronary vasodilator .
High doses of nitrites may produce methemoglobinemia , especially in individuals with methemoglobin reductase deficiency or other metabolic abnormality that interferes with the normal conversion of methemoglobin back to haemoglobin .
Patient Information - Amyl nitrite should be taken by the patient when seated or lying down .
Drug Interactions - Taking amyl nitrite after drinking alcohol may worsen side effects and may cause severe hypotension and cardiovascular collapse .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Fertility Impairment - Adequate long term studies to establish adverse carcinogenic potential of this drug have not been reported .
Pregnancy - Teratogenic effects : Category C . Animal studies have not been conducted with amyl nitrite .
It is also not known whether amyl nitrite can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Amyl nitrite should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when amyl nitrite is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Mild transitory headache , dizziness and flushing of the face are common with the use of amyl nitrite .
The following adverse reactions may occur in susceptible patients : syncope , involuntary passing of urine and feces , hypotension , pallor , cold sweat , tachycardia , restlessness , weakness , vomiting and nausea .
Excessively high doses of amyl nitrite administered chronically may cause methemoglobinemia .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Abuse - Volatile nitrites are abused for sexual stimulation , with headache as a common side effect .
Dependence - Tolerance to nitrites can develop ; conditions and duration have not been established .
OVERDOSAGE : Symptoms - Inhaled doses of 5 to 10 drops of amyl nitrite may cause violent flushing of the face , accompanied by a feeling of imminent bursting of the head and very excessive heart action .
The inhalation of larger amounts may produce a feeling of suffocation and muscular weakness .
Symptoms comparable to shock may be produced ( such as weakness , restlessness , sweating , pallor , nausea , vomiting , syncope and incontinence ) attributable to pooling of blood in the postarteriolar vessels and failure of the venous blood to return to the heart .
Treatment - Measures which facilitate venous return such as head - low posture , deep breathing and movement of extremities may be used .
The use of epinephrine aggravates the shock - like reaction .
Methylene blue should be injected for treatment of severe methemoglobinemia with dyspnea .
For treating cyanide poisoning , methylene blue is contraindicated where nitrites cause iatrogenic methemoglobinemia .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION : With the patient in recumbent or seated position a capsule of amyl nitrite is held away from the face , crushed between the fingers , and held under the patient ' s nose .
Two to six inhalations of the vapors from the capsule are usually sufficient to promptly produce therapeutic effects .
Caution is recommended to avoid inhalation of excessive amounts of the drug when it is administered by someone other than the patient .
If necessary , the dose may be repeated in 3 to 5 minutes .
HOW SUPPLIED : JAMES ALEXANDER brand amyl nitrite is furnished in covered glass capsules .
Each capsule contains 0 . 3 mL in boxes of 12 .
Capsule contents are FLAMMABLE and should be protected from light .
Storage should be in a cold place .
2 o - 8 oC ( 36 o - 46 oF ) The James Alexander Corporation Blairstown , New Jersey 07825 .
Rev . 03 July 2012 Rx only .
DISPENSING SOLUTIONS ® JAMES ALEXANDER CORPORATION Blairstown , NJ .
( 908 ) 362 - 9266 Product information and MSDS available on - line at www . james - alexander . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Insert [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
