Minoxidil 5 % w / v Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only ) Remixidil Foam is for some people who have a general thinning of hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , as shownbelow ) .
Not intended for frontal baldness or a receding hairline .
Remixidil Foam has been shown to regrow hair in some people with the following degrees of thinning hair or hair loss .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] For external use only .
Extremely Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs sudden unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occursunwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage . For some men , youmay need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men and women KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children . lf swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area massage into scalp with fingers then wash hands well see enclosed booklet for complete directions on how to use using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store attemperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° c ) lngredients before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leafletkeep the package , It contains important information lnactive ingredients Water , Polygonum multiflorum Thunb , Angelica Sinensis , Vitamin H . ( Biotin ) , Cacumen Platycladi Orientalis , Ginseng Extract , Carthamus tinctorius L . Extract , Cortex Dictamni , Fructus Ligustri Lucidi Extract , Alcohol , Ligusticum Chuanxiong Hort Extract , Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch Extract , Capsaicin Hair regrowth treatment for Men [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hair regrowth treatment for Women [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
