Active Ingredient Camphor 4 . 35 % Menthol 2 . 61 % Purpose topical analgesic topical antitussive Uses Temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles & joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , bruises , sprains Provides cooling pain relief Temporarily alleviates and suppresses cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritant .
Warnings : For external use only When using this product Do not heat Do not microwave Do not add to hot water or any container when heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Avoid contact with eyes Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin Do not bandage tightly Do not take by mouth or place in nostrils Do not take or give this product for persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma or if cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucous ) unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if muscle aches and pains worsen , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions See the important warnings under " when using this product " Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Rub on the neck and chest as a thick layer or rub on sore aching muscles .
Cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired .
Clothing should be loose about the neck and chest to help vapors reach the breathing passages .
Use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 2 years of age : consult physician .
Other Information : Use only if seal is unbroken .
Inactive Ingredients Citronella oil , eucalyptus oil , peppermint oil , yellow petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 800 - 644 - 8327 BotanicChoice . com Manufactured by Indiana Botanic Gardens , Inc 3401 W . 37 th Ave . Hobart , IN 46342 C - 108007 NDC 10578 - 001 - 02 Eucamint ( r ) Camphorated Cough Suppressant Pain Relieving Ointment Temporarily alleviates cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritants .
For the temporary relief of minor aches & pains of muscles & joints Net Wt 2 oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
