WARNING It is recommended that dacarbazine for injection be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents .
• Hemopoietic depression is the most common toxicity with dacarbazine for injection .
( See WARNINGS . )
• Hepatic necrosis has been reported .
( See WARNINGS . )
• Studies have demonstrated this agent to have a carcinogenic and teratogenic effect when used in animals .
• In treatment of each patient , the physician must weigh carefully the possibility of achieving therapeutic benefit against the risk of toxicity .
DESCRIPTION Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is a white to an ivory colored solid which is light sensitive .
Each 20 mL vial contains 200 mg of dacarbazine , USP ( active ingredient ) .
Each vial also contains anhydrous citric acid and mannitol .
Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is reconstituted and administered intravenously ( pH 3 . 0 to 4 . 0 ) .
Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is an anticancer agent .
Chemically , Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is 5 - ( 3 , 3 - Dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( dacarbazine ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C6H10N6O M . W . 182 . 19 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After intravenous administration of dacarbazine for injection , the volume of distribution exceeds total body water content suggesting localization in some body tissue , probably the liver .
Its disappearance from the plasma is biphasic with initial half - life of 19 minutes and a terminal half - life of 5 hours . 1 In a patient with renal and hepatic dysfunctions , the half - lives were lengthened to 55 minutes and 7 . 2 hours . 1 The average cumulative excretion of unchanged dacarbazine in the urine is 40 % of the injected dose in 6 hours . 1 Dacarbazine is subject to renal tubular secretion rather than glomerular filtration .
At therapeutic concentrations dacarbazine is not appreciably bound to human plasma protein .
In man , dacarbazine is extensively degraded .
Besides unchanged dacarbazine , 5 - aminoimidazole - 4 carboxamide ( AIC ) is a major metabolite of dacarbazine excreted in the urine .
AIC is not derived endogenously but from the injected dacarbazine , because the administration of radioactive dacarbazine labeled with 14 C in the imidazole portion of the molecule ( dacarbazine - 2 - 14 C ) gives rise to AIC - 2 - 14 C . 1 Although the exact mechanism of action of dacarbazine for injection is not known , three hypotheses have been offered : • Inhibition of DNA synthesis by acting as a purine analog • Action as an alkylating agent • Interaction with SH groups INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dacarbazine for injection is indicated in the treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma .
In addition , Dacarbazine for injection is also indicated for Hodgkin ' s disease as a secondary - line therapy when used in combination with other effective agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dacarbazine for injection is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a hypersensitivity to it in the past .
WARNINGS Hemopoietic depression is the most common toxicity with dacarbazine for injection and involves primarily the leukocytes and platelets , although anemia may sometimes occur .
Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia may be severe enough to cause death .
The possible bone marrow depression requires careful monitoring of white blood cells , red blood cells , and platelet levels .
Hemopoietic toxicity may warrant temporary suspension or cessation of therapy with dacarbazine for injection .
Hepatic toxicity accompanied by hepatic vein thrombosis and hepatocellular necrosis resulting in death , has been reported .
The incidence of such reactions has been low ; approximately 0 . 01 % of patients treated .
This toxicity has been observed mostly when dacarbazine for injection has been administered concomitantly with other anti - neoplastic drugs ; however , it has also been reported in some patients treated with dacarbazine for injection alone .
Anaphylaxis can occur following the administration of dacarbazine for injection .
PRECAUTIONS Hospitalization is not always necessary but adequate laboratory study capability must be available .
Extravasation of the drug subcutaneously during intravenous administration may result in tissue damage and severe pain .
Local pain , burning sensation , and irritation at the site of injection may be relieved by locally applied hot packs .
Carcinogenicity of dacarbazine was studied in rats and mice .
Proliferative endocardial lesions , including fibrosarcomas and sarcomas were induced by dacarbazine in rats .
In mice , administration of dacarbazine resulted in the induction of angiosarcomas of the spleen .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects , Pregnancy Category C Dacarbazine for injection has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses 20 times the human daily dose on day 12 of gestation .
Dacarbazine when administered in 10 times the human daily dose to male rats ( twice weekly for 9 weeks ) did not affect the male libido , although female rats mated to male rats had higher incidence of resorptions than controls .
In rabbits , dacarbazine daily dose 7 times the human daily dose given on days 6 to 15 of gestation resulted in fetal skeletal anomalies .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dacarbazine for injection should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for dacarbazine for injection in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms of anorexia , nausea , and vomiting are the most frequently noted of all toxic reactions .
Over 90 % of patients are affected with the initial few doses .
The vomiting lasts 1 to 12 hours and is incompletely and unpredictably palliated with phenobarbital and / or prochlorperazine .
Rarely , intractable nausea and vomiting have necessitated discontinuance of therapy with dacarbazine for injection .
Rarely , dacarbazine for injection has caused diarrhea .
Some helpful suggestions include restricting the patient ' s oral intake of food for 4 to 6 hours prior to treatment .
The rapid toleration of these symptoms suggests that a central nervous system mechanism may be involved , and usually these symptoms subside after the first 1 or 2 days .
There are a number of minor toxicities that are infrequently noted .
Patients have experienced an influenza - like syndrome of fever to 39 ° C , myalgias and malaise .
These symptoms occur usually after large single doses , may last for several days , and they may occur with successive treatments .
Alopecia has been noted as has facial flushing and facial paresthesia .
There have been few reports of significant liver or renal function test abnormalities in man .
However , these abnormalities have been observed more frequently in animal studies .
Erythematous and urticarial rashes have been observed infrequently after administration of dacarbazine for injection .
Rarely , photosensitivity reactions may occur .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Give supportive treatment and monitor blood cell counts .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malignant Melanoma The recommended dosage is 2 to 4 . 5 mg / kg / day for 10 days .
Treatment may be repeated at 4 week intervals . 2 An alternate recommended dosage is 250 mg / square meter body surface / day intravenous for 5 days .
Treatment may be repeated every 3 weeks . 3 , 4 Hodgkin ' s Disease The recommended dosage of dacarbazine for injection in the treatment of Hodgkin ' s Disease is 150 mg / square meter body surface / day for 5 days , in combination with other effective drugs .
Treatment may be repeated every 4 weeks . 5 An alternative recommended dosage is 375 mg / square meter body surface on day 1 , in combination with other effective drugs , to be repeated every 15 days . 6 Dacarbazine for injection 200 mg / vial is reconstituted with 19 . 7 mL of sterile water for injection , USP .
Dacarbazine for injection 500 mg / vial is reconstituted with 49 . 25 mL of sterile water for injection , USP .
The resulting solution contains 10 mg / mL of dacarbazine having a pH of 3 . 0 to 4 . 0 .
The calculated dose of the resulting solution is drawn into a syringe and administered only intravenously .
The reconstituted solution may be further diluted with 5 % dextrose injection or sodium chloride injection and administered as an intravenous infusion .
After reconstitution and prior to use , the solution in the vial may be stored at 4 ° C for up to 72 hours or at normal room conditions ( temperature and light ) for up to 8 hours .
If the reconstituted solution is further diluted in 5 % dextrose injection or sodium chloride injection , the resulting solution may be stored at 4 ° C for up to 24 hours or at normal room conditions for up to 8 hours .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 7 – 12 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is available as follows : NDC Number Concentration Package Size 0703 - 5075 - 01 200 mg 20 mL single - dose vial , packaged individually 0703 - 5075 - 03 200 mg 20 mL single - dose vials , 10 per package Store in a refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Use within 8 hours of reconstitution .
Protect from light .
Discard Unused Portion .
REFERENCES • Loo , T . J . , et al . : Mechanism of action and pharmacology studies with DTIC ( NSC - 45388 ) .
Cancer Treatment Reports 60 : 149 – 152 , 1976 .
• Nathanson , L . , et al . : Characteristics of prognosis and response to an imidazole carboxamide in malignant melanoma .
Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics 12 : 955 – 962 , 1971 .
• Costanza , M . E . , et al . : Therapy of malignant melanoma with an imidazole carboxamide and bischloroethyl nitrosourea .
Cancer 30 : 1457 – 1461 , 1972 .
• Luce , J . K . , et al . : Clinical trials with the antitumor agent 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( NSC - 45388 ) .
Cancer Chemotherapy Reports 54 : 119 – 124 , 1970 .
• Bonadonna , G . , et al . : Combined Chemotherapy ( MOPP or ABVD ) — radiotherapy approach in advanced Hodgkin ' s disease .
Cancer Treatment Reports 61 : 769 – 777 , 1977 .
• Santoro , A . , and Bonadonna , G . : Prolonged disease - free survival in MOPP - resistant Hodgkin ' s disease after treatment with adriamycin , bleomycin , vinblastine and dacarbazine ( ABVD ) .
Cancer Chemotherapy Pharmacol .
2 : 101 – 105 , 1979 .
• Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs , NIH Publication No . 83 - 2621 .
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U . S . Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 .
• AMA Council Report , Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics , JAMA , 1985 ; 253 ( 11 ) : 1590 – 1592 .
• National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure — Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , ScD . , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure , Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , Massachusetts 02115 .
• Clinical Oncological Society of Australia , Guidelines and Recommendations for Safe Handling of Antineoplastic Agents .
Med .
J . Australia , 1983 ; 1 : 426 – 428 .
• Jones , RB , et al . : Safe Handling of Chemotherapeutic Agents : A Report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA — A Cancer Journal for Clinicians , 1983 ; ( Sept / Oct ) 258 – 263 .
• American Society of Hospital Pharmacists Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic and Hazardous Drugs .
Am .
J . Hosp .
Pharm , 1990 ; 47 : 1033 – 1049 .
• OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines for Personnel Dealing with Cytotoxic ( Antineoplastic ) Drugs .
Am .
J . Hosp .
Pharm , 1986 ; 43 : 1193 – 1204 .
Distributed by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . B 2 / 2020 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0703 - 5075 - 01 Rx only Dacarbazine for Injection , USP 200 mg Prepared as the citrate salt For Intravenous Use Only Single - Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
