1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TARPEYO is indicated to reduce proteinuria in adults with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy ( IgAN ) at risk of rapid disease progression , generally a urine protein - to - creatinine ratio ( UPCR ) ≥ 1 . 5 g / g .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction in proteinuria .
It has not been established whether TARPEYO slows kidney function decline in patients with IgAN .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory clinical trial .
TARPEYO is a corticosteroid indicated to reduce proteinuria in adults with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy ( IgAN ) at risk of rapid disease progression , generally a urine protein - to - creatinine ratio ( UPCR ) ≥ 1 . 5 g / g .
( 1 ) This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction in proteinuria .
It has not been established whether TARPEYO slows kidney function decline in patients with IgAN .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory clinical trial .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended duration of therapy is 9 months , with a dosage of 16 mg administered orally once daily [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
When discontinuing therapy , reduce the dosage to 8 mg once daily for the last 2 weeks of therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The delayed release capsules should be swallowed whole in the morning , at least 1 hour before a meal .
Do not open , crush or chew .
If a dose is missed , take the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time .
Do not double the next dose .
Safety and efficacy of treatment with subsequent courses of TARPEYO have not been established .
• The recommended dosage is 16 mg administered orally once daily , in the morning at least 1 hour before a meal .
( 2 ) • Swallow whole .
Do not open , crush or chew .
( 2 ) When discontinuing , reduce dosage to 8 mg once daily for the last two weeks .
( 2 , 5 . 1 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Delayed release capsule containing 4 mg budesonide .
White coated opaque capsules printed with “ CAL10 4 MG ” in black ink .
Delayed release capsules : 4 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TARPEYO is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of TARPEYO .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis have occurred with other budesonide formulations .
• Hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients in TARPEYO .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression : Follow general warnings concerning corticosteroids , patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk .
Taper upon discontinuation .
( 2 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) • Risks of immunosuppression : Avoid use in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
May affect vaccine efficacy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Other Corticosteroid Effects : Monitor patients with concomitant conditions where corticosteroids may have unwanted effects ( e . g . , hypertension , diabetes mellitus ) .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression When corticosteroids are used chronically , systemic effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur .
Corticosteroids can reduce the response of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis to stress .
In situations where patients are subject to surgery or other stress situations , supplementation with a systemic corticosteroid is recommended .
When discontinuing therapy [ see Dosing and Administration ( 2 ) ] or switching between corticosteroids , monitor for signs of adrenal axis suppression .
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C respectively ) could be at an increased risk of hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression due to an increased systemic exposure of oral budesonide .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Monitor for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Risks of Immunosupression Patients who are on drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infection than healthy individuals .
Chickenpox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible patients or patients on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids .
Avoid corticosteroid therapy in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
Avoid exposure to active , easily - transmitted infections ( e . g . , chicken pox , measles ) .
Corticosteroid therapy may decrease the immune response to some vaccines .
How the dose , route , and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed to chickenpox , consider therapy with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) or pooled intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) .
If exposed to measles , consider prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) .
If chickenpox develops , consider treatment with antiviral agents .
5 . 3 Other Corticosteroid Effects TARPEYO is a systemically available corticosteroid and is expected to cause related adverse reactions .
Monitor patients with hypertension , prediabetes , diabetes mellitus , osteoporosis , peptic ulcer , glaucoma or cataracts , or with a family history of diabetes or glaucoma , or with any other condition where corticosteroids may have unwanted effects .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Risks of immunosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Other corticosteroid effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are hypertension , peripheral edema , muscle spasms , acne , dermatitis , weight increase , dyspnea , face edema , dyspepsia , fatigue , hirsutism .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Calliditas Therapeutics at 1 - 844 - IGA - 0011 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of TARPEYO has been evaluated in a randomized controlled study in 197 patients .
The most common adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of TARPEYO - treated patients are listed in Table 1 .
The majority of adverse reactions were mild or moderate in severity .
Table 1 : Reported adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of TARPEYO treated patients , and greater than or equal to 2 % higher than Placebo Adverse Reaction TARPEYO 16 mg ( N = 97 ) Placebo ( N = 100 ) n ( % ) n ( % ) Patients with any Adverse Reaction 84 ( 87 ) 73 ( 73 ) Hypertension 15 ( 16 ) 2 ( 2 ) Peripheral edema 14 ( 14 ) 4 ( 4 ) Muscle spasms 13 ( 13 ) 4 ( 4 ) Acne 11 ( 11 ) 2 ( 2 ) Dermatitis 7 ( 7 ) 1 ( 1 ) Weight increased 7 ( 7 ) 3 ( 3 ) Dyspnea 6 ( 6 ) 0 ( 0 ) Face edema 6 ( 6 ) 1 ( 1 ) Dyspepsia 5 ( 5 ) 2 ( 2 ) Fatigue 5 ( 5 ) 2 ( 2 ) Hirsutism 5 ( 5 ) 0 ( 0 ) Most adverse reactions that occurred at a greater incidence for TARPEYO compared to placebo were consistent with hypercortisolism .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . ketoconazole , grapefruit juice ) : Can increase systemic budesonide concentrations : avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Interaction with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 .
Avoid use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ; e . g . ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , indinavir , saquinavir , erythromycin , and cyclosporine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid ingestion of grapefruit juice with TARPEYO .
Intake of grapefruit juice , which inhibits CYP3A4 activity , can increase the systemic exposure to budesonide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Routine monitoring of linear growth in infants is recommended with chronic use of budesonide in the nursing mother .
( 8 . 2 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data from published case series , epidemiological studies and reviews with oral budesonide use in pregnant women have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with IgA Nephropathy .
Infants exposed to in - utero corticosteroids , including budesonide , are at risk for hypoadrenalism ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies with pregnant rats and rabbits , administration of subcutaneous budesonide during organogenesis at doses approximately 0 . 3 times or 0 . 03 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , resulted in increased fetal loss , decreased pup weights , and skeletal abnormalities .
Maternal toxicity was observed in both rats and rabbits at these dose levels ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage of the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk IgA nephropathy in pregnancy is associated with adverse maternal outcomes , including increased rates of cesarean section , pregnancy - induced hypertension , pre - eclampsia and preterm delivery , and adverse fetal / neonatal outcomes , including stillbirth and low birth weight .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Hypoadrenalism may occur in infants born to mothers receiving corticosteroids during pregnancy .
Infants should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism , such as poor feeding , irritability , weakness , and vomiting , and managed accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Budesonide was teratogenic and embryo - lethal in rabbits and rats .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats dosed subcutaneously with budesonide during the period of organogenesis on gestation days 6 to 15 there were effects on fetal development and survival at subcutaneous doses up to approximately 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) on a body surface area basis ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits dosed during the period of organogenesis on gestation days 6 to 18 , there was an increase in maternal abortion , and effects on fetal development and reduction in litter weights at subcutaneous doses from approximately 25 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 03 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
Maternal toxicity , including reduction in body weight gain , was observed at subcutaneous doses of 5 mcg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 0 . 006 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 3 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In a peri - and post - natal development study , subcutaneous treatment of pregnant rats with budesonide during the period from Day 15 post coitum to Day 21 post partum , budesonide had no effects on delivery , but did have an effect on growth and development of offspring .
In addition , offspring survival was reduced and surviving offspring had decreased mean body weights at birth and during lactation at exposures ≥ 0 . 012 times the MRHD ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal subcutaneous doses of 20 mcg / kg / day and higher ) .
These findings occurred in the presence of maternal toxicity .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Breastfeeding is not expected to result in significant exposure of the infant to TARPEYO .
Lactation studies have not been conducted with oral budesonide , including TARPEYO , and no information is available on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects on the drug on milk production .
One published study reports that budesonide is present in human milk following maternal inhalation of budesonide ( see Data ) .
Routine monitoring of linear growth in infants is recommended with chronic use of budesonide in the nursing mother .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for TARPEYO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from TARPEYO , or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data One published study reports that budesonide is present in human milk following maternal inhalation of budesonide , which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 3 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk to plasma ratio was approximately 0 . 5 .
Budesonide was not detected in plasma , and no adverse events were noted in the breastfed infants following maternal use of inhaled budesonide .
Assuming a daily average milk intake of about 150 mL / kg / day and a milk to plasma ratio of 0 . 5 , the estimated oral dose of budesonide for a 5 kg infant is expected to be less than 2 mcg / day for a maternal dose of 16 mg TARPEYO .
Assuming 100 % bio - availability in the infant this is about 0 . 1 % of the maternal dose and about 3 % of the highest inhaled dose used clinically for asthma in infants .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of TARPEYO in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of TARPEYO did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C , respectively ) could be at an increased risk of hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression due to an increased systemic exposure to budesonide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairments ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Monitor for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE Reports of acute toxicity and / or death following overdosage of corticoids are rare .
In the event of acute overdosage , no specific antidote is available .
Treatment consists of supportive and symptomatic therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION TARPEYO ( budesonide ) delayed release capsules , for oral administration , contain budesonide , a synthetic corticosteroid , as the active ingredient .
Budesonide is designated chemically as 16α , 17α - [ ( 1 RS ) - Butylidenebis ( oxy ) ] - 11β , 21 - dihydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione .
Budesonide is provided as a mixture of two epimers ( 22 R and 22 S ) .
The empirical formula of budesonide is C25H34O6 and its molecular weight is 430 . 5 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Budesonide is a white to off - white , tasteless , odorless powder that is practically insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and freely soluble in chloroform .
The beads in each capsule contain the following inactive ingredients : sugar spheres ( sucrose and starch ) , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , citric acid monohydrate , ethyl cellulose , medium chain triglycerides and oleic acid .
The capsule shells contain hypromellose and titanium oxide ( E171 ) ; and the printing ink on the capsules contain shellac , propylene glycol and black iron oxide ( E172 ) .
The enteric coating on the capsules contain : methacrylic acid and methacrylate copolymer , talc and dibutyl sebacate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Budesonide is a corticosteroid with potent glucocorticoid activity and weak mineralocorticoid activity that undergoes substantial first pass metabolism .
Mucosal B - cells present in the ileum , including the Peyer ' s patches , express glucocorticoid receptors and are responsible for the production of galactose - deficient IgA1 antibodies ( Gd - Ag1 ) causing IgA nephropathy .
Through their anti - inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects at the glucocorticoid receptor , corticosteroids can modulate B - cell numbers and activity .
It has not been established to what extent TARPEYO ' s efficacy is mediated via local effects in the ileum vs systemic effects .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Treatment with corticosteroids , including TARPEYO , is associated with a suppression of endogenous cortisol concentrations and an impairment of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis function .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following single oral administration of TARPEYO 16 mg to healthy subjects , the average geometric mean Cmax ( CV % ) was 4 . 4 ng / mL ( 58 . 3 ) , and AUC0 - 24 was 24 . 1 h * ng / mL ( 49 . 7 ) .
Median Tlag ( min , max ) was 3 . 1 h ( 0 , 6 ) while median Tmax ( min , max ) was 5 . 1 h ( 4 . 5 , 10 ) .
Food Effect There was no clinically relevant food effect observed on the overall systemic exposure of budesonide when either a moderate or high fat meal was consumed 1 hour after administration of TARPEYO .
Distribution Approximately 85 to 90 % of budesonide binds to plasma proteins in blood over the concentration range of 0 . 43 to 99 ng / mL .
The volume of distribution at steady state reported in the literature is 3 to 4 L / kg .
Metabolism Budesonide is metabolized by the liver ( and to lesser extent the gut ) , primarily by oxidative pathways via CYP3A4 to two main metabolites , 16α - hydroxyprednisolone and 6β - hydroxybudesonide , which have less than 1 % of the corticosteroid activity of budesonide .
Elimination Budesonide had a high plasma clearance , 0 . 9 to 1 . 8 L / min in healthy adults , which is close to the estimated liver blood flow , and , accordingly , suggests that budesonide is a high hepatic clearance drug .
Following single oral administration of TARPEYO 16 mg to healthy subjects , the elimination half - life ( t ½ ) for TARPEYO ranged from 5 . 0 to 6 . 8 hours .
Excretion Budesonide was excreted in urine and feces in the form of metabolites .
After oral as well as intravenous administration of micronized [ 3 H ] - budesonide , approximately 60 % of the recovered radioactivity was found in urine .
The major metabolites , including 16α - hydroxyprednisolone and 6β - hydroxybudesonide , are mainly renally excreted , intact or in conjugated forms .
No unchanged budesonide was detected in urine .
Specific Populations Age , race , and body weight The effect of age , race , and body weight on the pharmacokinetics of TARPEYO has not been established .
Sex Of the 143 healthy volunteers included in the Phase 1 studies , 29 % were female .
Pharmacokinetics of budesonide was similar between males and females .
Hepatic Impairment Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class B ) had 3 . 5 times the budesonide AUC compared with healthy volunteers while subjects with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A ) had approximately 40 % higher budesonide AUC compared with healthy volunteers .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) have not been studied .
Renal Impairment Intact budesonide is not excreted renally .
The main metabolites of budesonide , which have negligible corticosteroid activity , are largely ( 60 % ) excreted in urine .
Drug Interaction Studies Budesonide is metabolized via CYP3A4 .
Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 can increase plasma levels of budesonide .
Thus , clinically relevant drug interactions with potent CYP3A inhibitors , such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , indinavir , saquinavir , erythromycin , cyclosporine , and grapefruit juice , are to be expected .
Conversely , induction of CYP3A4 potentially could result in the lowering of budesonide plasma concentrations .
Effects of Other Drugs on Budesonide Ketoconazole In an open , non - randomized , cross - over study , 6 healthy subjects were given budesonide 10 mg as a single dose , either alone or concomitantly with the last ketoconazole dose of 3 days treatment with ketoconazole 100 mg twice daily .
Co - administration of ketoconazole resulted in 8 - fold the AUC of budesonide , compared to budesonide alone .
In an open , randomized , cross - over study 8 healthy subjects were given Entocort EC 3 mg as a single dose , either alone or concomitantly with the last ketoconazole dose of 4 days treatment with ketoconazole 200 mg once daily .
Co - administration of ketoconazole resulted in 6 . 5 - fold the AUC of budesonide , compared to budesonide alone .
Grapefruit Juice In an open , randomized , cross - over study , 8 healthy subjects were given Entocort EC 3 mg , either alone , or concomitantly with 600 mL concentrated grapefruit juice ( which inhibits CYP3A4 activity predominantly in the intestinal mucosa ) , on the last of 4 daily administrations .
Concomitant administration of grapefruit juice resulted in doubling the bioavailability of budesonide compared to budesonide alone .
Proton Pump Inhibitors The pharmacokinetics of TARPEYO have not been evaluated in combination with proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) .
Since the disintegration of TARPEYO is pH dependent , the release properties and uptake of budesonide may be altered when TARPEYO is taken after treatment with PPIs .
In a study assessing intragastric and intraduodenal pH in healthy volunteers after repeated dosing with the PPI omeprazole 40 mg once daily , intragastric and intraduodenal pH did not exceed that required for disintegration of TARPEYO .
Beyond the duodenum , PPIs such as omeprazole are unlikely to affect pH . Oral Contraceptives ( CYP3A4 Substrates ) In a parallel study , the pharmacokinetics of budesonide were not significantly different between healthy female subjects who received oral contraceptives containing desogestrel 0 . 15 mg and ethinyl estradiol 30 μg and healthy female subjects who did not receive oral contraceptives .
Budesonide 4 . 5 mg once daily for one week did not affect the plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol , a CYP3A4 substrate .
The effect of budesonide 16 mg once daily on the plasma concentrations of desogestrel and ethinyl estradiol was not studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with budesonide were conducted in rats and mice .
In a two - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of gliomas in male rats at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 03 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) on a body surface area basis ) .
In addition , there were increased incidences of primary hepatocellular tumors in male rats at 25 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 015 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No tumorigenicity was seen in female rats at oral doses up to 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 03 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
In an additional two - year study in male Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused no gliomas at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 03 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular tumors at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 03 times the MRHD of a body surface area basis ) .
The concurrent reference corticosteroids ( prednisolone and triamcinolone acetonide ) showed similar findings .
In a 91 - week study in mice , budesonide caused no treatment - related carcinogenicity at oral doses up to 200 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 06 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
Budesonide was not genotoxic in the Ames text , the mouse lymphoma cell forward gene mutation ( TK + / - ) test , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , the Drosophila melanogaster sex - linked recessive lethal test , the rat hepatocyte UDS test and the mouse micronucleus test .
In rats , budesonide had no effect on fertility at subcutaneous doses up to 80 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a decrease in prenatal viability and viability in pups at birth and during lactation , along with a decrease in maternal food consumption and body weight gain , at subcutaneous doses of 20 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 012 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No such effects were noted at 5 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 003 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of IgAN The effect of TARPEYO on proteinuria was assessed in a randomized , double - blind , multicenter study ( Nef - 301 , NCT : 03643965 ) in patients with biopsy - proven IgAN , eGFR ≥ 35 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , and proteinuria ( defined as either ≥ 1 g / day or UPCR ≥ 0 . 8 g / g ) who were on a stable dose of maximally - tolerated RAS inhibitor therapy .
Patients with other glomerulopathies , nephrotic syndrome , or those who had been treated with systemic immunosuppressive medications were excluded .
Patients were randomized 1 : 1 to either TARPEYO 16 mg once daily or placebo and treated for nine months followed by a 2 - week taper of either TARPEYO 8 mg once daily or placebo .
Of the 199 patients who completed the Month 9 visit , 68 % were male , 86 % were Caucasian , 12 % were Asian , and 16 % were from the US .
The median age was 44 years ( range 23 to 73 years ) .
At baseline , the mean eGFR was approximately 58 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , with 62 % of patients having an eGFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean baseline UPCR was 1 . 6 g / g and 25 % of patients had proteinuria > 3 . 5 g / 24 hours .
Approximately 73 % of patients had a history of hypertension and 5 % had a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
At baseline , 98 % were treated with an ACE inhibitor or ARB and < 1 % of patients were on an SGLT2 inhibitor .
The primary endpoint was the percentage reduction in UPCR at 9 months compared to baseline .
The results are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint at 9 months in Phase 3 Study Nef - 301 a All patients with a UPCR reading regardless of use of prohibited medication at 9 months .
bAdjusted geometric least squares mean ratio of UPCR relative to baseline were based on a longitudinal repeated measures model .
c The estimate of the ratio of geometric mean ratio of UPCR relative to baseline comparing TARPEYO 16 mg with placebo was reported as percentage reduction along with the respective 95 % confidence interval from the longitudinal repeated measures model and p - values .
CI : confidence interval ; UPCR : urine protein creatinine ratio .
Primary Endpoint : UPCR g / g a TARPEYO 16 mg ( N = 97 ) Placebo ( N = 102 ) Percentage reduction from baseline ( Adjusted for baseline ) b 34 % 5 % TARPEYO 16 mg versus Placebo : Percentage reduction ( 95 % CI ) c ; 2 - sided p - value 31 % ( 16 % to 42 % ) ; p = 0 . 0001 The treatment effect for the UPCR endpoint at 9 months were consistent across key subgroups , including key demographic ( such as age , sex , race ) and baseline disease ( such as baseline proteinuria ) characteristics .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING TARPEYO ( budesonide ) delayed release capsules 4 mg , are white opaque - coated capsules marked with “ CAL10 4 MG ” in black ink on the body of the capsule .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 81749 - 004 - 01 : Bottles of 120 capsules .
Child - resistant cap .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise patients that TARPEYO may cause hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression and to follow a taper schedule , as instructed by their healthcare provider if discontinuing therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
TARPEYO causes immunosuppression .
Advise patients to avoid exposure to people with chicken pox or measles and , if exposed , to consult their healthcare provider immediately .
There is an increased risk of developing a variety of infections , including worsening of existing tuberculosis , fungal , bacterial , viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex , and to contact their healthcare provider if they develop any symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Provide advice regarding vaccination schedules for immunocompromised patients .
Advise patients that TARPEYO delayed release capsules should be swallowed whole and not chewed , crushed or broken and to take TARPEYO in the morning , at least 1 hour before a meal [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to avoid the consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of their TARPEYO therapy [ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
TARPEYO is a trademark of Calliditas Therapeutics AB , or its affiliates .
© 2021 Calliditas Therapeutics AB ( publ ) Manufactured for and distributed by : Calliditas Therapeutics AB Stockholm , Sweden Patent : http : / / www . calliditas . com / patents This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 12 / 2021 Patient Information TARPEYO ( tar - PAY - oh ) ( budesonide ) delayed release capsules What is TARPEYO ?
TARPEYO is a prescription medicine used to reduce levels of protein in the urine ( proteinuria ) in adults with a kidney disease called primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy ( IgAN ) , who are at high risk of disease progression .
It is not known if TARPEYO is safe and effective in children .
Do not take TARPEYO if you are allergic to budesonide or any of the ingredients in TARPEYO .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in TARPEYO .
Before taking TARPEYO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems .
• plan to have surgery .
• have chickenpox or measles or have recently been near anyone with chickenpox or measles .
• have an infection .
• have high blood sugar levels ( prediabetes or diabetes ) .
• have glaucoma or cataracts .
• have a family history of diabetes or glaucoma .
• have or have had tuberculosis .
• have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
• have decreased bone mineral density ( osteoporosis ) .
• have stomach ulcers .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
TARPEYO may harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the possible risk to your unborn baby if you take TARPEYO when you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TARPEYO passes into your breast milk or if it will affect your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with TARPEYO .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
TARPEYO and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
How should I take TARPEYO ?
• Take TARPEYO exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Your healthcare provider will decide how long you should take TARPEYO .
Do not stop taking TARPEYO without first talking with your healthcare provider .
• Take your prescribed dose of TARPEYO 1 time each day in the morning , at least 1 hour before a meal .
• Take TARPEYO capsules whole .
Do not open , chew , crush , or break TARPEYO capsules before swallowing .
• If you miss a dose of TARPEYO , take your prescribed dose at your next scheduled time .
Do not take two doses of TARPEYO at the same time .
• If you take too much TARPEYO , call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I avoid while taking TARPEYO ?
Do not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice during your treatment with TARPEYO .
Eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice can increase the level of TARPEYO in your blood .
What are the possible side effects of TARPEYO ?
TARPEYO may cause serious side effects , including : • Effects of having too much corticosteroid medicine in your blood ( hypercorticism ) .
Long - time use of TARPEYO can cause you to have signs and symptoms of too much cortisol , a stress hormone in your blood .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the following signs and symptoms of hypercorticism : • acne • bruise easily • rounding of your face ( moon face ) • ankle swelling • thicker or more hair on your body and face • a fatty pad or hump between your shoulders ( buffalo hump ) • pink or purple stretch marks on the skin of your abdomen , thighs , breasts , or arms • Adrenal suppression .
When TARPEYO is taken for a long period of time ( chronic use ) , adrenal suppression can happen .
This is a condition in which the adrenal glands do not make enough steroid hormones .
Symptoms of adrenal suppression include : • tiredness • weakness • nausea and vomiting • low blood pressure Tell your healthcare provider if you are under stress or have any symptoms of adrenal suppression during treatment with TARPEYO .
• Risk of immunosuppression .
TARPEYO weakens your immune system .
Taking medicines that weaken your immune system makes you more likely to get infections .
Avoid contact with people who have contagious diseases , such as chickenpox or measles , during treatment with TARPEYO .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you come in contact with anyone who has chickenpox or measles .
Consult with your healthcare provider regarding appropriate vaccination scheduling .
• Tell your healthcare provider if you develop any symptoms of infection during treatment with TARPEYO , including : • fever • feeling tired • chills • aches • pain • nausea and vomiting The most common side effects of TARPEYO include : • high blood pressure • swelling of the lower legs , ankles , and feet • muscle cramp • acne • irritation or inflammation of the skin • weight increase • shortness of breath • swelling of the face • indigestion • tiredness • thicker or more hair on your body and face These are not all the possible side effects of TARPEYO .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TARPEYO ?
• Store TARPEYO at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep TARPEYO in a tightly closed container .
• Protect from moisture .
Keep TARPEYO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of TARPEYO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use TARPEYO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TARPEYO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TARPEYO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TARPEYO ?
Active ingredient : budesonide Inactive ingredients : sugar spheres ( sucrose and starch ) , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , citric acid monohydrate , ethyl cellulose , medium chain triglycerides and oleic acid .
The capsules contain : hypromellose and titanium oxide ( E171 ) .
The printing ink on the capsules contain : shellac , propylene glycol and black iron oxide ( E172 ) .
The enteric coating on the capsules contain : methacrylic acid and methacrylate copolymer , talc and dibutyl sebacate .
Manufactured for and distributed by : Calliditas Therapeutics AB , Stockholm , Sweden TARPEYO is a trademark of Calliditas Therapeutics AB , or its affiliates .
© 2021 Calliditas Therapeutics AB ( publ ) Patent : http : / / www . calliditas . com / patents For more information , go to www . TARPEYOTouchpoints . com or call 1 - 933 - 444 - 8277 .
Principal Display Panel - 4 mg Bottle Label NDC 81749 - 004 - 01 TARPEYO ™ ( budesonide ) delayed release capsules 4 mg 120 Capsules Rx only Calliditas Therapeutics AB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
