Drug Facts Active ingredients Non - Nano Zinc Oxide ( 22 . 5 % ) Non - Nano Titaniun Dioxide ( 6 . 0 % ) Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( See Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings Foe external use only Do not use on damaged or broken sin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • reapply at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( Deionixed Water ) , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Camellia Sinensis Leaf ( Green Tea ) Extract , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Eucalptus Globulus ( Eucalyptus ) Oil , Gluconolactone , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Lecithin , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Oil , Tocopherol ( Vitamin - E ) Xanthan Gum Other Information Keep away from extreme heat or cold .
Questions or comments Call toll free 877 . 515 . 8783 or visit www . TrueNatural . com true natural sunscreen NEUTRAL 50 product label true natural sunscreen NEUTRAL 50 FOR SENSATIVE SKIN Broad Spectrum SPF 50 UNSCENTED EWG Sun Safety Partner lait haute protection FPS 50 large spectre UVB / UNB 100 % mineralbased non - greasy , non - sticky reef safe & biodegradable GLUTEN FREE VEGAN TSA - TRAVEL SAFE APPROVED 3 - 4 fl oz .
/ 100 ml Made in the USA Mid for True Nature Group 5400 Carillon Pt Kirkland , WA 98033 Sensitive Skin / Peaux Sensibles Our mission is to provide high performance , all natural skin care products that are effective & safe for you , your family and the environment .
Our products are always cruelty free , paraben - free , and gluten - free .
UI Jacob , founder 100 % mineral based , UVA & UVB protection Non - Toxic , Gluten - Free and Biodegradable .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
