Rx only DESCRIPTION CAFCIT ® Injection ( caffeine citrate injection , USP ) for intravenous administration is a clear , colorless , sterile , non - pyrogenic , preservative - free , aqueous solution adjusted to pH 4 . 7 .
Each mL contains 20 mg caffeine citrate ( equivalent to 10 mg of caffeine base ) prepared in solution by the addition of 10 mg caffeine anhydrous to 5 mg citric acid monohydrate , 8 . 3 mg sodium citrate dihydrate and Water for Injection , USP .
Caffeine , a central nervous system stimulant , is an odorless white crystalline powder or granule , with a bitter taste .
It is sparingly soluble in water and ethanol at room temperature .
The chemical name of caffeine is 3 , 7 - dihydro - 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethyl - 1 H - purine - 2 , 6 - dione .
In the presence of citric acid it forms caffeine citrate salt in solution .
The structural formula and molecular weight of caffeine citrate follows .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Caffeine citrate C14H18N4O9 MW 386 . 31 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Caffeine is structurally related to other methylxanthines , theophylline , and theobromine .
It is a bronchial smooth muscle relaxant , a CNS stimulant , a cardiac muscle stimulant , and a diuretic .
Although the mechanism of action of caffeine in apnea of prematurity is not known , several mechanisms have been hypothesized .
These include : ( 1 ) stimulation of the respiratory center , ( 2 ) increased minute ventilation , ( 3 ) decreased threshold to hypercapnia , ( 4 ) increased response to hypercapnia , ( 5 ) increased skeletal muscle tone , ( 6 ) decreased diaphragmatic fatigue , ( 7 ) increased metabolic rate , and ( 8 ) increased oxygen consumption .
Most of these effects have been attributed to antagonism of adenosine receptors , both A1 and A2 subtypes , by caffeine , which has been demonstrated in receptor binding assays and observed at concentrations approximating those achieved therapeutically .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration of 10 mg caffeine base / kg to preterm neonates , the peak plasma level ( Cmax ) for caffeine ranged from 6 to 10 mg / L and the mean time to reach peak concentration ( Tmax ) ranged from 30 minutes to 2 hours .
The Tmax was not affected by formula feeding .
The absolute bioavailability , however , was not fully examined in preterm neonates .
Distribution Caffeine is rapidly distributed into the brain .
Caffeine levels in the cerebrospinal fluid of preterm neonates approximate their plasma levels .
The mean volume of distribution of caffeine in infants ( 0 . 8 to 0 . 9 L / kg ) is slightly higher than that in adults ( 0 . 6 L / kg ) .
Plasma protein binding data are not available for neonates or infants .
In adults , the mean plasma protein binding in vitro is reported to be approximately 36 % .
Metabolism Hepatic cytochrome P450 1A2 ( CYP1A2 ) is involved in caffeine biotransformation .
Caffeine metabolism in preterm neonates is limited due to their immature hepatic enzyme systems .
Interconversion between caffeine and theophylline has been reported in preterm neonates ; caffeine levels are approximately 25 % of theophylline levels after theophylline administration and approximately 3 to 8 % of caffeine administered would be expected to convert to theophylline .
Elimination In young infants , the elimination of caffeine is much slower than that in adults due to immature hepatic and / or renal function .
Mean half - life ( T1 / 2 ) and fraction excreted unchanged in urine ( Ae ) of caffeine in infants have been shown to be inversely related to gestational / postconceptual age .
In neonates , the T1 / 2 is approximately 3 to 4 days and the Ae is approximately 86 % ( within 6 days ) .
By 9 months of age , the metabolism of caffeine approximates that seen in adults ( T1 / 2 = 5 hours and Ae = 1 % ) .
Special Populations Studies examining the pharmacokinetics of caffeine in neonates with hepatic or renal insufficiency have not been conducted .
CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) should be administered with caution in preterm neonates with impaired renal or hepatic function .
Serum concentrations of caffeine should be monitored and dose administration of CAFCIT should be adjusted to avoid toxicity in this population .
Clinical Studies One multicenter , randomized , double - blind trial compared CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) to placebo in eighty - five ( 85 ) preterm infants ( gestational age 28 to < 33 weeks ) with apnea of prematurity .
Apnea of prematurity was defined as having at least 6 apnea episodes of greater than 20 seconds duration in a 24 - hour period with no other identifiable cause of apnea .
A 1 mL / kg ( 20 mg / kg caffeine citrate providing 10 mg / kg as caffeine base ) loading dose of CAFCIT was administered intravenously , followed by a 0 . 25 mL / kg ( 5 mg / kg caffeine citrate providing 2 . 5 mg / kg of caffeine base ) daily maintenance dose administered either intravenously or orally ( generally through a feeding tube ) .
The duration of treatment in this study was limited to 10 to 12 days .
The protocol allowed infants to be " rescued " with open - label caffeine citrate treatment if their apnea remained uncontrolled during the double - blind phase of the trial .
The percentage of patients without apnea on day 2 of treatment ( 24 to 48 hours after the loading dose ) was significantly greater with CAFCIT than placebo .
The following table summarizes the clinically relevant endpoints evaluated in this study : CAFCIT Placebo p - value Number of patients evaluated1 45 37 - % of patients with zero apnea events on day 2 26 . 7 8 . 1 0 . 03 Apnea rate on day 2 ( per 24 h ) 4 . 9 7 . 2 0 . 134 % of patients with 50 % reduction in apnea events from baseline on day 2 76 57 0 . 07 1 Of 85 patients who received drug , 3 were not included in the efficacy analysis because they had < 6 apnea episodes / 24 hours at baseline .
In this 10 to 12 day trial , the mean number of days with zero apnea events was 3 in the CAFCIT group and 1 . 2 in the placebo group .
The mean number of days with a 50 % reduction from baseline in apnea events was 6 . 8 in the CAFCIT group and 4 . 6 in the placebo group .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) is indicated for the treatment of apnea of prematurity .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Necrotizing Enterocolitis During the double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial , 6 cases of necrotizing enterocolitis developed among the 85 infants studied ( caffeine = 46 , placebo = 39 ) , with 3 cases resulting in death .
Five of the six patients with necrotizing enterocolitis were randomized to or had been exposed to CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) .
Reports in the published literature have raised a question regarding the possible association between the use of methylxanthines and development of necrotizing enterocolitis , although a causal relationship between methylxanthine use and necrotizing enterocolitis has not been established .
In a published randomized , placebo - controlled , clinical trial that studied the use of caffeine citrate in apnea of prematurity in approximately 2000 patients , necrotizing enterocolitis was not more common in caffeine treated patients compared to placebo .
As with all preterm infants , patients being treated with CAFCIT should be carefully monitored for the development of necrotizing enterocolitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Apnea of prematurity is a diagnosis of exclusion .
Other causes of apnea ( e . g . , central nervous system disorders , primary lung disease , anemia , sepsis , metabolic disturbances , cardiovascular abnormalities , or obstructive apnea ) should be ruled out or properly treated prior to initiation of CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) .
Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant and in cases of caffeine overdose , seizures have been reported .
CAFCIT should be used with caution in infants with seizure disorders .
The duration of treatment of apnea of prematurity in the placebo - controlled trial was limited to 10 to 12 days .
The efficacy of CAFCIT for longer periods of treatment has not been established .
Safety and efficacy of CAFCIT for use in the prophylactic treatment of sudden infant death syndrome ( SIDS ) or prior to extubation in mechanically ventilated infants have also not been established .
Cardiovascular Although no cases of cardiac toxicity were reported in the placebo - controlled trial , caffeine has been shown to increase heart rate , left ventricular output , and stroke volume in published studies .
Therefore , CAFCIT should be used with caution in infants with cardiovascular disease .
Renal and Hepatic Systems CAFCIT should be administered with caution in infants with impaired renal or hepatic function .
Serum concentrations of caffeine should be monitored and dose administration of CAFCIT should be adjusted to avoid toxicity in this population .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Elimination and Special Populations . )
Laboratory Tests Prior to initiation of CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) , baseline serum levels of caffeine should be measured in infants previously treated with theophylline , since preterm infants metabolize theophylline to caffeine .
Likewise , baseline serum levels of caffeine should be measured in infants born to mothers who consumed caffeine prior to delivery , since caffeine readily crosses the placenta .
In the placebo - controlled clinical trial , caffeine levels ranged from 8 to 40 mg / L .
A therapeutic plasma concentration range of caffeine could not be determined from the placebo - controlled clinical trial .
Serious toxicity has been reported in the literature when serum caffeine levels exceed 50 mg / L .
Serum concentrations of caffeine may need to be monitored periodically throughout treatment to avoid toxicity .
In clinical studies reported in the literature , cases of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia have been observed .
Therefore , serum glucose may need to be periodically monitored in infants receiving CAFCIT .
Drug Interactions Cytochrome P450 1A2 ( CYP1A2 ) is known to be the major enzyme involved in the metabolism of caffeine .
Therefore , caffeine has the potential to interact with drugs that are substrates for CYP1A2 , inhibit CYP1A2 , or induce CYP1A2 .
Few data exist on drug interactions with caffeine in preterm neonates .
Based on adult data , lower doses of caffeine may be needed following coadministration of drugs which are reported to decrease caffeine elimination ( e . g . , cimetidine and ketoconazole ) and higher caffeine doses may be needed following coadministration of drugs that increase caffeine elimination ( e . g . , phenobarbital and phenytoin ) .
Caffeine administered concurrently with ketoprofen reduced the urine volume in four healthy volunteers .
The clinical significance of this interaction in preterm neonates is not known .
Interconversion between caffeine and theophylline has been reported in preterm neonates .
The concurrent use of these drugs is not recommended .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , caffeine ( as caffeine base ) administered in drinking water was not carcinogenic in male rats at doses up to 102 mg / kg or in female rats at doses up to 170 mg / kg ( approximately 2 and 4 times , respectively , the maximum recommended intravenous loading dose for infants on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In an 18 - month study in C57BL / 6 mice , no evidence of tumorigenicity was seen at dietary doses up to 55 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended intravenous loading dose for infants on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Caffeine ( as caffeine base ) increased the sister chromatid exchange ( SCE ) SCE / cell metaphase ( exposure time dependent ) in an in vivo mouse metaphase analysis .
Caffeine also potentiated the genotoxicity of known mutagens and enhanced the micronuclei formation ( 5 - fold ) in folate - deficient mice .
However , caffeine did not increase chromosomal aberrations in in vitro Chinese hamster ovary cell ( CHO ) and human lymphocyte assays and was not mutagenic in an in vitro CHO / hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase ( HGPRT ) gene mutation assay , except at cytotoxic concentrations .
In addition , caffeine was not clastogenic in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Caffeine ( as caffeine base ) administered to male rats at 50 mg / kg / day subcutaneously ( approximately equal to the maximum recommended intravenous loading dose for infants on a mg / m2 basis ) for 4 days prior to mating with untreated females , caused decreased male reproductive performance in addition to causing embryotoxicity .
In addition , long - term exposure to high oral doses of caffeine ( 3 g over 7 weeks ) was toxic to rat testes as manifested by spermatogenic cell degeneration .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Concern for the teratogenicity of caffeine is not relevant when administered to infants .
In studies performed in adult animals , caffeine ( as caffeine base ) administered to pregnant mice as sustained release pellets at 50 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended intravenous loading dose for infants on a mg / m2 basis ) , during the period of organogenesis , caused a low incidence of cleft palate and exencephaly in the fetuses .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Overall , the reported number of adverse events in the double - blind period of the controlled trial was similar for the CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) and placebo groups .
The following table shows adverse events that occurred in the double - blind period of the controlled trial and that were more frequent in CAFCIT - treated patients than placebo .
ADVERSE EVENTS THAT OCCURRED MORE FREQUENTLY IN CAFCIT - TREATED PATIENTS THAN PLACEBO DURING DOUBLE - BLIND THERAPYAdverse Event ( AE ) CAFCIT N = 46 n ( % ) Placebo N = 39 n ( % ) BODY AS A WHOLE Accidental Injury 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Feeding Intolerance 4 ( 8 . 7 ) 2 ( 5 . 1 ) Sepsis 2 ( 4 . 3 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Hemorrhage 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Necrotizing Enterocolitis 2 ( 4 . 3 ) 1 ( 2 . 6 ) Gastritis 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) HEMIC AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) METABOLIC AND NUTRITIVE DISORDERS Acidosis 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Healing Abnormal 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) NERVOUS SYSTEM Cerebral Hemorrhage 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Lung Edema 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) SKIN AND APPENDAGES Dry Skin 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Rash 4 ( 8 . 7 ) 3 ( 7 . 7 ) Skin Breakdown 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) SPECIAL SENSES Retinopathy of Prematurity 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) UROGENITAL SYSTEM Kidney Failure 1 ( 2 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) In addition to the cases above , three cases of necrotizing enterocolitis were diagnosed in patients receiving CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) during the open - label phase of the study .
Three of the infants who developed necrotizing enterocolitis during the trial died .
All had been exposed to caffeine .
Two were randomized to caffeine , and one placebo patient was “ rescued ” with open - label caffeine for uncontrolled apnea .
Adverse events described in the published literature include : central nervous system stimulation ( i . e . , irritability , restlessness , jitteriness ) , cardiovascular effects ( i . e . , tachycardia , increased left ventricular output , and increased stroke volume ) , gastrointestinal effects ( i . e . , increased gastric aspirate , gastrointestinal intolerance ) , alterations in serum glucose ( i . e . , hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia ) , and renal effects ( i . e . , increased urine flow rate , increased creatinine clearance , and increased sodium and calcium excretion ) .
Published long - term follow - up studies have not shown caffeine to adversely affect neurological development or growth parameters .
A published randomized , placebo - controlled , clinical trial in premature infants with birthweights of 500 - 1250 grams studied the safety of caffeine citrate in apnea of prematurity ( NCT00182312 ) .
This trial randomized approximately 2000 premature infants with a mean gestational age of 27 weeks at birth .
The median duration of caffeine therapy was 37 days .
Prior to discharge home , death , ultrasonographic signs of brain injury , and necrotizing enterocolitis were not more common in the caffeine citrate group compared to the placebo .
At follow up at both 18 months and 5 years corrected age , death was not more common in the caffeine citrate treated group compared to placebo , nor did caffeine citrate use adversely affect neurodevelopmental outcomes .
OVERDOSAGE Following overdose , serum caffeine levels have ranged from approximately 24 mg / L ( a postmarketing spontaneous case report in which an infant exhibited irritability , poor feeding , and insomnia ) to 350 mg / L .
Serious toxicity has been associated with serum levels greater than 50 mg / L ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Signs and symptoms reported in the literature after caffeine overdose in preterm infants include fever , tachypnea , jitteriness , insomnia , fine tremor of the extremities , hypertonia , opisthotonos , tonic - clonic movements , nonpurposeful jaw and lip movements , vomiting , hyperglycemia , elevated blood urea nitrogen , and elevated total leukocyte concentration .
Seizures have also been reported in cases of overdose .
One case of caffeine overdose complicated by development of intraventricular hemorrhage and long - term neurological sequelae has been reported .
Another case of caffeine citrate overdose ( from New Zealand ; not CAFCIT ) of an estimated 600 mg caffeine citrate ( approximately 322 mg / kg ) administered over 40 minutes was complicated by tachycardia , ST depression , respiratory distress , heart failure , gastric distention , acidosis , and a severe extravasation burn with tissue necrosis at the peripheral intravenous injection site .
No deaths associated with caffeine overdose have been reported in preterm infants .
Treatment of caffeine overdose is primarily symptomatic and supportive .
Caffeine levels have been shown to decrease after exchange transfusions .
Convulsions may be treated with intravenous administration of diazepam or a barbiturate such as pentobarbital sodium .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiation of CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) , baseline serum levels of caffeine should be measured in infants previously treated with theophylline , since preterm infants metabolize theophylline to caffeine .
Likewise , baseline serum levels of caffeine should be measured in infants born to mothers who consumed caffeine prior to delivery , since caffeine readily crosses the placenta .
The recommended loading dose and maintenance doses of CAFCIT follow .
Dose of CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) Volume Dose of CAFCIT ( caffeine citrate ) mg / kg Route Frequency Loading Dose 1 mL / kg 20 mg / kg Intravenous * ( over 30 minutes ) One time Maintenance Dose 0 . 25 mL / kg 5 mg / kg Intravenous * ( over 10 minutes ) or Orally Every 24 hours ** * Using a syringe infusion pump ** Beginning 24 hours after the loading dose NOTE THAT THE DOSE OF CAFFEINE BASE IS ONE - HALF THE DOSE WHEN EXPRESSED AS CAFFEINE CITRATE ( e . g . , 20 mg of caffeine citrate is equivalent to 10 mg of caffeine base ) .
Serum concentrations of caffeine may need to be monitored periodically throughout treatment to avoid toxicity .
Serious toxicity has been associated with serum levels greater than 50 mg / L .
CAFCIT should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Vials containing discolored solution or visible particulate matter should be discarded .
Drug Compatibility To test for drug compatibility with common intravenous solutions or medications , 20 mL of CAFCIT Injection were combined with 20 mL of a solution or medication , with the exception of an Intralipid ® admixture , which was combined as 80 mL / 80 mL .
The physical appearance of the combined solutions was evaluated for precipitation .
The admixtures were mixed for 10 minutes and then assayed for caffeine .
The admixtures were then continually mixed for 24 hours , with further sampling for caffeine assays at 2 , 4 , 8 , and 24 hours .
Based on this testing , CAFCIT Injection , 60 mg / 3 mL is chemically stable for 24 hours at room temperature when combined with the following test products .
• Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % • 50 % Dextrose Injection USP • Intralipid ® 20 % IV Fat Emulsion • Aminosyn ® 8 . 5 % Crystalline Amino Acid Solution • Dopamine HCI Injection , USP 40 mg / mL diluted to 0 . 6 mg / mL with Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % • Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP 10 % ( 0 . 465 mEq / Ca + 2 / mL ) • Heparin Sodium Injection , USP 1000 units / mL diluted to 1 unit / mL with Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % • Fentanyl Citrate Injection , USP 50 mcg / mL diluted to 10 mcg / mL with Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % HOW SUPPLIED CAFCIT ® Injection ( caffeine citrate injection , USP ) is available as a clear , colorless , sterile , non - pyrogenic , preservative - free , aqueous solution in 3 mL colorless glass vials .
The vials are sealed with a teflon - faced gray rubber stopper and an aluminum overseal with a white flip - off printed with “ FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY ” in red .
The vials contain 3 mL solution at a concentration of 20 mg / mL caffeine citrate ( 60 mg / vial ) equivalent to 10 mg / mL caffeine base ( 30 mg / vial ) .
CAFCIT ® Injection ( caffeine citrate injection , USP ) is supplied as : NDC 0641 - 6164 - 10 , 3 mL Single Dose Vial packaged in a carton of 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Not made with natural rubber latex .
Preservative free .
For single dose only .
Discard unused portion .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
Manufactured by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised December 2019 462 - 708 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANELS CAFCIT ® INJECTION ( caffeine citrate injection , USP ) 60 mg / 3 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Only 3 mL Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0641 - 6164 - 10 Rx only CAFCIT ® INJECTION ( caffeine citrate injection , USP ) 60 mg / 3 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Only 10 x 3 mL Single Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
