Active Ingredients Purpose Zinc Oxide 20 % Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent Sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun • Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • Retains SPF after 80 minutes activity in the water , sweating or perspiring • Provides high protection against sunburn Keep out of reach of children : • If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Rash or irritation develops and lasts Warnings Do not use : • On damaged or broken skin When using this product : • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • For external use only Directions • Apply liberally and generously 15 minutes before sun exposure and at least every 2 hours .
• Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• Sun Proctection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early sking aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit your time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours Inactive ingredient Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Cera Alba ( Beeswax ) , Euphorbia Cerifera Cera ( Candelilla ) Wax , Copernicia Cerifera ( Carnauba ) Wax , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Ricinus Communis ( Castor ) Seed Oil , Tocopherol , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice ( Aloe Vera ) , Other Information Protect this product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Vertra Premium Suncare SPF 30 Premium Mineral Based Sunscreen Face Stick Sensitive Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) Color : Clear 10 . 5 g NET WT .
0 . 37 OZ .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
