1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RUCONEST is a C1 esterase inhibitor [ recombinant ] indicated for the treatment of acute attacks in adult and adolescent patients with hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) .
Limitation of Use : Effectiveness was not established in HAE patients with laryngeal attacks .
RUCONEST is a C1 esterase inhibitor [ recombinant ] indicated for the treatment of acute attacks in adult and adolescent patients with hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Effectiveness was not established in HAE patients with laryngeal attacks .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use after reconstitution only .
For Intravenous Use Only .
• Reconstitute each vial ( 2100 U ) by adding 14 mL sterile Water for Injection per vial to obtain a solution of 150 U per mL .
( 2 . 3 ) • Administer the reconstituted solution at room temperature as a slow intravenous injection over approximately 5 minutes .
( 2 . 3 ) • Appropriately trained patients may self - administer upon recognition of an HAE attack .
( 2 . 3 ) Recommended dose of RUCONEST for an acute attack Body weight RUCONEST Dose for Intravenous Injection Volume ( mL ) of Reconstituted Solution ( 150 U / mL ) to be Administered < 84 kg 50 U per kg Body weight in kg divided by 3 ≥ 84 kg 4200 U ( 2 vials ) 28 mL If the attack symptoms persist , an additional ( second ) dose can be administered at the recommended dose level .
Do not exceed 4200 U per dose .
No more than two doses should be administered within a 24 hour period .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosing • Initiate treatment with RUCONEST under the supervision of a qualified healthcare professional experienced in the treatment of HAE .
• Appropriately trained patients may self - administer upon recognition of an HAE attack .
• The recommended dose of RUCONEST is 50 U per kg with a maximum of 4200 U to be administered as a slow intravenous injection over approximately 5 minutes .
If the attack symptoms persist , an additional ( second ) dose can be administered at the recommended dose level .
Do not exceed 4200 U per dose .
No more than two doses should be administered within a 24 hour period .
Table 1 .
Recommended dose of RUCONEST for an acute attackBody Weight RUCONEST Dose for Intravenous Injection Volume ( mL ) of Reconstituted Solution ( 150 U / mL ) to be Administered < 84 kg 50 U per kg Body weight in kg divided by 3 ≥ 84 kg 4200 U ( 2 vials ) 28 mL 2 . 2 Preparation and Handling • Store RUCONEST in the original carton and protect from light prior to reconstitution .
• Do not use after expiration date on the product vial label .
• Water for Injection is not included in the RUCONEST package .
• Use aseptic technique to reconstitute , mix the solution , and to combine the reconstituted solution from more than one vial ( see Reconstitution [ 2 . 3 ] and Administration [ 2 . 4 ] ) .
• Do not mix or administer RUCONEST with other medicinal products or solutions .
• Discard all partially used vials after treatment .
2 . 3 Reconstitution Each package contains one single - use vial of RUCONEST .
To reconstitute , the following are also required : • Sterile Water for Injection ( diluent ) - At least 14 mL per vial of RUCONEST requiring reconstitution .
• Alcohol swab • Syringe • Commercially available vial adapter with vented vial spike and syringe luer lock or large bore needle .
If using a syringe with vial adapter , use a new vial adapter for each vial of RUCONEST and diluent .
The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the reconstitution and administration of RUCONEST .
• Ensure that the RUCONEST vial and diluent vial are at room temperature .
• Remove the flip caps from the RUCONEST and diluent vials .
Treat the vial stoppers with the alcohol swab and allow to dry .
• Using the syringe / needle or syringe / vial adapter , withdraw 14 mL of sterile water for injection from the diluent vial .
• Remove the syringe and transfer the diluent to the RUCONEST vial .
Add the diluent slowly to avoid forceful impact on the powder .
Swirl the vial slowly to mix and avoid foaming .
• Repeat this procedure using another 14 mL of diluent and a second vial of RUCONEST .
• If the same patient is to receive more than one vial , the contents of multiple vials may be pooled into a single administration device ( i . e . , syringe ) .
• Inspect RUCONEST visually for particulate matter and discoloration after reconstitution and prior to administration .
The reconstituted solution should be colorless , clear , and free from visible particles .
Do not use if the solution is cloudy , colored , or contains particulates .
• RUCONEST vial is for single - use only .
• Use the reconstituted product immediately , or within 8 hours stored at 2 ° C - 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
Discard partially used vials .
• Do not freeze the reconstituted solution .
2 . 4 Administration • Do not mix RUCONEST with other medicinal products .
Administer RUCONEST by a separate infusion line .
• Use aseptic technique when administering RUCONEST .
• Follow recommended venipuncture guidelines for initiating intravenous therapy .
• Administer RUCONEST by slow intravenous injection over approximately 5 minutes .
• For self - administration , provide the patient with instructions and training for intravenous injection outside of a clinic setting so patients may self - administer RUCONEST upon recognition of symptoms of an HAE attack ( see Patient Counseling Information [ 17 ] ) .
• After administration , immediately discard any unused product and all used disposable supplies in accordance with local requirements .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • RUCONEST is available as a lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection in a single - use 25 mL glass vial .
Each vial contains 2100 U of rhC1INH .
2100 U Lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection in a single - use vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • RUCONEST is contraindicated in patients with a history of allergy to rabbits or rabbit - derived products .
• RUCONEST is contraindicated in patients with a history of life - threatening immediate hypersensitivity reactions to C1 esterase inhibitor preparations , including anaphylaxis .
• Known or suspected allergy to rabbits and rabbit - derived products .
• History of immediate hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , to C1 esterase inhibitor preparations .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis may occur .
Should symptoms occur , discontinue RUCONEST and administer appropriate treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serious arterial and venous thromboembolic ( TE ) events have been reported at the recommended dose of plasma derived C1 esterase inhibitor products in patients with risk factors .
Monitor patients with known risk factors for TE events during and after RUCONEST administration .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions may occur [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
The signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions may include hives , generalized urticaria , tightness of the chest , wheezing , hypotension , and / or anaphylaxis during or after injection of RUCONEST .
Should symptoms occur , discontinue RUCONEST and institute appropriate treatment .
Because hypersensitivity reactions may have symptoms similar to HAE attacks , treatment methods should be carefully considered .
5 . 2 Thromboembolic Events Serious arterial and venous thromboembolic ( TE ) events have been reported at the recommended dose of plasma derived C1 esterase inhibitor products in patients with risk factors .
Risk factors may include the presence of an indwelling venous catheter / access device , prior history of thrombosis , underlying atherosclerosis , use of oral contraceptives or certain androgens , morbid obesity , and immobility .
Monitor patients with known risk factors for TE events during and after RUCONEST administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The serious adverse reaction in clinical studies of RUCONEST was anaphylaxis .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) reported in all clinical trials were headache , nausea , and diarrhea .
• The serious adverse reaction reported in clinical trials was anaphylactic reaction .
( 6 ) • The common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) reported in clinical trials were headache , nausea , and diarrhea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 508 - 0024 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The RUCONEST clinical development program evaluated a combined total of 940 administrations in 236 subjects ( symptomatic and non - symptomatic ) .
In clinical studies , a total of 205 symptomatic HAE patients received treatment with RUCONEST for a combined total of 650 acute angioedema attacks .
Among these HAE patients , 83 were treated for a single HAE attack and 122 were treated for multiple attacks .
Three randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials ( RCTs ) were conducted in which 137 patients experiencing acute HAE attacks received RUCONEST ( either an initial 50 U / kg or 100 U / kg body weight dose ) or placebo ( saline solution ) .
Table 2 shows all adverse reactions ( ARs ) in the RCTs , compared with the placebo group .
Table 2 .
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % of subjects in the three RCT studies * Includes 5 patients who received an additional 50 U / kg dose MedDRA : Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities , version 15 . 0 .
** Events only occurring in placebo patients are not listed MedDRA Preferred Term RUCONEST 100 U / kg ( N = 29 ) n ( % ) RUCONEST 50 U / kg * ( N = 66 ) n ( % ) Placebo ** ( N = 47 ) n ( % ) Total number of patients with adverse reactions 4 ( 14 % ) 6 ( 9 % ) 13 ( 28 % ) Headache 3 ( 10 % ) 0 2 ( 4 % ) Sneezing 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Angioedema 1 ( 3 % ) 0 0 Erythema marginatum 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Skin burning sensation 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Back pain 0 2 ( 3 % ) 0 C - reactive protein increased 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Fibrin D - dimer increased 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Vertigo 1 ( 3 % ) 0 0 Procedural headache 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Lipoma 0 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Integrated RCT and Open - Label Extension ( OLE ) Studies In a total of seven RCT and OLE studies , 205 patients experiencing acute HAE attacks were treated with RUCONEST for a total of 650 HAE attacks .
Included in this population were 124 patients who were treated at the 50 U / kg dosage strength for one or more attacks .
Table 3 shows adverse reactions in ≥ 2 % of patients in any RUCONEST group for the integrated dataset combining all seven RCT and OLE studies in patients experiencing acute HAE attacks .
Table 3 .
Adverse reactions in the seven RCT and OLE studies occurring ≥ 2 % of RUCONEST - treated patients ( all doses ) , irrespective of causality * RUCONEST doses : doses up to 100 U / kg MedDRA : Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities , version 15 . 0 .
MedDRA Preferred Term All RUCONEST doses * N = 205 n ( % ) Headache 19 ( 9 % ) Nausea 5 ( 2 % ) Diarrhea 5 ( 2 % ) Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
Pre - and post - exposure samples from 205 HAE patients treated for 650 acute attacks with RUCONEST were tested for the antibodies against plasma - derived C1INH or rhC1INH and for antibodies against host - related impurities ( HRI ) .
Testing was performed prior to and after treatment of a first attack and subsequent repeated attacks at 7 , 22 or 28 , and 90 days after RUCONEST treatment .
Prior to the first exposure to RUCONEST , the frequency of anti - C1INH antibodies varied from 1 . 2 % to 1 . 6 % of samples .
After the first exposure , the frequency of anti - C1INH antibodies varied from 0 . 6 % to 1 . 0 % of samples tested .
After repeated exposures , the frequency of anti - C1INH antibodies varied from 0 . 5 to 2 . 2 % of samples tested .
The frequency of anti - HRI antibodies was 1 . 0 % in pre - exposure samples , and after the first exposure varied from 3 . 5 % to 4 . 6 % .
After repeated exposure , the frequency of anti - HRI antibodies varied from 5 . 7 % to 17 % of samples .
At least 10 % of subjects formed a specific antibody response to RUCONEST after five treated HAE attacks .
No anti - C1INH neutralizing antibodies were detected .
Observed anti - C1INH and anti - HRI antibodies were not associated with adverse clinical findings .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to RUCONEST with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
Postmarketing Experience Because postmarketing reporting of adverse reactions is voluntary and from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency of these reactions or establish a causal relationship to product exposure .
Adverse reactions in HAE patients receiving RUCONEST include abdominal pain and rash .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Limited animal data .
No human data .
Use only if clearly needed .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Studies performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 12 . 5 times the human dose of 50 U / kg could not exclude an effect on embryofetal development .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , RUCONEST should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The safety and efficacy of RUCONEST administration prior to or during labor and delivery have not been established .
Use only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known if RUCONEST is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when RUCONEST is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of RUCONEST were evaluated in 17 adolescent patients ( 13 - 17 years of age ) treated for 52 HAE attacks .
Eight out of 17 ( 47 % ) adolescent patients experienced adverse reactions .
No serious adverse reactions were reported in these patients .
The most common reactions ( occurring in at least 2 patients ) were : abdominal pain , headache , and oropharyngeal pain .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The clinical studies of RUCONEST included seven patients older than 65 years .
The clinical studies included an insufficient number of patients in this age group to determine if they respond differently from younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION RUCONEST is a recombinant analogue of human complement component 1 esterase inhibitor for intravenous injection .
RUCONEST is purified from the milk of transgenic rabbits , and supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , white / off - white lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection .
One U of rhC1INH activity is defined as the equivalent of C1 esterase inhibiting activity present in 1 mL of pooled normal plasma .
RUCONEST is a soluble , single - chain glycoprotein containing 478 amino acids , with a molecular mass of 68 kDa , of which approximately 22 % comprises oligosaccharide structures .
The primary and secondary structures of the molecule and target protease selectivity are consistent with those of plasma - derived C1 esterase inhibitor .
Each vial of RUCONEST contains 2100 U of rhC1INH , 937 mg of sucrose , 83 . 3 mg of sodium citrate dihydrate and 1 . 0 mg of citric acid monohydrate .
After reconstitution with 14 mL of sterile Water for Injection , each vial of RUCONEST contains 150 U of rhC1INH per 1 mL in a 20 mM sodium citrate buffer with a pH of 6 . 8 .
RUCONEST does not contain preservatives and each vial is for single use only .
RUCONEST is purified from the milk of transgenic rabbits .
The rabbits are maintained in a closed colony that is controlled and routinely monitored for specific pathogens .
The skimmed milk is screened for adventitious contaminants prior to further manufacture .
The manufacturing process has been validated to demonstrate adequate capacity for removal and / or inactivation of viruses ( Table 4 ) .
RUCONEST contains less than 0 . 002 % of host - related impurities .
Table 4 .
Viral reduction capacity of the rhC1INH manufacturing processa MLV : Murine leukemia virus ; REO - 3 : Reovirus type 3 ; ORF : Scab - mouth ORF virus ; FCV : Feline calicivirus ; PPV : Porcine parvovirus ; b SP BB : SP Sepharose BB ; SD : Solvent / detergent ; Q HP : Q Sepharose HP ; Zn FF : Zinc Chelating Sepharose FF ; c Not added to the total reduction factor since independence of clearance mechanism has not been experimentally verified ; d Not applicable since indicated model virus is not enveloped ; e Not tested because SD chemicals are present in the starting material .
Virus Reduction Factor ( Log 10 ) Step MLV a REO 3 ORF FCV PPV SP BB chromatography b 1 . 8 2 . 2 c 1 . 5 c 2 . 3 1 . 5 b SD incubation b ≥ 5 . 8 NA d 3 . 7 NA NA Q HP chromatography b NT e 4 . 8 NT 0 . 8 c 2 . 2 Zn FF chromatography b 1 . 1 c 3 . 2 c 3 . 3 1 . 9 c 0 . 4 c Nanofiltration ≥ 5 . 5 ≥ 6 . 5 ≥ 5 . 8 ≥ 6 . 9 5 . 8 Total reduction factor ≥ 13 . 1 ≥ 11 . 3 ≥ 12 . 8 ≥ 9 . 2 8 . 0 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action C1 esterase inhibitor ( C1INH ) is a normal constituent of human blood and is one of the serine protease inhibitors ( serpins ) .
The primary function of C1INH is to regulate the activation of the complement and contact system pathways .
Regulation of these systems is performed through the formation of complexes between the protease and the inhibitor , resulting in inactivation of both and consumption of the C1INH .
C1INH exerts its inhibitory effect by irreversibly binding several proteases ( target proteases ) of the contact and complement systems .
The effect of RUCONEST on the following target proteases was assessed in vitro : activated C1s , kallikrein , factor XIIa and factor XIa .
Inhibition kinetics were found to be comparable with those observed for plasma - derived human C1INH .
HAE patients have low levels of endogenous or functional C1INH .
Although the events that induce attacks of angioedema in HAE patients are not well defined , it is thought that contact system activation , and resulting increased vascular permeability lead to the clinical manifestation of HAE attacks .
Suppression of contact system activation by C1INH through the inactivation of plasma kallikrein and factor XIIa is thought to modulate vascular permeability by preventing the generation of bradykinin .
5 Administration of RUCONEST increases plasma levels of functional C1INH activity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The complement component ( protein ) C4 is a substrate for activated C1 .
Patients with HAE have low levels of C4 in the circulation ; RUCONEST shows a dose - dependent restoration of complement homeostasis of C4 in HAE patients .
A dose of 50 U / kg of RUCONEST increases plasma C1INH activity levels to greater than 0 . 7 U / mL ( the lower limit of normal ) in HAE patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of RUCONEST was evaluated in a study of 12 asymptomatic HAE patients ( dose ranged from 6 . 25 U / kg to 100 U / kg ) .
Pharmacokinetics evaluation was performed by non - compartmental analysis , using functional C1INH levels .
Following administration of RUCONEST ( 50 U / kg ) in asymptomatic HAE patients ( Table 5 ) , the mean Cmax was 1 . 2 U / mL , and the elimination half - life was approximately 2 . 5 hours .
The clearance of RUCONEST was nonlinear ( clearance decreased with increasing dose ) over the dose range of 25 - 100 U / kg .
Table 5 .
Baseline corrected pharmacokinetic parameters ( Mean ± SD ) following administration of 50 U / kg and 100 U / kg RUCONEST to asymptomatic HAE patientsParameters 50 U / kg 100 U / kg C baseline ( U / mL ) 0 . 18 ± 0 . 12 0 . 14 ± 0 . 08 C max ( U / mL ) 1 . 2 ± 0 . 2 2 . 3 ± 0 . 2 T max ( hours ) 0 . 31 ± 0 . 10 0 . 31 ± 0 . 10 AUC ( U x hr / mL ) 3 . 3 ± 1 . 0 10 . 6 ± 2 . 5 CL ( mL / hr ) 1207 ± 414 781 ± 147 Half - life ( hours ) 2 . 4 ± 0 . 6 2 . 7 ± 0 . 3 V ss ( L ) 3 . 0 ± 0 . 9 2 . 4 ± 0 . 5 Studies have not been conducted to evaluate the PK of RUCONEST in special patient populations , identified by race , age ( pediatric or geriatric ) , or the presence of renal or hepatic impairment .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of RUCONEST on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis .
Fertility was not evaluated in animal studies .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Single - and repeat - dose studies of up to 14 days in rats , dogs , and cynomolgus monkeys with daily doses of RUCONEST up to 80 times the human dose ( 50 U / kg ) were conducted .
In a 14 - day monkey toxicology study of intravenous doses up to 2000 U / kg twice daily , increases in AST and ALP were observed at doses of 500 U / kg and higher .
No histopathological correlates were observed in the liver and the increases in liver enzymes were reversible .
Histologic findings included changes in the size of thymic cortex and medulla , and microvacuoles in the epithelial cells lining the renal tubules .
The renal tubular vacuolation was dose dependent , but was not accompanied by other histological changes in the kidney .
This finding was only partially reversible at the highest dose level of 2000 U / kg twice daily .
It was concluded that the NOAEL of RUCONEST was 1000 U / kg twice daily in this species .
There were no adverse findings in a safety pharmacology study in dogs and a local tolerance study in rabbits .
It is concluded that preclinical toxicology data for daily doses up to 40 times the proposed human dose of RUCONEST ( 50 U / kg ) do not indicate a safety concern for the use of RUCONEST in humans .
Embryo - fetal studies have been conducted in rabbits and rats at a dose of RUCONEST 12 . 5 times the human dose of 50 U / kg .
In rats , no malformed fetuses were observed .
In rabbits , an increase in the incidence of fetal cardiac vessel defects was observed ( 1 . 12 % [ 2 cases ] in the treatment group compared to 0 . 03 % in historical controls ) .
These defects are considered to be a chance finding , but a RUCONEST - related effect cannot be excluded .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of RUCONEST for treatment of acute angioedema attacks in patients with HAE was established in Study 1 , a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled trial ( RCT ) which included an open - label extension ( OLE ) phase ; and supported by the results of 2 additional RCTs and 2 additional OLE studies .
Randomized , Controlled Trials The safety and efficacy of RUCONEST in the treatment of acute attacks in patients with hereditary angioedema were demonstrated in a placebo - controlled , double - blind , randomized study ( Study 1 ) .
Supportive evidence of effectiveness is provided by two double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled studies ( Studies 2 and 3 ) .
Evidence for the efficacy of repeat treatment of HAE attacks is provided from the open - label extensions ( OLE ) of each of the three randomized studies .
Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial that included an open - label extension ( OLE ) phase to assess the efficacy and safety of RUCONEST 50 U / kg in the treatment of acute attacks in patients with HAE .
Seventy - five ( 75 ) adults and adolescent patients were randomized ( 3 : 2 ) to receive RUCONEST 50 U / kg ( N = 44 ) or placebo ( N = 31 ) .
Patients ranged in age from 17 to 69 years of age ; 63 % were female and 37 % were male ; 96 % were Caucasian .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the time to beginning of relief of symptoms , assessed using patient - reported responses to two questions from a Treatment Effect Questionnaire ( TEQ ) .
The TEQ required patients to assess the severity of their attack symptoms at each affected anatomic location , using a seven - point scale ( “ much worse ” to “ much better ” [ TEQ Question 1 ] ) , and whether their symptoms had begun to decrease notably since receiving the study medication ( “ yes ” or “ no ” [ TEQ Question 2 ] ) .
To achieve the primary endpoint , a patient had to have a positive response to both questions along with persistence of improvement at the next assessment time ( i . e . , the same or better response ) .
Rescue treatment with RUCONEST was available for patients who did not experience the beginning of relief at 4 hours after study drug administration , or earlier to patients who experienced life - threatening oropharyngeal - laryngeal angioedema symptoms .
If a patient received a medication which could have impacted the efficacy evaluation or open - label RUCONEST as rescue medication , prior to achieving beginning of relief of symptoms , the time to beginning of relief of symptoms was censored at the last assessed time prior to medication use .
In the RCT phase , the median time to beginning of relief of symptoms was statistically significantly shorter in patients treated with RUCONEST 50 U / kg compared with patients treated with placebo as assessed by the TEQ ; ( Table 6 , Figure 1 ) .
Table 6 .
Time to Beginning of Relief of Symptoms based on questionnaire based on TEQ ( Study 1 , RCT Phase ) Time to Beginning of Relief of Symptoms , minutes RUCONEST 50 U / kg N = 44 Placebo N = 31 Values that are not estimable are displayed as ‘ - ’ .
Median 90 152 95 % CI ( 61 , 150 ) ( 93 , - ) Log - rank p - value 0 . 031 Figure 1 .
Kaplan - Meier Plot of Time to Beginning of Relief of Symptoms ( Study 1 , RCT Phase ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Among several planned subgroup analyses , descriptive statistics showed that in US patients a median time to beginning of relief of symptoms with persistence at the primary attack location ( based on TEQ ) was 98 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 45 , 240 ) ; n = 22 ] for those receiving RUCONEST and 90 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 50 , - ) ; n = 16 ] for those receiving placebo .
The hazard ratio for time to the beginning of relief of symptoms in this subpopulation was 1 . 20 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 48 to 3 . 01 ] for patient receiving RUCONEST as compared with patient receiving placebo .
Non - US patients receiving RUCONEST had a median time to beginning of relief of 90 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 63 , 120 ) ; n = 22 ] and non - US patients receiving placebo had a median time to beginning of relief of 334 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 150 , - ) ; n = 15 ] .
The hazard ratio for the non - US subgroup was 4 . 82 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 58 to 14 . 72 ] for patients receiving RUCONEST compared to placebo .
Examination of gender subgroups suggested a larger treatment effect in men than women .
For women receiving RUCONEST , the median time to beginning of relief was 113 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 63 , 151 ) ; n = 28 ] , and for women receiving placebo , the median time to beginning of relief was 105 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 60 , 334 ) ; n = 19 ] .
The hazard ratio for women receiving RUCONEST versus placebo was 1 . 22 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 60 to 2 . 48 ] .
For men receiving RUCONEST , the median time to beginning of relief was 75 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 45 , 210 ) ; n = 16 ] , and for men receiving placebo , the median time to beginning of relief was 480 minutes [ 95 % CI : ( 150 , - ) n = 12 ] .
The hazard ratio for men receiving RUCONEST versus placebo was 3 . 94 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 23 to 12 . 68 ] .
No plausible biological explanations for the regional or gender subgroup effects were found .
One possible explanation is a larger - than - expected placebo response among US women .
None of the subgroup confidence intervals were adjusted for multiplicity .
Because almost all of the patients were Caucasian and were between 18 and 65 years of age , race and age subgroup analyses were not considered meaningful .
Among patients who achieved relief within 4 hours , there were 4 ( 27 % ) patients in the placebo group who had a relapse of their symptoms within 24 hours as compared with 1 ( 3 % ) in the RUCONEST group .
The proportion of patients who received RUCONEST as rescue medication was greater in patients randomized to placebo ( 13 of 31 patients ; 42 % ) than in patients randomized to RUCONEST ( 5 of 44 patients ; 11 % ) .
The efficacy of RUCONEST 50 U / kg for different anatomical locations of HAE attacks is summarized in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Proportion of patients who achieved relief within 4 hours , by attack type * Life - threatening laryngeal attacks were excluded from the randomized - controlled phase of Study 1 Attack Type * RUCONEST 50 U / kg n / N ( % ) Placebo n / N ( % ) Abdominal 14 / 16 ( 88 % ) 7 / 12 ( 58 % ) Facial 3 / 6 ( 50 % ) 0 / 2 ( 0 % ) Peripheral ( extremities ) 17 / 20 ( 85 % ) 7 / 14 ( 50 % ) In the OLE phase of Study 1 , patients were treated with open - label RUCONEST 50 U / kg for repeated attacks of HAE .
Forty - four patients who completed the RCT phase were enrolled into the OLE phase where they were treated for a total of 170 attacks .
In this phase , the median time to beginning of relief of symptoms was 75 minutes ( 95 % CI : 64 , 90 ) , consistent with the results of the RCT phase of the study ( Table 6 ) .
Results were also comparable across attacks , suggesting that the efficacy of RUCONEST 50 U / kg was maintained over repeated attacks of HAE .
In the OLE phase of Study 1 , 5 / 170 ( 3 % ) attacks received a second dose of RUCONEST 50 U / kg .
In Study 2 ( North American RCT ) , patients were randomized to receive a single administration of either RUCONEST 50 U / kg ( N = 12 ) , RUCONEST 100 U / kg ( N = 13 ) or placebo ( N = 13 ) .
Patients ranged in age from 17 to 66 years of age ; 74 % were female and 26 % were male ; and 92 % were Caucasian .
In Study 3 ( European RCT ) , patients were randomized to receive a single administration of either RUCONEST 100 U / kg ( N = 16 ) or placebo ( N = 16 ) .
Patients ranged in age from 17 to 71 years of age : 53 % were female and 47 % were male ; and 100 % were Caucasian .
Patients scored their symptoms using a visual analog scale ( VAS ) ranging from 0 - 100 mm .
A VAS decrease of > 20 mm compared with baseline with persistence of the improvement at two consecutive time points was considered the onset of relief in Studies 2 and 3 .
In both Study 2 and 3 , the efficacy of RUCONEST in the treatment of acute angioedema attacks was demonstrated by significantly shorter times to beginning of relief of symptoms based on the VAS ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 .
Mean VAS scores over time with 95 % Confidence Intervals ( Study 2 and 3 , RCT Phase ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] In open - label extension studies of Study 2 and 3 , 119 patients were treated with RUCONEST for a total of 362 acute angioedema attacks .
As observed in Study 1 , the efficacy of RUCONEST was maintained for repeat attacks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • Sulikowski T , Patston PA .
The inhibition of TNK - t - PA by C1 - inhibitor .
Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis .
2001 Jan ; 12 ( 1 ) : 75 - 7 .
• Chandler WL , Alessi MC , Aillaud MF , Henderson P , Vague P , Juhan - Vague I . Clearance of tissue plasminogen activator ( TPA ) and TPA / plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 ( PAI - 1 ) complex : relationship to elevated TPA antigen in patients with high PAI - 1 activity levels .
Circulation .
1997 Aug 5 ; 96 ( 3 ) : 761 - 8 .
• Huisman LG , van Griensven JM , Kluft C . On the role of C1 - inhibitor as inhibitor of tissue - type plasminogen activator in human plasma .
Thromb Haemost .
1995 Mar ; 73 ( 3 ) : 466 - 71 .
• Gurewich V , Pannell R . Recombinant human C1 - inhibitor prevents non - specific proteolysis by mutant pro - urokinase during optimal fibrinolysis .
Thromb Haemost .
2009 Aug ; 102 ( 2 ) : 279 - 86 .
• Caliezi C , Wuillemin WA , Zeerleder S , Redondo M , Eisele B , Hack CE .
C1 - esterase inhibitor : an anti - inflammatory agent and its potential use in the treatment of diseases other than hereditary angioedema .
Pharmacol Rev . 2000 Mar ; 52 ( 1 ) : 91 - 112 .
• German Medical Profession ’ s Drugs Committee [ Arzneimittelkommission der deutschen Arzteschaft ] .
Severe thrombus formation of Berinert ® HS [ Schwerwiegende Thrombenbildung nach Berinert ® HS ] .
Deutsches Ärzteblatt .
2000 April 2000 ; 97 ( Heft 15 ) : A - 1016 / : B - 864 / C - 182 .
• Horstick , G , Berg O , Heimann A , Gotze O , Loos M , Hafner G , et al .
Application of C1 - esterase inhibitor during reperfusion of ischemic myocardium : dose - related beneficial versus detrimental effects .
Circulation .
2001 Dec 18 ; 104 ( 25 ) : 3125 - 31 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How supplied • RUCONEST is supplied in single - use 25 mL glass vials with a stopper ( siliconized chlorobutyl rubber ) and a flip - off seal ( aluminum and colored plastic ) .
• Each carton contains one single - use vial .
• Each vial contains 2100 U rhC1INH lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection .
16 . 2 Storage and handling • Store in the original package in order to protect from light .
• Shelf life : 48 months when stored at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
• Do not freeze .
• Each vial of RUCONEST should be reconstituted with 14 mL Water for Injection ( not supplied ) .
The reconstituted solution contains 150 U / mL rhC1INH and is clear and colorless .
• Each vial of RUCONEST is for single use only .
RUCONEST contains no preservative .
Any product that has been reconstituted should be used immediately , or within 8 hours stored at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Discard partially used vials after treatment .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - Approved patient labeling ( Product Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Patients being treated with RUCONEST should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid the patient in the safe and effective use of RUCONEST .
• Advise female patients to notify their physician if they are pregnant or intend to become pregnant during the treatment of acute attacks of HAE with RUCONEST .
• Advise patients to notify their physician if they are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
• Inform patients of the risks and benefits of RUCONEST before prescribing or administering it to the patient .
Advise patients to immediately report : • Signs and symptoms of allergic hypersensitivity reactions , such as hives , urticaria , tightness of the chest , wheezing , hypotension and / or anaphylaxis experienced during or after injection of RUCONEST ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS / Hypersensitivity [ 5 ] ) .
Manufactured by : Pharming Technologies B . V . Darwinweg 24 NL - 2333 CR Leiden The Netherlands RUCONEST ® is a registered trademark of Pharming Group N . V . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Santarus , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Raleigh , NC 27615 Product protected by the following U . S patent Nos . 7 , 067 , 713 .
Please see www . salix . com for patent information .
US License No . 2012 [ MULTIMEDIA ] REV FEB 2015 VENART - 307 - 1 60002124 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] FDA - Approved Patient Labeling - Patient Product Information ( PPI ) RUCONEST ® ( ROO - Ko - nest ) ( C1 esterase inhibitor [ recombinant ] ) Lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection in a single - use vial This leaflet summarizes important information about RUCONEST .
Please read it carefully each time before using RUCONEST .
There may be new information provided .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider , and it does not include all of the important information about RUCONEST .
If you have any questions after reading this , ask your healthcare provider .
What is RUCONEST ?
RUCONEST is an injectable medicine that is used to treat acute angioedema attacks in adult and adolescent patients with Hereditary Angioedema ( HAE ) .
HAE is caused by a shortage of a protein called C1 esterase inhibitor , that is present in your blood and helps control inflammation ( swelling ) and parts of the immune system .
A shortage of C1 esterase inhibitor can lead to repeated attacks of swelling , pain in the abdomen , difficulty breathing and other symptoms .
RUCONEST contains C1 esterase inhibitor .
Who should not use RUCONEST ?
You should not use RUCONEST if you have a known or suspected allergy ( hypersensitivity ) to rabbits or rabbit - derived products .
You should not use RUCONEST if you have experienced life - threatening immediate hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , to RUCONEST or to any other C1 esterase inhibitor product .
RUCONEST is not indicated for use in children under the age of 13 years .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using RUCONEST ?
Tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have an allergy to rabbits since this can put you at high risk of a serious allergic reaction with RUCONEST .
These allergy symptoms could include runny nose , itchy nose , sneezing , coughing , wheezing , difficulty breathing or watery eyes when you are near rabbits .
• are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if RUCONEST can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if RUCONEST passes to your milk and if it can harm your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider and pharmacist about all of the medicines you take , including all prescription and non - prescription medicines such as over - the - counter medicines , supplements , or herbal remedies .
How is RUCONEST given ?
RUCONEST will be slowly injected into your vein ( intravenous injection ) .
Before injection , the RUCONEST powder must be dissolved using sterile Water for Injection .
The dose will be determined based on your weight .
Most of the time a single dose of RUCONEST is enough to treat an attack , but a second dose may be needed .
What are the possible side effects of RUCONEST ?
Like all medicines , RUCONEST can cause side effects , although not everybody gets them .
Allergic reactions may occur with RUCONEST .
Call your healthcare provider or the emergency department immediately if you have any of the following symptoms after receiving RUCONEST : • wheezing • difficulty breathing • chest tightness • turning blue ( look at lips and gums ) • fast heartbeat • swelling • faintness • rash • hives In clinical studies , the most severe side effect reported in a person who received RUCONEST was a severe allergic reaction in a subject who was allergic to rabbits .
Other side effects patients experienced during clinical research studies include : • headache • nausea • diarrhea These are not all the possible side effects of RUCONEST .
If any of the side effects get serious , or if you notice any side effects not listed in the leaflet , please inform your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You can also report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch or contact Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 ‑ 800 - 508 - 0024 .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about RUCONEST that is written for healthcare providers .
General Information about RUCONEST Do not use RUCONEST for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about RUCONEST that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information go to www . Salix . com or call 1 - 800 - 508 - 0024 .
PREPARATION OF MEDICATION AND MATERIALS Use aseptic ( sterile ) technique when preparing and administering RUCONEST .
Step 1 : Assemble supplies from medication box on a clean flat surface .
• 2 single - use vials of RUCONEST • Sterile Water for Injection ( diluent ) , 14 mL per vial of RUCONEST to be reconstituted .
• Alcohol swabs • 1 syringe , 30 mL • Needle - free , vented vial adapters ( or large bore needle ) .
Use a new vial adapter for each vial of RUCONEST and diluent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Inspect the RUCONEST vial .
Do not use if : • The protective cap is missing • The expiration date ( see label ) has passed [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Wash hands .
• Thoroughly wash and dry your hands [ MULTIMEDIA ] DOSAGE VERIFICATION Discuss this section with your healthcare provider to ensure that the correct dose of RUCONEST is administered .
• The dose of RUCONEST and volume ( mL ) of reconstituted solution to be administered is based on body weight shown in the chart below .
No more than 2 vials may be combined for a single dose .
Body weight RUCONEST dose for intravenous injection Volume ( mL ) of reconstituted solution ( 150 U / mL ) to be administered < 84 kg ( 185 . 2 lb ) 50 U per kg of body weight Body weight in kg divided by 3 ≥ 84 kg ( 185 . 2 lb ) 4200 U ( 2 vials ) 28 mL RECONSTITUTION The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the reconstitution of RUCONEST .
Step 1 : Ensure that the RUCONEST vials and the diluent vial are at room temperature ( range of 20 ° C - 25 ° C or 68 ° F - 77 ° F . ) The RUCONEST vial is for single - use only .
Step 2 : Place the 2 RUCONEST vials and the diluent vial on a flat surface and remove the flip caps on each vial • Wipe the vial stoppers with the alcohol swabs provided and allow to dry for 30 seconds .
• Do not blow on the stoppers after wiping .
• Do not touch the stopper with your hands , or allow it to touch any surface .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Peel back the covers from the clear plastic vial adapter packages .
• Leave the adapters in their packages .
Step 4 : While holding the adapter in its package , place the first adapter over the diluent vial and press down until the device snaps into place .
• Leave the package on the adapter until you are ready to attach the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Now , place a 2 nd adapter over a RUCONEST vial and press down until it snaps into place .
Repeat if your dose requires a 2 nd RUCONEST vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Lift the package away from the diluent adapter .
Step 7 : Remove syringe from package and withdraw sterile water for injection from the diluent vial .
• With vial on a flat surface , attach syringe to adapter on diluent vial by rotating syringe clockwise .
• Turn diluent vial upside down and slowly withdraw either 14 mL ( if using 1 RUCONEST vial ) or 28 mL ( if using 2 RUCONEST vials ) of diluent into syringe by gently pulling back on the plunger .
• There will still be some diluent left in the vial .
• Place the diluent vial back on a flat surface and detach syringe by gently pulling the syringe and rotating counterclockwise .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Transfer the diluent to the RUCONEST vial .
• Remove the package from the adapter connected to one of the RUCONEST vials .
• Attach the syringe holding the diluent to the adapter on the RUCONEST vial by inserting the tip into the adapter opening while firmly pushing and rotating the syringe clockwise .
• Slowly press 14 mL of diluent into the RUCONEST vial .
• Add the diluent slowly to avoid forceful impact on the powder .
• Note : Leave the syringe attached to the vial after adding the diluent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Swirl the vial to mix .
Do this slowly to avoid foaming .
Repeat Steps 8 and 9 if you are using a second RUCONEST vial .
Remove syringe from the first RUCONEST vial prior to attaching to the second vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : Inspect RUCONEST vial ( s ) visually .
• After reconstitution and prior to administration , inspect the RUCONEST vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
• The reconstituted solution should be colorless , clear , and free from visible particles .
• Do not use the vial if it looks cloudy , contains particles , or has changed color .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : With the syringe still connected to the RUCONEST vial , turn the vial upside down .
• Slowly withdraw your dose of RUCONEST by gently pulling back on the plunger .
• Once you have withdrawn your dose , turn the vial right side up and place on a flat surface .
Disconnect the syringe by gently pulling and rotating counterclockwise .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Repeat Step 11 and withdraw additional reconstituted RUCONEST from the second RUCONEST vial ( if needed ) .
• Withdraw only as much as is needed based on your body weight .
• Disconnect the syringe , for use as described in the next section .
SELF - ADMINISTRATION ( intravenous injection ) Your healthcare provider will teach you how to safely administer RUCONEST .
It is important that you inject RUCONEST directly into a visible vein .
Do not inject into surrounding tissues or an artery .
Once you learn how to self - administer , follow the instructions provided below .
The reconstituted solution should be used within 8 hours and should be cooled but not be frozen .
Step 1 : Assemble supplies .
• Gather the RUCONEST syringe , the following disposable supplies ( not provided with RUCONEST ) , and other items : • Standard butterfly catheter infusion set ( IV administration set with winged adapter and needle ) • Sterile syringe • Tourniquet • Sterile gauze and tape or transparent dressing • Bandage ( adhesive dressing ) • Gloves ( if recommended by your healthcare provider ) • Alcohol wipe for cleaning skin • Other items ( not shown ) • Clock or stopwatch to monitor time • Sharps or other disposal container • Treatment diary [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Clean surface .
• Thoroughly clean a table or other flat surface using one or more of the alcohol swabs .
Step 3 : Prime the infusion set .
As instructed by your healthcare provider : • To prime ( fill ) the infusion tubing , connect the syringe filled with RUCONEST to the infusion set tubing and gently push on the syringe plunger to fill the tubing with RUCONEST .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Prepare the approved IV injection site .
• Apply a tourniquet above the site of the infusion .
• Prepare the injection site by wiping the skin well with an alcohol swab , beginning at the center and working outward in a circular motion .
• Allow the site to dry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Start infusion .
Follow the instructions provided by your healthcare provider .
• Take off the needle sheath .
• Hold both wings of the butterfly between the thumb and the index finger with the obliquely cut ( slanted ) opening of the butterfly needle pointing upward .
• Insert the butterfly needle of the infusion set into your vein ( insert as flat to skin surface as possible ) .
• Use sterile gauze and tape or transparent dressing to hold the needle in place .
• Make sure the needle is in a vein : • Gently pull back on the syringe plunger and check to see if blood is in the tubing .
• If there is blood present , then the needle is in a vein .
• If there is no blood , remove the needle and repeat this step using a new needle , new administration tubing , and a different injection site .
• Remove the tourniquet .
• Note : Inject RUCONEST slowly over approximately 5 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Cover the injection site and clean up .
After all of the RUCONEST has been infused : • Withdraw the butterfly needle along the line that it was inserted .
• Cover the injection site with a bandage , holding pressure on the site for a few minutes .
• Dispose of all unused solution , empty vials , and used needles and syringe in an appropriate container used for medical waste .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] POST - ADMINISTRATION The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for after the infusion of RUCONEST .
Record each injection into treatment journal .
Record the lot number from the RUCONEST vial label .
• Enter the date and time of your injection .
This Patient Package Insert has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Pharming Technologies B . V . Darwinweg 24 NL - 2333 CR Leiden The Netherlands RUCONEST ® is a registered trademark of Pharming Group N . V . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Santarus , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Raleigh , NC 27615 Product protected by the following U . S patent Nos . 7 , 067 , 713 .
Please see www . salix . com for patent information .
US License No . 2012 [ MULTIMEDIA ] REV FEB 2015 VENART - 307 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel RUCONEST ® C1 esterase inhibitor ( recombinant ) 2100 U NDC 68012 - 350 - 01 For intravenous use only .
For single patient use .
See prescribing information for directions for use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
