Active ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % .................................................................... Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irriations , inflammation and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy , oak , sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • external genital , feminine and anal itching .
Other uses or the use of the product for more than 7 days should be undertaken only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings • for external use only • avoid contact with eyes Stop using this product and ask a doctor • if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • before you begin using any other hydrocortisone product Do not use this product and ask a doctor • if you have a vaginal discharge • before treating diaper rash • before using on children under 2 years of age Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep this carton .
It contains important information .
Directions • for adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor For external anal itching users • adults : when practical , cleanse affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thorughly ; gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissure or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• children under 12 years of age : cosult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature • Lot No .
and Exp .
Date : see box or see crimp of tube Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetanol , liquid paraffin , methylparaben , polyoxyethylene cethylether , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , psorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH , DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 Made in Korea [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
