Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each gram ) Benzocaine 20 . 0 % ( w / w ) Purpose Oral anesthetic Uses For the temporary relief of minor pain and sore mouth associated with toothache , minor dental procedures and irritations from dentures or orthodontic appliances .
Warnings For oral use only .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • rapid heart rate • dizziness or lightheadedness • headache • shortness of breath • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics , such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
If a skin reaction occrs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • for teething - any teething related indication will not be ab appropriate use of this product • in children under 2 years of age • for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • sore mouth does not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , fever or other allergic reaction develops When using this product • avoid contact with eyes Keep out of reach of children If accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children ( 2 years and older ) : • dry affected area and apply medication undiluted .
Use up to 4 times daily , but not more than every two hours , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 2 years of age : Do not use Other Information • Do not use if packet is torn , cut , or opened • Store at room temperature , 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) • tamper evident sealed packets Inactive Ingredients PEG 400 , PEG 3350 , peppermint oil , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid Questions or Comments ?
Call 800 . 234 . 1464 Moore Medical Orasol Gel 20 % Label mooremedical Supporting Health & Care Reorder No . 82474 UPN # 0 - 0607415 - 82474 - 2 MooreBrand ® Orasol Gel 20 % 75 Packets Each Packet Net .
Wt .
0 . 75 gm Temporary relief of minor pain and sore mouth .
Distributed by : Moore Medical LLC Farmington , CT 06032 Manufacturer 21305178 Made in India and USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
