Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % ( w / w ) Purpose Oral anesthetic Uses For the temporary relief of minor pain and sore mouth associated with toothache , minor dental procedures and irritations from dentures or orthodontic appliances .
Warnings For oral use only .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • rapid heart rate • dizziness or lightheadedness • headache • shortness of breath • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics , such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • for teething - any teething related indication will not be ab appropriate use of this product • in children under 2 years of age • for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if • sore mouth does not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , fever or other allergic reaction develops When using this product • avoid contact with eyes Keep out of reach of children .
If accidentally swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children ( 2 years and older ) : Dry affected area and apply medication undiluted .
Use up to 4 times daily , but not more than every two hours , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 2 years : Do not use Other information • do not use if packet is torn , cut or opened • store at room temperature : 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) • tamper evident sealed packets Inactive ingredients PEG 400 , PEG 3350 , peppermint oil , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 777 - 4908 NDC 68599 - 8247 - 4 McKesson Orasol Gel Individual Packets Benzocaine 20 % | Oral Anesthetic Temporary relief of minor pain and sore mouth .
NET WT 0 . 75 g 75 Packs Per Box Do Not Reuse MFR # 82474 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
