DESCRIPTION Sulfacetamide Sodium is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while Sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically Sulfacetamide Sodium is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyI ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Sulfacetamide Sodium USP 10 % and Sulfur USP 5 % contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide USP and 50 mg of Sulfur USP in a cream containing : Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Extract , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Camellia Oleifera ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Cetyl Alcohol , Disodium Oleamido MEA Sulfosuccinate , Edetate Disodium , Fragrance , Glycerin , Glyceryl Monostearate , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Methylparaben , PEG - 100 Stearate , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl Alcohol , Xanthan Gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sulfacetamide Sodium is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of Sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur cleanser is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur cleanser is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , Sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur cleanser is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to Sulfacetamide Sodium may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General lf irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Longterm studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur lotion .
It is also not known whether Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur cleanser can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur cleanser should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether sulfacetamide sodium is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur lotion .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sulfacetamide Sodium and Sulfur cleanser is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , Sulfacetamide Sodium may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use once daily or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin .
Apply in a film to entire face , avoiding contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wait 10 minutes or until dry .
Rinse thoroughly with water and pat dry .
HOW SUPPLIED Sulfacetamide Sodium 10 % and Sulfur 5 % cleanser is supplied in 6 oz ( 170 g ) tube NDC 42582 - 600 - 23 12 oz ( 340 g ) bottle NDC 42582 - 600 - 20 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however such exposure should be minimized .
Protect from freezing .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN Rx Only Manufactured for : Bi - Coastal Pharma International LLC Shrewsbury , New Jersey 07702 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 340 g Bottle Carton NDC # 42582 - 600 - 20 Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser For topical use only • Not for ophthalmic use Rx Only Bi - Coastal Pharma International LLC NET WT .
12 OZ .
( 340 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
