Warnings For external use only ; not to be swallowed Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes Avoid spraying into eyes or onto other mucous membranes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask physician if signs of irritation or rash appear If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DANGER EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE .
Contents under pressure .
Do not use near fire , heat or while smoking .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Store at temperature below 120 F ( 49 C ) .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misure by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Hard surfaces may become damp when product is sprayed .
Avoid slips or falls .
Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Active ingredients Zinc Oxide 9 . 0 % Sunscreen Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Sunscreen Directions SHAKE WELL before each use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure do not apply in windy conditions hold can ( upright or inverted ) 4 to 6 inches away from body and apply liberally , spraying slowly and evenly until product is visible on skin .
gently rub in do not spray into face .
Spray into hand and apply to the face .
use in well - ventilated areas reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures : Spending time int eh sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad - spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection meausres including : limit time in the sun , epsecially from 10 am - 2 pm wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses children under 6 months : Ask a physician Inactive Ingredients butylene glycol , capryloyl glycine , cyclopentasiloxane , dimethicone , dimethicone / PEG - 10 / 15 crosspolymer , dimethidcone / vinyl diemthicone crosspolymer , isobutane , lauryl PEG - 9 polymethylsiloxyethyl diemthicone , phenoxyethanol , propane , purified water , sodium chloride , triethoxycaprylylsilane , undecylenoyl glycine Artwork [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
