Indications & Usage : COMPLEX HQ + is indicated for the gradual lightening of hyperpigmented skin conditions , such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
Sunscreen must be used daily during COMPLEX HQ + treatment .
Purpose Skin Bleach Active Ingrdients HYDROQUINONE Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Warnings • A . Caution : Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
• Test for skin sensitivity before using Hydroquinone Cream by applying asmall amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check in 24 hours .
Minorredness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicleformation or excessive inflammatory response , further treatment is notadvised .
Close patient supervision is recommended . Contact with the eyes should be avoided .
In case of accidental contact , pa - tient should rinse eyes thoroughly with water and contact physician .
A bitter taste and anesthetic effect may occur if applied to lips .
Keep out of reach of children .
If no bleaching or lightening effect is noted after 2 months oftreatment use , Hydroquinone Cream should be discontinued .
This product isformulated for use as a skin bleaching agent and should not be used for the prevention of sunburn .
• Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of Hydroquinone therapy becauseeven minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
After clear - ing and during maintenance therapy , sun exposure should be avoided on bleached skin by application of a sunscreen or sunblock agent , or protective clothing to prevent repigmentation .
• There are no sunblocking or sunscreening agents in COMPLEX HQ + and since minimal sunlight exposure may reverse the bleaching effect of this preparation , it should be used only at night or on areas of the body covered by protective clothing .
During the daytime , sunblocking or broad spectrum sunscreen preparations or protective clothing should be used to prevent the bleached areas from repigmentation .
• Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
In case of ac - cidental ingestion , call a physician or a poison control center immediately .
• Warning : Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause serious allergic type reactions ( e . g . hives , itching , wheezing , anaphylaxis , severe asthma attacks ) in certain susceptible persons .
Drug Dosage and Administration : Apply a thin layer on the skin surface in the affected areas twice a day or as directed by physician .
Use of this productshould be discontinued after 3 months of treatment if no improvement is observed .
The lightening effect may not be noticeable when used on very dark skin . Sun exposure should be avoided .
DNA Damage ControlTM [ EVERYDAY | BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 44 ] or other broad spectrum sunscreen or protective clothing should be used to prevent reoccurring hyperpigmentation .
Inactive Ingridients Ascorbic Acid , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Cetyl Alcohol , Edetate Disodium , Fragrance , Glycerin , Glycolic Acid , Methylparaben , Propyl - paraben , Purified Water , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Sodium Metabisulfite , Stearyl Alcohol , Vitamin E Acetate .
Product label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
