Active Ingredient Coal Tar 2 % ( from Coal Tar Topical Solution , USP 20 % ) Purpose Psoriasis / Seborrheic Dermatitis Treatment Uses For the relief of symptoms of psoriasis and / or seborrheic dermatitis including itching , scaling , flaking , redness and irriation of the skin .
Helps prevent recurrence .
Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use • for prolonged periods • if condition covers a large area of the body • with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • condition does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product , as it may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application .
Warning : This product contains chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control cente right away .
Directions After cleansing , apply Psoriasin In - Shower Treatment to affected areas on body and scalp .
Avoid applying to bottom of feet .
Leave on for at least 2 minutes , then rinse off and gently towel dry .
For best results , use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor .
The active ingredient , coal tar , in Psoriasin may affect very light hair color ; test first on a few strands of hair before broader application to areas where light - colored hair is present .
For use by normally healthy adults only ; persons under 18 years of age or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as idrected by a doctor .
Other Information You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Inactive ingredients Aloe vera gel , capylic / capric triglycerides , cetearyl alcohol , citric acid anhydrous , Dead Sea salts , ethanol , glycerin , glyceryl stearate SE , lavender oil , myristyl alcohol , oatmeal extract , olive oil , PEG - 100 stearate , petrolatum , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 80 , shea oil , stearyl alcohol , sweet almond oil , water .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 792 - 2582 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
