Suicidality and Antidepressant Drugs Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents and young adults in short - term studies of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of doxepin or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
Doxepin is not approved for use in pediatric patients .
( See WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk , PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use . )
DESCRIPTION Doxepin hydrochloride is one of a class of psychotherapeutic agents known as dibenzoxepin tricyclic compounds .
The molecular formula of the compound is C 19 H 21 NO ∙ HCl having a molecular weight of 315 . 84 .
It is a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water , in ethanol ( 96 % ) , and methylene chloride .
It may be represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemically , doxepin hydrochloride is a dibenzoxepin derivative and is the first of a family of tricyclic psychotherapeutic agents .
Specifically , it is an isomeric mixture of 1 - Propanamine , 3 - dibenz [ b , e ] oxepin - 11 ( 6 H ) ylidene - N , N - dimethyl - hydrochloride .
Each 10 mg , 25 mg , 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg doxepin capsule for oral administration contains doxepin hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 10 mg , 25 mg , 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg of doxepin , respectively and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The empty gelatin capsule shells contain gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 10 mg empty gelatin capsule shells contain iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow , the 25 mg and 50 mg empty gelatin capsule shells contain D & C Yellow 10 and FD & C Yellow 6 , and the 75 mg and 100 mg empty gelatin capsule shells contain D & C Yellow 10 and FD & C Blue 1 .
The imprinting ink may contain ferrosoferric oxide , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanism of action of doxepin is not definitely known .
It is not a central nervous system stimulant nor a monoamine oxidase inhibitor .
The current hypothesis is that the clinical effects are due , at least in part , to influences on the adrenergic activity at the synapses so that deactivation of norepinephrine by reuptake into the nerve terminals is prevented .
Animal studies suggest that doxepin does not appreciably antagonize the antihypertensive action of guanethidine .
In animal studies anticholinergic , antiserotonin and antihistamine effects on smooth muscle have been demonstrated .
At higher than usual clinical doses norepinephrine response was potentiated in animals .
This effect was not demonstrated in humans .
At clinical dosages up to 150 mg per day , doxepin can be given to man concomitantly with guanethidine and related compounds without blocking the antihypertensive effect .
At dosages above 150 mg per day blocking of the antihypertensive effect of these compounds has been reported .
Doxepin is virtually devoid of euphoria as a side effect .
Characteristic of this type of compound , doxepin has not been demonstrated to produce the physical tolerance or psychological dependence associated with addictive compounds .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP are recommended for the treatment of : • Psychoneurotic patients with depression and / or anxiety .
• Depression and / or anxiety associated with alcoholism ( not to be taken concomitantly with alcohol ) .
• Depression and / or anxiety associated with organic disease ( the possibility of drug interaction should be considered if the patient is receiving other drugs concomitantly ) .
• Psychotic depressive disorders with associated anxiety including involutional depression and manic - depressive disorders .
The target symptoms of psychoneurosis that respond particularly well to doxepin hydrochloride capsules include anxiety , tension , depression , somatic symptoms and concerns , sleep disturbances , guilt , lack of energy , fear , apprehension and worry .
Clinical experience has shown that doxepin hydrochloride capsules are safe and well tolerated even in the elderly patient .
Owing to lack of clinical experience in the pediatric population , doxepin hydrochloride capsules are not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug .
Possibility of cross sensitivity with other dibenzoxepines should be kept in mind .
Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with glaucoma or a tendency to urinary retention .
These disorders should be ruled out , particularly in older patients .
WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 to 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short - term trials of nine antidepressant drugs in over 4 , 400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs . placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug - placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1 , 000 patients treated ) are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality Per 1 , 000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to healthcare providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for doxepin should be written for the smallest number of capsules consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that doxepin is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Angle - Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including doxepin hydrochloride capsules may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy .
Geriatric Use The use of doxepin on a once a day dosage regimen in geriatric patients should be adjusted carefully based on the patient ' s condition ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , rabbits , monkeys and dogs and there was no evidence of harm to the animal fetus .
The relevance to humans is not known .
Since there is no experience in pregnant women who have received this drug , safety in pregnancy has not been established .
There has been a report of apnea and drowsiness occurring in a nursing infant whose mother was taking doxepin .
Pediatric Use The use of doxepin in children under 12 years of age is not recommended because safe conditions for its use have not been established .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with doxepin and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide about " Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and Other Serious Mental Illnesses and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions " is available for doxepin .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescriber if these occur while taking doxepin .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients , their families and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to look for the emergence of such symptoms on a day to day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ' s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
Patients should be advised that taking doxepin hydrochloride capsules can cause mild pupillary dilation , which in susceptible individuals , can lead to an episode of angle - closure glaucoma .
Pre - existing glaucoma is almost always open - angle glaucoma because angle - closure glaucoma , when diagnosed , can be treated definitively with iridectomy .
Open - angle glaucoma is not a risk factor for angle - closure glaucoma .
Patients may wish to be examined to determine whether they are susceptible to angle closure , and have a prophylactic procedure ( e . g . , iridectomy ) , if they are susceptible .
Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( debrisoquin hydroxylase ) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population ( about 7 % to 10 % of Caucasians are so called " poor metabolizers " ) ; reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian , African and other populations are not yet available .
Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) when given usual doses .
Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6 , the increase in plasma concentration may be small , or quite large ( 8 - fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA ) .
In addition , certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers .
An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy .
The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme ( quinidine ; cimetidine ) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 ( many other antidepressants , phenothiazines , and the Type 1 C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide ) .
While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , e . g . , citalopram , escitalopram , fluoxetine , sertraline , and paroxetine , inhibit P450 2D6 , they may vary in the extent of inhibition .
The extent to which SSRI - TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved .
Nevertheless , caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other .
Of particular importance , sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine , given the long half - life of the parent and active metabolite ( at least 5 weeks may be necessary ) .
Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug .
Furthermore , whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from cotherapy , an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required .
It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be coadministered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6 .
Doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 ( with CYP1A2 & CYP3A4 as minor pathways ) .
Inhibitors or substrates of CYP2D6 ( i . e . , quinidine , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [ SSRIs ] ) may increase the plasma concentration of doxepin when administered concomitantly .
The extent of interaction depends on the variability of effect on CYP2D6 .
The clinical significance of this interaction with doxepin has not been systematically evaluated .
MAO Inhibitors Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors .
Therefore , MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least 2 weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with doxepin .
The exact length of time may vary and is dependent upon the particular MAO inhibitor being used , the length of time it has been administered , and the dosage involved .
Cimetidine Cimetidine has been reported to produce clinically significant fluctuations in steady - state serum concentrations of various tricyclic antidepressants .
Serious anticholinergic symptoms ( i . e . , severe dry mouth , urinary retention and blurred vision ) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressant when cimetidine therapy is initiated .
Additionally , higher than expected tricyclic antidepressant levels have been observed when they are begun in patients already taking cimetidine .
In patients who have been reported to be well controlled on tricyclic antidepressants receiving concurrent cimetidine therapy , discontinuation of cimetidine has been reported to decrease established steady - state serum tricyclic antidepressant levels and compromise their therapeutic effects .
Alcohol It should be borne in mind that alcohol ingestion may increase the danger inherent in any intentional or unintentional doxepin overdosage .
This is especially important in patients who may use alcohol excessively .
Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide ( 1 gm / day ) 11 days after the addition of doxepin ( 75 mg / day ) .
Drowsiness Since drowsiness may occur with the use of this drug , patients should be warned of the possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking the drug .
Patients should also be cautioned that their response to alcohol may be potentiated .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of doxepin and observed closely ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) .
Suicide Since suicide is an inherent risk in any depressed patient and may remain so until significant improvement has occurred , patients should be closely supervised during the early course of therapy .
Prescriptions should be written for the smallest feasible amount .
Psychosis Should increased symptoms of psychosis or shift to manic symptomatology occur , it may be necessary to reduce dosage or add a major tranquilizer to the dosage regimen .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established ( see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ) .
Anyone considering the use of doxepin in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need .
Geriatric Use A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of doxepin included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of doxepin has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of doxepin and observed closely .
( See WARNINGS . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS NOTE : Some of the adverse reactions noted below have not been specifically reported with doxepin use .
However , due to the close pharmacological similarities among the tricyclics , the reactions should be considered when prescribing doxepin .
Anticholinergic Effects Dry mouth , blurred vision , constipation and urinary retention have been reported .
If they do not subside with continued therapy or become severe , it may be necessary to reduce the dosage .
Central Nervous System Effects Drowsiness is the most commonly noticed side effect .
This tends to disappear as therapy is continued .
Other infrequently reported CNS side effects are confusion , disorientation , hallucinations , numbness , paresthesias , ataxia , extrapyramidal symptoms , seizures , tardive dyskinesia and tremor .
Cardiovascular Cardiovascular effects including hypotension , hypertension and tachycardia have been reported occasionally .
Allergic Skin rash , edema , photosensitization and pruritus have occasionally occurred .
Hematologic Eosinophilia has been reported in a few patients .
There have been occasional reports of bone marrow depression manifesting as agranulocytosis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia and purpura .
Gastrointestinal Nausea , vomiting , indigestion , taste disturbances , diarrhea , anorexia and aphthous stomatitis have been reported .
( See Anticholinergic Effects . )
Endocrine Raised or lowered libido , testicular swelling , gynecomastia in males , enlargement of breasts and galactorrhea in the female , raising or lowering of blood sugar levels and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion have been reported with tricyclic administration .
Other Dizziness , tinnitus , weight gain , sweating , chills , fatigue , weakness , flushing , jaundice , alopecia , headache , exacerbation of asthma , angle closure glaucoma , mydriasis and hyperpyrexia ( in association with chlorpromazine ) have been occasionally observed as adverse effects .
Withdrawal Symptoms The possibility of development of withdrawal symptoms upon abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged doxepin administration should be borne in mind .
These are not indicative of addiction and gradual withdrawal of medication should not cause these symptoms .
OVERDOSAGE Deaths may occur from overdosage with this class of drugs .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate tricyclic antidepressant overdose .
As the management is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity develop rapidly after tricyclic antidepressant overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
Manifestations Critical manifestations of overdose include : cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions and CNS depression , including coma .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic antidepressant toxicity .
Other signs of overdose may include : confusion , disturbed concentration , transient visual hallucinations , dilated pupils , agitation , hyperactive reflexes , stupor , drowsiness , muscle rigidity , vomiting , hypothermia , hyperpyrexia , or any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Deaths have been reported involving overdoses of doxepin .
General Recommendations General Obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ' s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
A minimum of 6 hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is strongly advised .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is recommended .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose ; these patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of tricyclic antidepressant overdose should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage .
Emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO 2 < 20 mm Hg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in tricyclic antidepressant poisoning .
CNS In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines , or if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - up Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of child and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients with illness of mild to moderate severity , a starting daily dose of 75 mg is recommended .
Dosage may subsequently be increased or decreased at appropriate intervals and according to individual response .
The usual optimum dose range is 75 mg / day to 150 mg / day .
In more severely ill patients higher doses may be required with subsequent gradual increase to 300 mg / day if necessary .
Additional therapeutic effect is rarely to be obtained by exceeding a dose of 300 mg / day .
In patients with very mild symptomatology or emotional symptoms accompanying organic disease , lower doses may suffice .
Some of these patients have been controlled on doses as low as 25 to 50 mg / day .
The total daily dosage of doxepin ( as the hydrochloride ) may be given on a divided or once a day dosage schedule .
If the once a day schedule is employed , the maximum recommended dose is 150 mg / day .
This dose may be given at bedtime .
The 150 mg capsule strength is intended for maintenance therapy only and is not recommended for initiation of treatment .
Antianxiety effect is apparent before the antidepressant effect .
Optimal antidepressant effect may not be evident for 2 to 3 weeks .
HOW SUPPLIED The 10 mg capsule is a hard - shell , gelatin capsule with a tan opaque cap and tan opaque body , axially printed with TARO over D10 in black ink on both the cap and the body .
They are available as follows : NDC : 70518 - 3020 - 00 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 Dispense with Medication Guide available at : https : / / www . taro . com / usa - medication - guides Medication Guide Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and Other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with your or your family member ' s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ' s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
1 .
Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
2 .
Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
3 .
How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for all antidepressants .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc . 625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood • Visual problems : eye pain , changes in vision , swelling or redness in or around the eye • Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Visual problems : Only some people are at risk for these problems .
You may want to undergo an eye examination to see if you are at risk and receive preventative treatment if you are .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ' s healthcare provider for more information .
DRUG : DOXEPIN HYDROCHLORIDE GENERIC : DOXEPIN HYDROCHLORIDE DOSAGE : CAPSULE ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 3020 - 0 COLOR : brown SHAPE : CAPSULE SCORE : No score SIZE : 14 mm IMPRINT : TARO ; D10 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • DOXEPIN HYDROCHLORIDE 10 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • SILICON DIOXIDE • GELATIN , UNSPECIFIED • MAGNESIUM STEARATE • MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE • STARCH , CORN • SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE • TITANIUM DIOXIDE • FERRIC OXIDE RED • FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW • FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE • POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE • PROPYLENE GLYCOL • SHELLAC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
