Active ingredients Chlorhexidine gluconate 3 . 15 % w / v Isopropyl alcohol 70 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Antiseptic Use for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to an injection Warnings • For external use only • Flammable , keep away from fire or flame • Do not use with electrocautery procedures Allergy Alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may inlcude : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash if an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredients in this product • for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser • under occlusive patch When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , mouth and mucous membranes .
May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• maximum treatment area for one swab is approximately 2 . 5 by 2 . 5 inches ( 6 by 6 cm ) • tear open packet and remove swab .
Do not unfold swab .
• prior to injection , apply swab to the procedure site by holding swab between thumb and index finger .
Apply swab to skin using repeated back - and - forth strokes for 15 seconds .
• allow the prepped area to air dry for 30 seconds • do not blot or wipe dry • discard after a single use Other information • store between 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) • for hospital and professional use only Inactive ingredients USP purified water Package / Label Principal Display Panel Reorder No .
B11400 NDC 10819 - 1080 - 2 Prevantics ( R ) Swab Chlorhexidine Gluconate ( 3 . 15 % ) and Isopropyl Alcohol ( 70 % ) swab Antiseptic Non - Sterile Solution Packagind is sterile when in sterile kits For external use only Use for the prepration of the patient ' s skin prior to an injection Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can case skin infection For hospital and profesional use only Latex free IMPORTANT : See insert for complete Drug Facts and safety information .
Packet label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Insert [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
