Active ingredients Chlorhexidine gluconate 3 . 15 % w / v Isopropyl alcohol 70 % v / v Purposes Antiseptic Antiseptic Use for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery or injection Warnings • For external use only • Flammable , keep away from fire or flame • Do not use with electrocautery procedures Allergy alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser • under occlusive patch When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , mouth and mucous membranes .
May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• maximum treatment area for one maxi swabstick is approximately : dry site : 7 by 7 inches ( 18 by 18 cm ) or moist site : 3 by 7 . 5 inches ( 7 . 5 by 19 cm ) • open the pouch to expose the swabstick • remove swabstick from package .
Do not touch the foam tip .
• prior to surgery or injection , apply one flat side of foam tip to the proposed skin site and prep the skin in vigorous back - and - forth repeated strokes , turning the swabstick over ( unused side of the foam tip ) hlf way in the procedure • dry site : scrub repeatedly back and forth for 15 seconds with each side of the applicator for a total of 30 seconds .
Allow to air dry for approximately 30 seconds .
• moist site : scrub repeatedly back and forth for 1 minute with each side of the applicator for a total of 2 minutes .
Allow to air dry for approximately 1 . 5 minutes .
• do not blot or wipe dry • discard after a single use Other information • store between 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) • for hospital and professional use only Inactive ingredients USP purified water Package / Label Principal Display Panel Prevantics ( R ) Maxi Swabstick [ Chlorhexidine Gluconate ( 3 . 15 % ) and Isopropyl Alcohol ( 70 % ) Swab ] Patient preoperative skin preparation Non - sterile solution • For external use only • Single step , broad spectrum , persistent antiseptic that significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on intact skin • Use for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery or injection • Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection • Latex free • For hospital and professional use only • IMPORTANT : See carton for complete Drug Factsand safety information .
Packet Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packet ( bulk ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Insert : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
