Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr , 10 mg Guaifenesin , 100 mg Purposes Cough Suppressant Expectorant Uses • temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make cough more productive and drain bronchial tubes Warnings Do not use if your child is now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a breathing problem or persistent or chronic cough that lasts such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor or pharmacist if the child has • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • cough comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product • do not use more than directed .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 hour period • use enclosed dosing cup • keep dosing cup for use with this product • mL = milliliters children under 2 years Consult a doctor children 2 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL every 4 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 4 hours children 12 years and over 10 mL every 4 hours Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • close cap tightly • SAVE CARTON FOR COMPLETE DRUG FACTS Inactive ingredients Citric acid , flavor , D & C red # 33 , flavor , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , and sucrose Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 787 - 848 - 9114 , Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST .
Call your doctor for medical advice in the event of side effects .
Tamper evident : do not use if safety seal is broken or missing MANUFACTURED FOR GIL PHARMACEUTICAL CORP .
PONCE , PUERTO RICO 00717 - 1565 Children ' s GILTUSS ® COUGH & CHEST CONGESTION ANTITUSSIVE AND EXPECTORANT Non - Drowsy .
Alcohol Free • COUGH AND COLD • CHEST CONGESTION • LIQUIFIES AND LOOSENS PHLEGM AND MUCUS RASPBERRY FLAVOR 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
