Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 30 mL ) Benzocaine , 6 . 5 % ( 1950 mg ) Zinc Chloride , 0 . 12 % ( 36 mg ) Menthol , 0 . 1 % ( 30 mg ) Purposes Anesthetic Astringent Anesthetic Warnings Do not use • IN OR NEAR THE EYES .
In the event of accidental contact with the eyes , flush immediately and continuously for 10 minutes .
Seek immediate medical attention if pain or irritation persists • this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor or a dentist Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have • a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics When using this product , do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , swelling , rash , nausea , or vomiting • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or increases , or a rash appears on the skin If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • Spray Giltuss Bucalsep several times to affected areas in the mouth or lips or as directed by a doctor or dentist • use as a gargle or mouthwash • gargle , swish around in the mouth , or allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out • use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a doctor or dentist • Children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information • Tamper evident : Do not use if safety seal is broken or missing • Store at room temperature Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 848 - 9114 , Mon . - Fri . 9 : 00 a . m . thru 5 : 00 p . m . EST .
Call your doctor for medical advice in the event of side effects .
Inactive ingredients : Cetylpyridinium chloride , Spearmint Flavor , Glycerin , Methylparaben , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sucralose MANUFACTURED FOR : GIL PHARMACEUTICAL CORP .
PONCE , PUERTO RICO 00717 - 1565 giltuss . com Uses • for the temporary relief of occasional minor irritations , pain , sore mouth , sore throat , pain associated with canker sores , pain due to minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums , pain due to dental procedures , pain due to minor irritations caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances , sore gums MAXIMUM STRENGTH Oral Spray Giltuss BUCALSEP ® SORE THROAT AND ORAL INFECTIONS ALCOHOL FREE .
SUGAR FREE .
DYE FREE RELIEVES • SORE THROAT • THROAT INFECTION • CANKER SORES • OTHER ORAL PAINS AND INJURIES SPEARMINT FLAVOR 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
