Active Ingredient In each ( 3 tsp ) 15 ml Dextromethorphan HBr , USP 20 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Uses • Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold .
Warnings Do not use if you are now taking prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric ; or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or a pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you • have cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • have cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 period .
Use enclosed dose cup .
Adults and children 12 years and over 15 mL ( 3 tsp ) every 4 hours Children under 12 years do not use Other Information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • packaged with tamper - evident seal under the cap • contains no alcohol • each 15 mL contains 5 mg sodium Inactive ingredients beechwood creosote , caramel , citric acid , corn syrup , menthol , potassium sorbate , purified water , sodium benzoate , sucrose Questions or Comments Call 8 am - 4 pm Est .
Mon - Fri . 1 - 404 - 566 - 8896 Money Back Guarantee Guaranteed to give desired results or your money back .
Send carton top , reason for dissatisfaction , sales receipt , lot number , and your phone number to Socius Care , LLC 3939 Royal Dr . NW , Suite 230 , Kennesaw , GA 30144 How Creomulsion Cough Medicine Works ?
The Creomulsion Cough Medicine contains a safe and effective cough suppressant which acts by temporarily calming the cough control center to relieve coughs .
Its rich , traditional base coats and soothes raw , irritated membranes .
It contains no dyes , no alcohol , and no artificial sweeteners .
Image of Carton and Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
