Warning : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
DESCRIPTION : CitraNatal Bloom TM is a prescription prenatal / postnatal multi - vitamin / mineral tablet with Ferr - Ease ® , a patented dual - iorn delivery comprising both a quick release and slow release iron .
CitraNatal Bloom is a green , modified rectangle shaped , film - coated tablet , debossed with “ CB ” on one side and blank on the other .
Iron ( Carbonyl iron , ferrous gluconate ) 90 mg Folic Acid 1 mg Vitamin B 12 ( Cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Vitamin C ( Ascorbic acid ) 120 mg Docusate sodium 50 mg Inactive Ingredients : Povidone , croscarmellose sodium , acrylic resin , color added , magnesium stearate , FD & C Yellow No . 5 , magnesium silicate , FD & C Blue No . 1 , polyethylene glycol , vitamin A palmitate , ethyl vanillin .
INDICATIONS CitraNatal Bloom is a multi - vitamin / mineral prescription drug indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and in the postnatal period for both lactating and nonlactating mothers .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNING : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemia where vitamin B 12 is deficient .
PRECAUTIONS : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily or as directed by a physician .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Contact with moisture can discolor or erode the tablet .
HOW SUPPLIED : Bottles of 30 tablets each — ( NDC 0178 - 0813 - 30 ) .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 800 ) 298 - 1087 .
MISSION PHARMACAL COMPANY , San Antonio , TX 78230 1355 CitraNatal Bloom Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
