DESCRIPTION Each green film - coated tablet for oral administration contains : Iron ( Carbonyl iron , ferrous gluconate ) 90 mg Folic Acid 1 1 mg Vitamin B 12 ( Cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Vitamin C ( Ascorbic acid ) 120 mg Docusate sodium 50 50 mg Inactive Ingredients : Povidone , croscarmellose sodium , acrylic resin , color added , magnesium stearate , FD & C Yellow No . 5 , magnesium silicate , FD & C Blue No . 1 , polyethylene glycol , vitamin A palmitate , ethyl vanillin .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oral iron is absorbed most efficiently when administered between meals .
Iron is critical for normal hemoglobin synthesis to maintain oxygen transport energy production and proper function of cells .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for effective erythropoiesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several essential enzymes , including cytochromes , which are involved in electron transport .
Folic acid is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal erythropoiesis .
Folic acid is the precursor of tetrahydrofolic acid , which is involved as a cofactor for transformylation reactions in the biosynthesis of purines and thymidylates of nucleic acids .
Deficiency of folic acid may account for the defective deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) synthesis that leads to megaloblast formation and megaloblastic macrocytic anemias .
Vitamin B 12 is essential to growth , cell reproduction , hematopoiesis , nucleic acid , and myelin synthesis .
Deficiency may result in megaloblastic anemia or pernicious anemia .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ferralet ® 90 is indicated for the treatment of all anemias that are responsive to oral iron therapy .
These include : hypochromic anemia associated with pregnancy , chronic and / or acute blood loss , metabolic disease , postsurgical convalescence , and dietary needs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Hemolytic anemia , hemochromatosis , and hemosiderosis are contraindications to iron therapy .
WARNING Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B 12 is deficient .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
PRECAUTIONS General Take 2 hours after meals .
Do not exceed recommended dose .
Discontinue use if symptoms of intolerance appear .
The type of anemia and underlying cause or causes should be determined before starting therapy with Ferralet ® 90 tablets .
Ensure Hgb , Hct , reticulocyte count are determined before starting therapy and periodically thereafter during prolonged treatment .
Periodically review therapy to determine if it needs to be continued without change or if a dose change is indicated .
This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine , which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Folic Acid Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using these products since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Dosing for elderly patients should be cautious .
Due to the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy , dosing should start at the lower end of the dosing range .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritation , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and dark stools .
Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Prescriber should be aware of a number of iron / drug interactions , including antacids , tetracyclines , or fluoroquinolones .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms : abdominal pain , metabolic acidosis , anuria , CNS damage , coma , convulsions , death , dehydration , diffuse vascular congestion , hepatic cirrohosis , hypotension , hypothermia , lethargy , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , tarry stools , melena , hematemesis , tachycardia , hyperglycemia , drowsiness , pallor , cyanosis , lassitude , seizures , and shock .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily or as directed by a physician .
NOTICE Contact with moisture can discolor or erode the tablet .
Do not chew tablet .
HOW SUPPLIED Ferralet ® 90 ( NDC 0178 - 0089 - 90 ) is a green , modified rectangle shaped , film - coated tablet , debossed with " F6 " on one side and blank on the other , and packaged in bottles of 90 .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature . )
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 210 ) 696 - 8400 .
If you have questions about Ferralet ® 90 please call : 1 ( 800 ) 531 - 3333 MISSION PHARMACAL COMPANY San Antonio , TX USA 78230 1355 www . missionpharmacal . com Copyright © 2020 Mission Pharmacal Company .
All rights reserved L00890R0520 Ferralet ® 90 90 mg Dual - Iron Delivery RX ONLY THERAPEUTIC GUIDELINES FOR THE PATIENT Some facts you should know about Iron Deficiency Anemia Iron Deficiency Anemia , or IDA , is a common type of anemia .
It ' s a condition in which blood lacks an adequate supply of healthy red blood cells .
These cells carry oxygen to tissues .
It is oxygenated blood that gives your body energy and your skin a healthy color .
As the name suggests , Iron Deficiency Anemia results from insufficient iron .
Your body needs iron to make a substance called hemoglobin .
It ' s the hemoglobin in red blood cells that enables them to carry oxygen .
What causes IDA ?
There are many causes of IDA .
These include : • A diet consistently low in iron • Blood loss due to heavy menstrual bleeding • Poor iron absorption from food due to intestinal surgery or diseases of the intestine • Pregnancy ( when the need for iron increases significantly ) Women in general are at higher risk of IDA , not only because they lose blood during menstruation but also because their bodies store less iron .
How common is it ?
IDA is a common nutritional deficiency , with women most widely affected .
Up to 20 % of women have IDA .
What are the symptoms ?
Some of the symptoms most commonly associated with IDA are fatigue , weakness , and headache .
Symptoms may also include light - headedness , pale skin , shortness of breath , and cold hands and feet , among others .
As the body becomes more deficient in iron and anemia worsens , the symptoms worsen as well .
How is IDA diagnosed ?
A diagnosis is made primarily through blood tests .
The doctor checks your hematocrit , the percentage of your blood volume made up of red blood cells and hemoglobin .
A lower than normal hemoglobin level indicates anemia .
Also , blood tests for IDA typically include a measurement of ferritin , a protein that helps store iron in your body .
When the level of ferritin is low , usually the level of iron is , too .
If a patient tests positive for IDA , additional tests may be ordered to identify an underlying cause .
Does IDA lead to health complications ?
Mild cases of IDA usually do n't cause complications .
However , left untreated , IDA can increase in severity and contribute to serious health problems .
For example , it may lead to a rapid or irregular heartbeat , a complicated pregnancy that can put the mother at risk for a premature delivery or low - birth - weight baby , and delayed growth in infants and children .
The good news is that , because IDA is easily treatable , its potential health consequences are generally avoidable .
How is IDA treated ?
It ' s essential to increase the amount of iron in your diet .
Foods rich in iron include meat , fish , poultry , and whole grain breads .
However , in most cases of IDA , diet alone is n't enough to correct the problem .
Iron supplementation is usually needed for several months .
Your doctor has prescribed Ferralet ® 90 , a safe and effective iron supplement to help restore your body ' s iron to normal levels .
Plus , it offers the convenience of once - daily dosing .
Together with an iron - rich diet , taking Ferralet ® 90 every day can make a big difference in helping restore your body ' s iron , and with it your energy and overall feeling of well - being .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0178 - 0089 - 90 Rx Only Ferralet ® 90 90 mg Dual - Iron Delivery 90 Coated Tablets MISSION ® PHARMACAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
