DESCRIPTION Acetohydroxamic acid ( AHA ) is a stable , synthetic compound derived from hydroxylamine and ethyl acetate .
Its molecular structure is similar to urea : [ MULTIMEDIA ] AHA is weakly acidic , highly soluble in water , and chelates metals - notably iron .
The molecular weight is 75 . 068 .
AHA has a pKa of 9 . 32 and a melting point of 89 - 91 ° C . AHA is a urease inhibitor .
Available as 250 mg tablets .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY AHA reversibly inhibits the bacterial enzyme urease , thereby inhibiting the hydrolysis of urea and production of ammonia in urine infected with urea - splitting organisms .
The reduced ammonia levels and decreased pH enhance the effectiveness of antimicrobial agents and allow an increased cure rate of these infections .
AHA is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration ; peak blood levels occur from 0 . 25 to 1 hour after dosing .
The compound is distributed throughout body water , and there is no known binding to any tissue .
AHA chelates with dietary iron within the gut .
This reaction may interfere with absorption of AHA and with iron .
Concomitant hypochromic anemia should be treated with intramuscular iron .
In rodents , the metabolic fate of AHA is well known ; 55 % is excreted unchanged in urine , 25 % is excreted as acetamide or acetate and 7 % is excreted by the lungs as carbon dioxide .
Less than 1 % is excreted in the feces .
Approximately 5 % of the administered dose is unaccounted for .
In rodents , AHA shows a dose - related change in pharmacokinetics ; with increasing dose , there is an increase in the half - life and an increase in the percent of the administered dose recovered in urine as unchanged AHA .
Pharmacokinetics in man are generally similar to rodents including the dose - related increase in half - life , but they are not as well characterized as in the rodent .
Thirty - six to sixty - five percent ( 36 - 65 % ) of the oral dosage is excreted unchanged in the urine .
It is unaltered AHA in the urine that provides the therapeutic effect , but the precise concentration of AHA in urine that is necessary to inhibit urease is incompletely delineated .
Therapeutic benefit may be obtained from concentrations as low as 8 mcg / ml ; higher concentrations ( i . e . , 30 mcg / ml ) are expected to provide more complete inhibition of urease .
The plasma half - life of AHA is approximately 5 - 10 hours in subjects with normal renal function and is prolonged in patients with reduced renal function .
Acetohydroxamic acid has been evaluated clinically in patients with urea - splitting urinary infections , often accompanied by struvite stone disease , that were recalcitrant to other forms of medical and surgical management .
In these clinical trials , AHA reduced the pathologically elevated urinary ammonia and pH levels that result from the hydrolysis of urea by the enzyme , urease .
AHA does not acidify urine directly nor does it have a direct antibacterial effect .
The usefulness of reducing ammonia levels and decreasing urinary pH is suggested by single ( not yet replicated ) clinical trials in which urease inhibition 1 ) allowed successful antibiotic treatment of urea - splitting Proteus infections after surgical removal of struvite stones in patients not cured by 3 months of antibacterial treatment alone , and 2 ) reduced the rate of stone growth in patients who were not candidates for surgical removal of stones .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acetohydroxamic acid is indicated as adjunctive therapy in patients with chronic urea - splitting urinary infection .
AHA is intended to decrease urinary ammonia and alkalinity , but it should not be used in lieu of curative surgical treatment ( for patients with stones ) or antimicrobial treatment .
Long - term treatment with AHA may be warranted to maintain urease inhibition as long as urea - splitting infection is present .
Experience with AHA does not go beyond 7 years .
A patient package insert should be distributed to each patient who receives AHA .
Acetohydroxamic acid should not be used in : a . patients whose physical state and disease are amenable to definitive surgery and appropriate antimicrobial agents b . patients whose urine is infected by non - urease producing organisms c . patients whose urinary infections can be controlled by culture - specific oral antimicrobial agents d . patients whose renal function is poor ( i . e . , serum creatinine more than 2 . 5 mg / dl and / or creatinine clearance less than 20 ml / min ) e . female patients who do not evidence a satisfactory method of contraception f . patients who are pregnant Acetohydroxamic acid may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
AHA was teratogenic ( retarded and / or clubbed rear leg at 750 mg / kg and above and exencephaly and encephalocele at 1 , 500 mg / kg ) when given intraperitoneally to rats .
AHA is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be informed of the potential hazard to the fetus .
WARNINGS A Coombs negative hemolytic anemia has occurred in patients receiving AHA .
Gastrointestinal upset characterized by nausea , vomiting , anorexia and generalized malaise have accompanied the most severe forms of hemolytic anemia .
Approximately 15 % of patients receiving AHA have had only laboratory findings of an anemia .
However , most patients developed a mild reticulocytosis .
The untoward reactions have reverted to normal following cessation of treatment .
A complete blood count , including a reticulocyte count , is recommended after two weeks of treatment .
If the reticulocyte count exceeds 6 % , a reduced dosage should be entertained .
A CBC and reticulocyte count are recommended at 3 - month intervals for the duration of treatment .
PRECAUTIONS General Hematologic Effects : Bone marrow depression ( leukopenia , anemia , and thrombocytopenia ) has occurred in experimental animals receiving large doses of AHA , but has not been seen in man to date .
AHA is a known inhibitor of DNA synthesis and also chelates metals - notably iron .
Its bone marrow suppressant effect is probably related to its ability to inhibit DNA synthesis , but anemia could also be related to depletion of iron stores .
To date , the only clinical effect noted has been hemolysis , with a decrease in the circulating red blood cells , hemoglobin and hematocrit .
Abnormalities in platelet or white blood cell count have not been noted .
However , clinical monitoring of the platelet and white cell count is recommended .
Monitoring Liver Function : Abnormalities of liver function have not been reported to date .
However , a chloro - benzene derivative of acetohydroxamic acid caused significant liver dysfunction in an unrelated study .
Therefore , close monitoring of liver function is recommended .
( See Carcinogenesis for discussion of possible hepatic carcinogenesis . )
Use In Patients With Renal Impairment : Since AHA is eliminated primarily by the kidneys , patients with significantly impaired renal function should be closely monitored , and a reduction of daily dose may be needed to avoid excessive drug accumulation .
( See Dosage and Administration . )
DRUG INTERACTIONS AHA has been used concomitantly with insulin , oral and parenteral antibiotics , and progestational agents .
No clinically significant interactions have been noted , but until wider clinical experience is obtained , AHA should be used with caution in patients receiving other therapeutic agents .
AHA taken in association with alcoholic beverages has resulted in a rash .
( See Adverse Reactions . )
AHA chelates heavy metals - notably iron .
The absorption of iron and AHA from the intestinal lumen may be reduced when both drugs are taken concomitantly .
When iron administration is indicated , intramuscular iron is probably the product of choice .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Well controlled , long - term animal studies that identify the carcinogenic potential of AHA treatment have not been conducted .
Acetamide , a metabolite of AHA , has been shown to cause hepatocellular carcinoma in rats at oral doses 1 , 500 times the human dose .
AHA is cytotoxic and was positive for mutagenicity in the Ames test .
( See Contraindications . )
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether AHA is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from AHA , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or the drug , taking into account the significance of the drug to the mother ’ s well being .
PEDIATRIC USE Children with chronic , recalcitrant , urea - splitting urinary infection may benefit from treatment with AHA .
However , detailed studies involving dosage and dose intervals in children have not been established .
Children have tolerated a dose of 10 mg / kg / day , taken in two or three divided doses , satisfactorily for periods up to one year .
Close monitoring of such patients is mandatory .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Experience with AHA is limited .
About 150 patients have been treated , most for periods of more than a year .
Adverse reactions have occurred in up to thirty percent ( 30 % ) of the patients receiving AHA .
In some instances the reactions were symptomatic ; in others only changes in laboratory parameters were noted .
Adverse reactions seem to be more prevalent in patients with preexisting thrombophlebitis or phlebothrombosis and / or in patients with advanced degrees of renal insufficiency .
The risk of adverse reactions is highest during the first year of treatment .
Chronic treatment does not seem to increase the risk nor the severity of adverse reactions .
The following reactions have been reported : NEUROLOGICAL : Mild headaches are commonly reported ( about 30 % ) during the first 48 hours of treatment .
These headaches are mild , responsive to oral salicylate - type analgesics , and usually disappear spontaneously .
The headaches have not been associated with vertigo , tinnitus , or visual or auditory abnormalities .
Tremulousness and nervousness have also been reported .
GASTROINTESTINAL : Gastrointestinal symptoms , nausea , vomiting , anorexia , and malaise have occurred in 20 - 25 % of patients .
In most patients the symptoms were mild , transitory , and did not result in interruption of treatment .
Approximately 3 % of patients developed a hemolytic anemia of sufficient magnitude to warrant interruption in treatment ; several of these patients also had symptoms of gastrointestinal upset .
HEMATOLOGICAL : Approximately 15 % of patients have had laboratory findings characteristic of a hemolytic anemia .
A mild reticulocytosis ( 5 - 6 % ) without anemia , is even more prevalent .
The laboratory findings are occasionally accompanied by systemic symptoms such as malaise , lethargy and fatigue , and gastrointestinal symptoms .
Symptoms and laboratory findings have invariably improved following cessation of treatment with AHA .
The hematological abnormalities are more prevalent in patients with advanced renal failure .
DERMATOLOGICAL : A nonpruritic , macular skin rash has occurred in the upper extremities and on the face of several patients taking AHA on a long - term basis , usually when AHA has been taken concomitantly with alcoholic beverages , but in a few patients in the absence of alcohol consumption .
The rash commonly appears 30 - 45 minutes after ingestion of alcoholic beverages ; it characteristically disappears spontaneously in 30 - 60 minutes .
The rash may be associated with a general sensation of warmth .
In some patients the rash is sufficiently severe to warrant discontinuation of treatment , but most patients have continued treatment , avoiding alcohol or using smaller quantities of it .
Alopecia has also been reported in patients taking AHA .
CARDIOVASCULAR : Superficial phlebitis involving the lower extremities has occurred in several patients on AHA during the early ( Phase II ) clinical trials .
Several of the affected patients had had phlebitic episodes prior to treatment .
One patient developed deep vein thrombosis of the lower extremities .
The patient with phlebothrombosis had an associated traumatic injury to the groin .
It is unclear whether the phlebitis was related to or exacerbated by treatment with AHA .
No patient in the three ( 3 ) year controlled ( Phase III ) clinical trial developed phlebitis .
In all instances these vascular abnormalities returned to normal following appropriate medical therapy .
Embolic phenomena have been reported in three patients taking AHA in the Phase II trial .
The phlebitis and emboli resolved following discontinuation of AHA and implementation of appropriate medical therapy .
Several patients have resumed treatment with AHA without ill effect .
Palpitations have also been reported in patients taking AHA .
RESPIRATORY : No symptoms have been reported .
Radiographic evidence of small pulmonary emboli has been seen in three patients with phlebitis in their lower legs .
PSYCHIATRIC : Depression , anxiety , nervousness , and tremulousness have been observed in approximately 20 % of patients taking AHA .
In most patients the symptoms were mild and transitory , but in about 6 % of patients the symptoms were sufficiently distressing to warrant interruption or discontinuation of treatment .
OVERDOSAGE Acute deliberate overdosage in man has not occurred , but would be expected to induce the following symptoms : anorexia , malaise , lethargy , diminished sense of well being , tremulousness , anxiety , nausea and vomiting .
Laboratory findings are likely to include an elevated reticulocyte count and a severe hemolytic reaction requiring hospitalization , symptomatic treatment , and possibly blood transfusions .
Concomitant reduction in platelets and / or white blood cells should be anticipated .
Milder overdosages resulting in hemolysis have occurred in an occasional patient with reduced renal function after several weeks or months of continuous treatment .
The acute LD 50 of AHA in animals ( rats ) is 4 . 8 gm / kg .
Recommended treatment for an overdosage reaction consists of ( 1 ) cessation of treatment , ( 2 ) close monitoring of hematologic status , ( 3 ) symptomatic treatment , and ( 4 ) blood transfusions as required by the clinical circumstances .
The drug is probably dialyzable , but this property has not been tested clinically .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AHA should be administered orally , one tablet 3 - 4 times a day in a total daily dose of 10 - 15 mg / kg / day .
The recommended starting dose is 12 mg / kg / day , administered at 6 - 8 hour intervals at a time when the stomach is empty .
The maximum daily dose should be no more than 1 . 5 grams , regardless of body weight .
The dosage should be reduced in patients with reduced renal function .
Patients whose serum creatinine is greater than 1 . 8 mg / dl should take no more than 1 . 0 gm / day ; such patients should be dosed at q - 12 - h intervals .
Further reductions in dosage to prevent the accumulation of toxic concentrations in the blood may also be desirable .
Insufficient data exists to accurately characterize the optimum dose and / or dose interval in patients with moderate degrees of renal insufficiency .
Patients with advanced renal insufficiency ( i . e . , serum creatinine more than 2 . 5 mg / dl ) should not be treated with AHA .
The risk of accumulation of toxic blood levels of AHA seems to be greater than the chances for a beneficial effect in such patients .
In children an initial dose of 10 mg / kg / day is recommended .
Close monitoring of the patient ’ s clinical condition and hematologic status is recommended .
Titration of the dose to higher or lower levels may be required to obtain an optimum therapeutic effect and / or to reduce the risk of side effects .
HOW SUPPLIED LITHOSTAT ® , NDC 0178 - 0500 - 01 , is available for oral administration as 250 mg white , round tablets , in unit of use packages of 100 tablets .
Each LITHOSTAT ® tablet is debossed MPC 500 on one side and blank on the other side .
LITHOSTAT ® should be stored in a dry place at room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Container should be closed tightly .
L050001R0620 PATIENT INFORMATION PLEASE READ THIS INFORMATION BEFORE USING THIS DRUG .
GENERAL INFORMATION : It has been known for many years that urinary infection may cause the formation of urinary stones .
As these stones form , bacteria are trapped within the stones .
The trapped bacteria cause the stones to grow , and the stones protect the bacteria from antibiotics .
Surgical removal of the stone attempts to break this vicious cycle - many times successfully .
However , if infection persists or if a small stone fragment persists , then there is an increased risk of stone recurrence .
Multiple operations to remove kidney stones may result in damage and scarring of the kidney .
In some situations removal of the kidney may be necessary .
In some instances stones may form initially as a result of non - infectious ( i . e . , metabolic ) causes .
If a metabolic stone becomes infected , then an “ infection stone ” may grow onto the “ metabolic stone . ”
Stone analysis and / or biochemical tests will usually determine which factors are present .
Experimental investigations have identified an enzyme called urease which is made by some ( but not all ) bacteria .
Urease reacts with urine to make ammonia .
Ammonia changes the acidity of the urine and the change in acidity encourages stone formation .
LITHOSTAT ® ( acetohydroxamic acid ) inhibits urease and thereby reduces urinary ammonia .
In some instances , LITHOSTAT ® enhances the effectiveness of antibiotics and thereby makes urinary infection easier to control .
WHAT IS LITHOSTAT ® ?
LITHOSTAT ® is a drug which prevents the excessive buildup of ammonia in your urine , which controls the acidity and alkalinity ( pH ) of your urine .
The cause of excessive ammonia and alkalinity in your urine is a bacterial infection .
WHAT CAN LITHOSTAT ® DO ?
Treatment with LITHOSTAT ® is prescribed to decrease urinary ammonia .
This may increase the chance of controlling your infection with antibiotics and may help the treatment of your kidney stones .
Dissolution of existing stones is unlikely .
LITHOSTAT ® should not be used in place of surgical treatment .
Surgical removal of all stones and elimination of all infection with antibiotics offers the possibility of curative treatment .
LITHOSTAT ® is likely to be more effective after large stones or obstructing stones have been removed .
WHAT ARE THE PROBLEMS OR SIDE EFFECTS WITH LITHOSTAT ® ?
The complete spectrum of side effects induced by LITHOSTAT ® ( acetohydroxamic acid ) is unknown .
However , some side effects which have been reported to date have been headaches , abdominal discomfort , nausea , loss of hair , shakiness , and anemia .
Lifethreatening problems ( blood clot in the legs ) occurred in several patients with advanced disease in early investigation .
In more extensive later investigations , this problem has not occurred .
No patient has died as a consequence of taking LITHOSTAT ® .
The most serious side effects seem to occur in patients with poor kidney function and / or in patients with a previous history of these conditions .
Problems related to LITHOSTAT ® have disappeared following cessation of the drug and initiation of appropriate medical treatment .
Most patients have resumed treatment without ill effect .
A flushing skin reaction ( i . e . , redness , warmth , and tingling ) has occurred in several patients who consumed alcohol during treatment with LITHOSTAT ® .
The reaction persisted approximately 30 minutes and disappeared without treatment .
The cause and significance of this reaction are unknown .
Consequently , patients are encouraged to abstain from consumption of alcoholic beverages while being treated with LITHOSTAT ® .
In animal studies doses of LITHOSTAT ® about 20 times the maximum human dose have caused fetal abnormalities ( birth defects ) indicating a potential for such an adverse effect in an exposed human fetus .
Therefore , LITHOSTAT ® should not be given to pregnant women or to any sexually active woman of child - baring age , not using a highly effective method of contraception ( oral contraceptive or IUD ) .
An acceptable long - term study of the cancer causing potential of LITHOSTAT ® has not been conducted , but a known metabolite of LITHOSTAT ® , acetamide , is carcinogenic ( cancer - causing ) to the liver in rats at doses about 80 times the maximum human dose of LITHOSTAT ® .
LITHOSTAT ® thus must be considered a potential human carcinogen .
LITHOSTAT ® kills tissue cells grown in tissue culture and alters genetic material in cells grown in culture .
LITHOSTAT ® may induce other adverse reactions which have not yet been recognized .
Unusual symptoms should be reported to your physician .
Mild symptoms usually do not warrant discontinuation of treatment .
Severe symptoms may necessitate temporary cessation of treatment and / or alteration of dosage .
WHAT ABOUT TAKING OTHER DRUGS WITH LITHOSTAT ® ?
Only take those drugs prescribed by your physician .
Do not take prescription drugs or over the counter preparations without your physician ‘ s specific prescription or recommendation .
Drugs that contain iron should not be taken at the same time as LITHOSTAT ® , ( acetohydroxamic acid ) .
LITHOSTAT ® reacts with iron , and may not be absorbed into the bloodstream .
Both the iron you take and the LITHOSTAT ® you take may be ineffective if both drugs are taken together .
HOW IMPORTANT IS MY DAILY DOSAGE OF LITHOSTAT ® ?
If you fail to follow your daily dosage schedule with LITHOSTAT ® you will probably suffer a setback in treatment effectiveness and new kidney stone formation is likely .
LITHOSTAT ® plus antibiotic therapy must be taken exactly as your physician prescribes it for optimum effectiveness .
IN CONCLUSION : Your daily dosage of LITHOSTAT ® ( acetohydroxamic acid ) is important to the proper treatment of your condition .
Any unusual side effects should be reported to your physician at once .
C08 Rev 010060 MISSION PHARMACAL COMPANY , San Antonio , TX 78230 1355 Lithostat 250 mg Label NDC : 0178 - 0500 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
