DESCRIPTION Isosorbide mononitrate is 1 , 4 : 3 , 6 - dianhydro - D - glucitol , 5 - nitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and whose molecular weight is 191 . 14 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
Each Ismo ® tablet contains 20 mg of isosorbide mononitrate .
The inactive ingredients in each tablet are colloidal silicon dioxide , D & C Yellow 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow 6 Aluminum Lake , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 20 , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide and hydroxypropyl cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Isosorbide mononitrate is the major active metabolite of isosorbide dinitrate ( ISDN ) , and most of the clinical activity of the dinitrate is attributable to the mononitrate .
The principal pharmacological action of isosorbide mononitrate , due to its nitric oxide metabolite , is direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
The result is dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Pharmacodynamics Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continu - ously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the antianginal efficacy of continuously delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their antianginal efficacy been restored .
The drug - free interval sufficient to avoid tolerance to isosorbide mononitrate has not been completely defined .
In the only regimen of twice - daily isosorbide mononitrate that has been shown to avoid development of tolerance , the two doses of Ismo tablets are given 7 hours apart , so there is a gap of 17 hours between the second dose of each day and the first dose of the next day .
Taking account of the relatively long half - life of isosorbide mononitrate this result is consistent with those obtained for other organic nitrates .
The same twice - daily regimen of Ismo tablets successfully avoided significant rebound / withdrawal effects .
The incidence and magnitude of such phenomena have appeared , in studies of other nitrates , to be highly dependent upon the schedule of nitrate administration .
Pharmacokinetics In humans , isosorbide mononitrate is not subject to first pass metabolism in the liver .
The absolute bioavailability of isosorbide mononitrate from Ismo tablets is nearly 100 % .
Maximum serum concentrations of isosorbide mononitrate are achieved 30 to 60 minutes after ingestion of Ismo .
The volume of distribution of isosorbide mononitrate is approximately 0 . 6 L / kg , and less than 4 % is bound to plasma proteins .
It is cleared from the serum by denitration to isosorbide ; glucuronidation to the mononitrate glucuronide ; and denitration / hydration to sorbitol .
None of these metabolites is vasoactive .
Less than 1 % of administered isosorbide mononitrate is eliminated in the urine .
The overall elimination half - life of isosorbide mononitrate is about 5 hours ; the rate of clearance is the same in healthy young adults , in patients with various degrees of renal , hepatic , or cardiac dysfunction , and in the elderly .
In a single - dose study , the pharmacokinetics of isosorbide mononitrate were dose - proportional up to at least 60 mg .
Clinical Trials Controlled trials of single doses of Ismo tablets have demonstrated that antianginal activity is present about 1 hour after dosing , with peak effect seen from 1 to 4 hours after dosing .
In placebo - controlled trials lasting 2 to 3 weeks , Ismo tablets were administered twice daily , in asymmetric regimens ( with interdosing intervals of 7 and 17 hours ) designed to avoid tolerance .
One trial tested doses of 10 mg and 20 mg ; one trial tested doses of 20 mg , 40 mg , and 60 mg ; and three trials tested only doses of 20 mg .
In each trial , the subjects were persons with known chronic stable angina , and the primary measure of efficacy was exercise tolerance on a standardized treadmill test .
After initial dosing and for at least 3 weeks , exercise tolerance in patients treated with Ismo 20 mg tablets was significantly greater than that seen in patients treated with placebo , although there was some attenuation of effect with time .
Treatment with Ismo tablets was superior to placebo for at least 12 hours after the first dose ( i . e . , 5 hours after the second dose ) of each day .
Significant tolerance and rebound phenomena were not observed .
The 10 - mg dose was not unequivocally superior to placebo , while the effect of the 40 - mg dose was similar to that of the 20 - mg dose .
The 60 - mg dose appeared to be less effective , and it was associated with a rebound phenomenon ( early - morning worsening ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ismo tablets are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of oral isosorbide mononitrate is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are extremely rare , but they do occur .
Isosorbide mononitrate is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of Ismo by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The benefits of isosorbide mononitrate in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
Because the effects of isosorbide mononitrate are difficult to terminate rapidly , this drug is not recommended in these settings .
If isosorbide mononitrate is used in these conditions , careful clinical or hemo - dynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of isosorbide mononitrate .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by isosorbide mononitrate may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of oral isosorbide mononitrate is not known .
Information for Patients Patients should be told that the antianginal efficacy of Ismo tablets can be maintained by carefully following the prescribed schedule of dosing ( two doses taken 7 hours apart ) .
For most patients , this can be accomplished by taking the first dose on awakening and the second dose 7 hours later .
As with other nitrates , daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with isosorbide mononitrate .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches are a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with isosorbide mononitrate , since loss of headache may be associated with simultaneous loss of antianginal efficacy .
Aspirin and / or acetaminophen , on the other hand , often successfully relieve isosorbide mononitrate - induced headaches with no deleterious effect on isosorbide mononitrate ’ s antianginal efficacy .
Treatment with isosorbide mononitrate may be associated with lightheadedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of isosorbide mononitrate may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No carcinogenic effects were observed in mice exposed to oral isosorbide mononitrate for 104 weeks at doses of up to 900 mg / kg / day ( 102 X the human exposure comparing body surface area ) .
Rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day for 26 weeks ( 225 X the human exposure comparing body surface area ) and 500 mg / kg / day for the remaining 95 to 111 weeks ( males and females , respectively ) showed no evidence of tumors .
No mutagenic activity was seen in a variety of in vitro and in vivo assays .
No adverse effects on fertility were observed when isosorbide mononitrate was administered to male and female rats at doses of up to 500 mg / kg / day ( 125 X the human exposure comparing body surface area ) .
Pregnancy Category C Isosorbide mononitrate has been shown to be associated with stillbirths and neonatal death in rats receiving 500 mg / kg / day of isosorbide mononitrate ( 125 X the human exposure comparing body surface area ) .
At 250 mg / kg / day , no adverse effects on reproduction and development were reported .
In rats and rabbits receiving isosorbide mononitrate at up to 250 mg / kg / day , no developmental abnormalities , fetal abnormalities , or other effects upon reproductive performance were detected ; these doses are larger than the maximum recommended human dose by factors between 70 ( body - surface - area basis in rabbits ) and 310 ( body - weight basis , either species ) .
In rats receiving 500 mg / kg / day , there were small but statistically significant increases in the rates of prolonged gestation , prolonged parturition , stillbirth , and neonatal death ; and there were small but statistically significant decreases in birth weight , live litter size , and pup survival .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Isosorbide mononitrate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether isosorbide mononitrate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when isosorbide mononitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of isosorbide mononitrate in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Ismo ® did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , although age , renal , hepatic or cardiac dysfunction do not appear to have a clinically significant effect on the clearance of Ismo ® .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The table below shows the frequencies of the adverse reactions observed in more than 1 % of the subjects ( a ) in 6 placebo - controlled domestic studies in which patients in the active - treatment arm received 20 mg of isosorbide mononitrate twice daily , and ( b ) in all studies in which patients received isosorbide mononitrate in a variety of regimens .
In parentheses , the same table shows the frequencies with which these adverse reactions led to discontinuation of treatment .
Overall , 11 % of the patients who received isosorbide mononitrate in the six controlled U . S . studies discontinued treatment because of adverse reactions .
Most of these discontinued because of headache .
“ Dizziness ” and nausea were also frequently associated with withdrawal from these studies .
Frequency of Adverse Reactions ( Discontinuations ) [ 1 ] 6 Controlled Studies 92 Clinical Studies Dose Placebo 20 mg ( varied ) Patients 204 219 3344 Headache 9 % ( 0 % ) 38 % ( 9 % ) 19 % ( 4 . 3 % ) Dizziness 1 % ( 0 % ) 5 % ( 1 % ) 3 % ( 0 . 2 % ) Nausea , Vomiting < 1 % ( 0 % ) 4 % ( 3 % ) 2 % ( 0 . 2 % ) [ 1 ] Some individuals discontinued for multiple reasons .
Other adverse reactions , each reported by fewer than 1 % of exposed patients , and in many cases of uncertain relation to drug treatment , were :: Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , arrhythmias , atrial fibrillation , hypotension , palpitations , postural hypotension , premature ventricular contractions , supraventricular tachycardia , syncope .
Dermatologic : pruritus , rash .
Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , diarrhea , dyspepsia , tenesmus , tooth disorder , vomiting .
Genitourinary : dysuria , impotence , urinary frequency .
Miscellaneous : asthenia , blurred vision , cold sweat , diplopia , edema , malaise , neck stiffness , rigors .
Musculoskeletal : arthralgia .
Neurological : agitation , anxiey , confusion , dyscoordination , hypoesthesia , hypokinesia , increased appetite , insomnia , nervousness , nightmares .
Respiratory : bronchitis , pneumonia , upper - respiratory tract infection .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients ; for futher discussion of its diagnosis and treatment see under OVERDOSAGE .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects The ill effects of isosorbide mononitrate overdose are generally the results of isosorbide mononitrate ’ s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of isosorbide mononitrate and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of isosorbide mononitrate overdose .
There are no data suggesting what dose of isosorbide mononitrate is likely to be life - threatening in humans .
In rats and mice , there is significant lethality at doses of 2000 mg / kg and 3000 mg / kg , respectively .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of isosorbide mononitrate .
In particular , dialysis is known to be ineffective in removing isosorbide mononitrate from the body .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of isosorbide mononitrate is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of isosorbide mononitrate overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with isosorbide mononitrate overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward an increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ’ s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of isosorbide mononitrate overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia Methemoglobinemia has been reported in patients receiving other organic nitrates , and it probably could also occur as a side effect of isosorbide mononitrate .
Certainly nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of isosorbide mononitrate can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moiety of isosorbide mononitrate is quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 2 mg / kg of isosorbide mononitrate should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of isosorbide mononitrate .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr ( equivalent , in total administered dose of nitrate ions , to 7 . 8 to 11 . 1 mg of isosorbide mononitrate per hour ) , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) The recommended regimen of Ismo tablets is 20 mg ( one tablet ) twice daily , with the two doses given 7 hours apart .
For most patients , this can be accomplished by taking the first dose on awakening and the second dose 7 hours later .
Dosage adjustments are not necessary for elderly patients or patients with altered renal or hepatic function .
As noted above ( CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , multiple studies of organic nitrates have shown that maintenance of continuous 24 - hour plasma levels results in refractory tolerance .
The dosing regimen for Ismo tablets provides a daily nitrate - free interval to avoid the development of this tolerance .
As also noted under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , well - controlled studies have shown that tolerance to Ismo tablets is avoided when using the twice - daily regimen in which the two doses are given 7 hours apart .
This regimen has been shown to have antianginal efficacy beginning 1 hour after the first dose and lasting at least 5 hours after the second dose .
The duration ( if any ) of antianginal activity beyond 12 hours has not been studied ; large controlled studies with other nitrates suggest that no dosing regimen should be expected to provide more than about 12 hours of continuous antianginal efficacy per day .
In clinical trials , Ismo tablets have been administered in a variety of regimens .
Single doses less than 20 mg have not been adequately studied , while single doses greater than 20 mg have demonstrated no greater efficacy than doses of 20 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Ismo ® ( isosorbide mononitrate ) tablets , 20 mg , are available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 67857 - 702 - 01 ) .
Each orange , round , film - coated tablet is engraved “ ISMO 20 ” on one side and scored on the reverse side .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight container .
Manufactured by : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Manufactured for : Reddy Pharmaceuticals , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807
