DESCRIPTION Nystatin , USP is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
Its structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C47H75NO17 M . W . 926 . 13 Nystatin Tablets USP contain the inactive ingredients : Corn Starch , Povidone , Compressible Sugar , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Talc , Magnesium Stearate , Purified Water , and Coloring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Gastrointestinal absorption of nystatin is insignificant .
Most orally administered nystatin is passed unchanged in the stool .
In patients with renal insufficiency receiving oral therapy with conventional dosage forms , significant plasma concentrations of nystatin may occasionally occur .
Microbiology Nystatin is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast like fungi .
Candida albicans demonstrates no significant resistance to nystatin in vitro on repeated subculture in increasing levels of nystatin ; other Candida species become quite resistant .
Generally , resistance does not develop in vivo .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible Candida species with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin tablets are intended for the treatment of non - esophageal mucus membrane gastrointestinal candidiasis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components .
PRECAUTIONS General This medication is not to be used for the treatment of systemic mycoses .
Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nystatin .
It is also not known whether nystatin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy .
Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Gastrointestinal Diarrhea ( including one case of bloody diarrhea ) , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset / disturbances .
Dermatologic Rash , including urticaria has been reported rarely .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely .
Other Tachycardia , bronchospasm , facial swelling , and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
There have been no reports of serious toxic effects of superinfections ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual therapeutic dosage is one to two tablets ( 500 , 000 to 1 , 000 , 000 units nystatin ) three times daily .
Treatment should generally be continued for at least 48 hours after clinical cure to prevent relapse .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Tablets USP , 500 , 000 Units are round , convex , brown , film - coated tablet debossed with 93 on one side and 983 on the reverse and are packaged in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 0093 - 0983 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Keep tightly closed .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured By : TEVA CANADA LIMITED Toronto , Canada M1B 2K9 Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . N 2 / 2016 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 0983 - 01 Nystatin Tablets USP 500 , 000 units ( oral ) Rx only 100 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
