Drug Facts Active ingredient Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal decongestant Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • temporarily relive sinus congestion and pressure • shrinks swollen nasal membrances so you can breathe more freely Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing , or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostrill .
Not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor .
• Shake well before use .
To open , rotate cap to align the marks .
Squeeze cap on both sides in a counter - clockwise turn and pull off to remove .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting the head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use and snap cap back onto the bottle .
Other information • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • retain carton for future reference on full labeling Inactive Ingredients benzalkonium chloride , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium dihydrate , glycerin , monobasic sodium phosphate , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , povidone , purified water .
Tamper evident : do not use if safety seal is broken or missing MANUFACTURED FOR GIL PHARMACEUTICAL CORP .
PONCE , PUERTO RICO 00717 - 1565 giltuss . com FAST AND POWERFUL Giltuss ® SEVERE SINUS UP TO 12 HOURS RELIEF EXTRA MOISTURIZING FAST RELIEF OF : • SINUS CONGESTION AND PRESSURE • STUFFY NOSE PUMP MIST 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
