Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 10 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr , 20 mg Guaifenesin , 200 mg Purposes Cough Suppresant Expectorant Uses • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive and drain bronchial tubes Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts for more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • use enclosed dosinc cup • keep dosage cup for use with this product • ml = milliliters adults and children 12 years and over 10 mL every 4 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 4 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years of age Consult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • close cap tightly • SAVE CARTON FOR COMPLETE DRUG FACTS Inactive ingredients carboxymethycellulose sodium , citric acid , glycerin , natural and artificial flavor , natural grade A honey , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 787 - 848 - 9114 , Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST .
Call your doctor for medical advice in the event of side effects .
Tamper Evident : do not use if safety seal is broken or missing .
MANUFACTURED FOR GIL PHARMACEUTICAL CORP .
PONCE , PUERTO RICO 00717 - 1565 giltuss . com MAXIMUM STRENGTH Giltuss ® Honey Cough & Chest Congestion Made with real honey ALCOHOL FREE .
DYE FREE .
NON - DROWSY RELIEVES COUGH AND COLD CHEST CONGESTION LIQUIFIES AND LOOSENS PHLEGM AND MUCUS HONEY LEMON FLAVOR 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
