BOXED WARNING BOXED WARNING Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions ( including bronchospasm , laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse ) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it .
Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures .
Psychiatric Effects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior , including mental confusion and visual hallucinations , have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate in combination with other prescribed drugs .
Accidental Ingestion and Death in Children Keep benzonatate out of reach of children .
Accidental ingestion of benzonatate resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10 .
Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 to 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion .
If accidental ingestion occurs , seek medical attention immediately ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
DESCRIPTION Benzonatate , a non - narcotic antitussive agent , is 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 23 , 26 - nonaoxaoctacosan - 28 - yl p - ( butylamino ) benzoate ; with a molecular weight of 603 . 7 .
Benzonatate Capsules , USP contain 100 mg or 200 mg of benzonatate , USP .
Benzonatate Capsules also contain : D & C Yellow No . 10 , gelatin , glycerin , methylparaben sodium and propylparaben sodium .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzonatate acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Benzonatate is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds .
PRECAUTIONS Benzonatate is chemically related to anesthetic agents of the para - amino - benzoic acid class ( e . g . , procaine ; tetracaine ) and has been associated with adverse CNS effects possibly related to a prior sensitivity to related agents or interaction with concomitant medication .
Information for Patients : Swallow benzonatate capsules whole .
Do not break , chew , dissolve , cut , or crush benzonatate capsules .
Release of benzonatate from the capsule in the mouth can produce a temporary local anesthesia of the oral mucosa and choking could occur .
If numbness or tingling of the tongue , mouth , throat , or face occurs , refrain from oral ingestion of food or liquids until the numbness has resolved .
If the symptoms worsen or persist , seek medical attention .
Keep benzonatate out of reach of children .
Accidental ingestion resulting in death has been reported in children .
Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 to 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion .
Signs and symptoms may include restlessness , tremors , convulsions , coma and cardiac arrest .
If accidental ingestion occurs , seek medical attention immediately .
Overdosage resulting in death may occur in adults .
Do not exceed a single dose of 200 mg and a total daily dose of 600 mg .
If you miss a dose of benzonatate , skip that dose and take the next dose at the next scheduled time .
Do not take 2 doses of benzonatate at one time .
Usage in Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
It is also not known whether benzonatate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzonatate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when benzonatate is administered to a nursing woman .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 has not been established .
Accidental ingestion resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10 .
Keep out of reach of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Potential Adverse Reactions to benzonatate may include : Hypersensitivity reactions including bronchospasm , laryngospasm , cardiovascular collapse possibly related to local anesthesia from chewing or sucking the capsule .
CNS : sedation ; headache ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; visual hallucinations .
GI : constipation , nausea , GI upset .
Dermatologic : pruritus ; skin eruptions .
Other : nasal congestion ; sensation of burning in the eyes ; vague “ chilly ” sensation ; numbness of the chest ; hypersensitivity .
Deliberate or accidental overdose has resulted in death , particularly in children .
OVERDOSAGE Intentional and unintentional overdose may result in death , particularly in children .
The drug is chemically related to tetracaine and other topical anesthetics and shares various aspects of their pharmacology and toxicology .
Drugs of this type are generally well absorbed after ingestion .
Signs and Symptoms : The signs and symptoms of overdose of benzonatate have been reported within 15 to 20 minutes .
If capsules are chewed or dissolved in the mouth , oropharyngeal anesthesia will develop rapidly , which may cause choking and airway compromise .
CNS stimulation may cause restlessness and tremors , which may proceed to clonic convulsions followed by profound CNS depression .
Convulsions , coma , cerebral edema and cardiac arrest leading to death have been reported within 1 hour of ingestion .
Treatment : In case of overdose , seek medical attention immediately .
Evacuate gastric contents and administer copious amounts of activated charcoal slurry .
Even in the conscious patient , cough and gag refluxes may be so depressed as to necessitate special attention to protection against aspiration of gastric contents and orally administered materials .
Convulsions should be treated with a short - acting barbiturate given intravenously and carefully titrated for the smallest effective dosage .
Intensive support of respiration and cardiovascular - renal function is an essential feature of the treatment of severe intoxication from overdosage .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age : Usual dose is one 100 mg or 200 mg capsule three times a day as needed for cough .
If necessary to control cough , up to 600 mg daily in three divided doses may be given .
Benzonatate should be swallowed whole .
Benzonatate Capsules are not to be broken , chewed , dissolved , cut or crushed .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC : 51655 - 773 - 52 MFG : 65162 - 537 - 50 Benzonatate 200 MG 30 Capsules Rx Only Lot # Exp .
Date : Each soft gelatin capsule contains Benzonatate , USP ... 200 MG Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Keep tightly closed .
Protect from light .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . gov / drugs / drugsafety / ucm085729 Mfg . by Amneal Pharmaceuticals of NY , Hauppauge , NY 11788 Mfg for Amneal Pharmaceuticals , Glasgow , KY 42141 Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label . Principal Display NDC : 51655 - 773 - 20 MFG : 65162 - 537 - 50 Benzonatate 200 MG 20 Capsules Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each capsule contains : Benzonatate , USP ..... 200 MG Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Keept tightly closed .
Protect form light .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . gov / drugs / drugsafety / ucm085729 Mfg . by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals of NY Hauppauge , NY 11788 Dist .
by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Glasgow , KY 42141 Lot # Repackaged By : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
