RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) 11 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) 11 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Guanfacine extended - release is a central alpha 2 A - adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications ( 1 , 14 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose : 1 mg to 4 mg ( 0 . 05 mg / kg to 0 . 12 mg / kg target weight based dose range ) once daily in the morning or evening based on clinical response and tolerability ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Begin at a dose of 1 mg once daily and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg / week ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Do not crush , chew or break tablets before swallowing ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Do not administer with high - fat meals , because of increased exposure ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Do not substitute for immediate - release guanfacine tablets on a mg - per - mg basis , because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles ( 2 . 3 ) .
• If switching from immediate - release guanfacine , discontinue that treatment and titrate with guanfacine extended - release as directed ( 2 . 3 ) .
• When discontinuing , taper the dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension ( 2 . 5 ) .
2 . 1 General Instruction for Use Swallow tablets whole .
Do not crush , chew , or break tablets because this will increase the rate of guanfacine release .
Do not administer with high fat meals , due to increased exposure .
2 . 2 Dose Selection Take guanfacine extended - release tablets orally once daily , either in the morning or evening , at approximately the same time each day .
Begin at a dose of 1 mg / day , and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg / week .
In monotherapy - clinical trials , there was dose - and exposure - related clinical improvement as well as risks for several clinically significant adverse reactions ( hypotension , bradycardia , sedative events ) .
To balance the exposure - related potential benefits and risks , the recommended target dose range depending on clinical response and tolerability for guanfacine extended - release is 0 . 05 to 0 . 12 mg / kg / day ( total daily dose between 1 mg to 4 mg ) .
In the adjunctive trial which evaluated guanfacine extended - release treatment with psychostimulants , the majority of patients reached optimal doses in the 0 . 05 to 0 . 12 mg / kg / day range .
Doses above 4 mg / day have not been studied in adjunctive trials .
Additional pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Shire US Inc . ’ s INTUNIV ® ( guanfacine ) extended - release tablet product .
However , due to Shire US Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 3 Switching from Immediate - Release Guanfacine to Guanfacine Extended - Release If switching from immediate - release guanfacine , discontinue that treatment , and titrate with guanfacine extended - release following above recommended schedule .
Do not substitute for immediate - release guanfacine tablets on a milligram - per - milligram basis , because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles .
Guanfacine extended - release has significantly reduced C max ( 60 % lower ) , bioavailability ( 43 % lower ) , and a delayed T max ( 3 hours later ) compared to those of the same dose of immediate - release guanfacine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Maintenance Treatment Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Healthcare providers should periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of guanfacine extended - release , and adjust weight - based dosage as needed .
The majority of children and adolescents reach optimal doses in the 0 . 05 to 0 . 12 mg / kg / day range .
Additional pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Shire US Inc . ’ s INTUNIV ® ( guanfacine ) extended - release tablet product .
However , due to Shire US Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 5 Discontinuation of Treatment Following discontinuation of guanfacine extended - release , patients may experience increases in blood pressure and heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed not to discontinue guanfacine extended - release without consulting their health care provider .
Monitor blood pressure and pulse when reducing the dose or discontinuing the drug .
Taper the daily dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension .
2 . 6 Missed Doses When reinitiating patients to the previous maintenance dose after two or more missed consecutive doses , consider titration based on patient tolerability .
2 . 7 Dosage Adjustment with Concomitant Use of Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Dosage adjustments for guanfacine extended - release are recommended with concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) , or CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , carbamazepine ) ( Table 2 ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Table 2 : Guanfacine Extended - Release Dosage Adjustments for Patients Taking Concomitant CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Clinical Scenarios Starting guanfacine extended - release while currently on a CYP3A4 modulator Continuing guanfacine extended - release while adding a CYP3A4 modulator Continuing guanfacine extended - release while stopping a CYP3A4 modulator CYP3A4 Strong andModerate Inhibitors Decrease guanfacine extended - release dosage to half the recommended level .
Decrease guanfacine extended - release dosage to half the recommended level .
Increase guanfacine extended - release dosage to recommended level .
CYP3A4 Strong andModerate Inducers Consider increasing guanfacine extended - release dosage up to double the recommended level .
Consider increasing guanfacine extended - release dosage up to double the recommended level over 1 to 2 weeks .
Decrease guanfacine extended - release dosage to recommended level over 1 to 2 weeks .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg extended - release tablets Extended - release tablets : 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Guanfacine extended - release is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to guanfacine extended - release or its inactive ingredients , or other products containing guanfacine .
Rash and pruritus have been reported .
History of hypersensitivity to guanfacine extended - release , its inactive ingredients , or other products containing guanfacine ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypotension , bradycardia , syncope : Titrate slowly and monitor vital signs frequently in patients at risk for hypotension , heart block , bradycardia , syncope , cardiovascular disease , vascular disease , cerebrovascular disease or chronic renal failure .
Measure heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy , following dose increases , and periodically while on therapy .
Avoid concomitant use of drugs with additive effects unless clinically indicated .
Advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Sedation and somnolence : Occur commonly with guanfacine extended - release .
Consider the potential for additive sedative effects with CNS depressant drugs .
Caution patients against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to guanfacine extended - release ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities : May worsen sinus node dysfunction and atrioventricular ( AV ) block , especially in patients taking other sympatholytic drugs .
Titrate slowly and monitor vital signs frequently ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Rebound Hypertension : Abrupt discontinuation of guanfacine extended - release tablets can lead to clinically significant and persistent rebound hypertension .
Subsequent hypertensive encephalopathy was also reported .
To minimize the risk of rebound hypertension upon discontinuation , the total daily dose of guanfacine extended - release tablets should be tapered in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days ( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 Hypotension , Bradycardia , and Syncope Treatment with guanfacine extended - release can cause dose - dependent decreases in blood pressure and heart rate .
Decreases were less pronounced over time of treatment .
Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Measure heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy , following dose increases , and periodically while on therapy .
Titrate guanfacine extended - release slowly in patients with a history of hypotension , and those with underlying conditions that may be worsened by hypotension and bradycardia ; e . g . , heart block , bradycardia , cardiovascular disease , vascular disease , cerebrovascular disease , or chronic renal failure .
In patients who have a history of syncope or may have a condition that predisposes them to syncope , such as hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , bradycardia , or dehydration , advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated .
Monitor blood pressure and heart rate , and adjust dosages accordingly in patients treated concomitantly with antihypertensives or other drugs that can reduce blood pressure or heart rate or increase the risk of syncope .
5 . 2 Sedation and Somnolence Somnolence and sedation were commonly reported adverse reactions in clinical studies [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Before using guanfacine extended - release with other centrally active depressants , consider the potential for additive sedative effects .
Caution patients against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to treatment with guanfacine extended - release .
Advise patients to avoid use with alcohol .
5 . 3 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities The sympatholytic action of guanfacine extended - release may worsen sinus node dysfunction and atrioventricular ( AV ) block , especially in patients taking other sympatholytic drugs .
Titrate guanfacine extended - release slowly and monitor vital signs frequently in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities or patients concomitantly treated with other sympatholytic drugs .
5 . 4 Rebound Hypertension In post marketing experience , abrupt discontinuation of guanfacine extended - release tablets has resulted in clinically significant and persistent rebound hypertension above baseline levels and increases in heart rate .
Hypertensive encephalopathy has also been reported in association with rebound hypertension with both guanfacine extended - release tablets and immediate release guanfacine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
In these cases , high - dosage guanfacine was discontinued ; concomitant stimulant use was also reported , which may potentially increase hypertensive response upon abrupt discontinuation of guanfacine .
Children commonly have gastrointestinal illnesses that lead to vomiting , and a resulting inability to take medications , so they may be especially at risk for rebound hypertension .
To minimize the risk of rebound hypertension upon discontinuation , the total daily dose of guanfacine extended - release tablets should be tapered in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Blood pressure and heart rate should be monitored when reducing the dose or discontinuing guanfacine extended - release tablets .
If abrupt discontinuation occurs ( especially with concomitant stimulant use ) , patients should be closely followed for rebound hypertension .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypotension , bradycardia , and syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Sedation and somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cardiac conduction abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Rebound Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 5 % and at least twice placebo rate ) in fixed - dose monotherapy ADHD trials in children and adolescents ( 6 to 17 years ) : hypotension , somnolence , fatigue , nausea , and lethargy ( 6 . 1 ) Flexible dose - optimization ADHD trials in children ( 6 to 12 years ) : somnolence , hypotension , abdominal pain , insomnia , fatigue , dizziness , dry mouth , irritability , nausea , vomiting , and bradycardia ( 6 . 1 ) .
Adjunctive treatment to psychostimulant ADHD trial in children and adolescents ( 6 to 17 years ) : somnolence , fatigue , insomnia , dizziness , and abdominal pain ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect clinical trial exposure to guanfacine extended - release in 2 , 028 patients .
This includes 1 , 533 patients from completed studies in children and adolescents , ages 6 to 17 years and 495 patients in completed studies in adult healthy volunteers .
The mean duration of exposure of 446 patients that previously participated in two 2 - year , open - label long - term studies was approximately 10 months .
Fixed Dose Trials Table 3 : Percentage of Patients Experiencing Most Common ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate for placebo ) Adverse Reactions in Fixed Dose Studies 1 and 2 Guanfacine Extended - Release ( mg ) Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 149 ) 1 mg * ( N = 61 ) 2 mg ( N = 150 ) 3 mg ( N = 151 ) 4 mg ( N = 151 ) All Doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 513 ) Somnolence a 11 % 28 % 30 % 38 % 51 % 38 % Fatigue 3 % 10 % 13 % 17 % 15 % 14 % Hypotension b 3 % 8 % 5 % 7 % 8 % 7 % Dizziness 4 % 5 % 3 % 7 % 10 % 6 % Lethargy 3 % 2 % 3 % 8 % 7 % 6 % Nausea 2 % 7 % 5 % 5 % 6 % 6 % Dry mouth 1 % 0 % 1 % 6 % 7 % 4 % * The lowest dose of 1 mg used in Study 2 was not randomized to patients weighing more than 50 kg .
aThe somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
bThe hypotension term includes hypotension , diastolic hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , blood pressure decreased , blood pressure diastolic decreased , blood pressure systolic decreased ) .
Table 4 : Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation ( ≥ 2 % for all doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release and > rate in placebo ) in Fixed Dose Studies 1 and 2 Guanfacine Extended - Release ( mg ) Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 149 ) 1 mg * ( N = 61 ) 2 mg ( N = 150 ) 3 mg ( N = 151 ) 4 mg ( N = 151 ) All Doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 513 ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) Total patients 4 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) 10 ( 7 % ) 15 ( 10 % ) 27 ( 18 % ) 54 ( 11 % ) Somnolence a 1 ( 1 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) 6 ( 4 % ) 17 ( 11 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Fatigue 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 4 ( 3 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in ≥ 2 % in any dose group but did not meet this criteria in all doses combined : hypotension ( hypotension , diastolic hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , blood pressure decreased , blood pressure diastolic decreased , blood pressure systolic decreased ) , headache , and dizziness .
* The lowest dose of 1 mg used in Study 2 was not randomized to patients weighing more than 50 kg .
aThe somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
Table 5 : Other Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % for all doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release and > rate than in placebo ) in Fixed Dose Studies 1 and 2 Guanfacine Extended - Release ( mg ) Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 149 ) 1 mg * ( N = 61 ) 2 mg ( N = 150 ) 3 mg ( N = 151 ) 4 mg ( N = 151 ) All Doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 513 ) Headache 19 % 26 % 25 % 16 % 28 % 23 % Abdominal Pain a 9 % 10 % 7 % 11 % 15 % 11 % Decreased Appetite 4 % 5 % 4 % 9 % 6 % 6 % Irritability 4 % 5 % 8 % 3 % 7 % 6 % Constipation 1 % 2 % 2 % 3 % 4 % 3 % Nightmare b 0 % 0 % 0 % 3 % 4 % 2 % Enuresis c 1 % 0 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 2 % Affect Lability d 1 % 2 % 1 % 3 % 1 % 2 % Adverse reactions ≥ 2 % for all doses of guanfacine extended - release and > rate in placebo in any dose group but did not meet this criteria in all doses combined : insomnia ( insomnia , initial insomnia , middle insomnia , terminal insomnia , sleep disorder ) , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal / stomach discomfort ( abdominal discomfort , epigastric discomfort , stomach discomfort ) , rash ( rash , rash generalized , rash papular ) , dyspepsia , increased weight , bradycardia ( bradycardia , sinus bradycardia ) , asthma ( asthma , bronchospasm , wheezing ) , agitation , anxiety ( anxiety , nervousness ) , sinus arrhythmia , blood pressure increased ( blood pressure increased , blood pressure diastolic increased ) , and first degree atrioventricular block .
* The lowest dose of 1 mg used in Study 2 was not randomized to patients weighing more than 50 kg .
aThe abdominal pain term includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , abdominal pain upper , and abdominal tenderness .
bThe nightmare term includes abnormal dreams , nightmare , and sleep terror .
cThe enuresis term includes enuresis , nocturia , and urinary incontinence .
dThe affect lability term includes affect lability and mood swings .
Monotherapy Flexible Dose Trials Table 6 : Percentage of Patients Experiencing Most Common ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate for placebo ) Adverse Reactions in the Monotherapy Flexible Dose Study 4 Guanfacine Extended - Release Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 112 ) AM ( N = 107 ) PM ( N = 114 ) All Doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 221 ) Somnolence a 15 % 57 % 54 % 56 % Abdominal Pain b 7 % 8 % 19 % 14 % Fatigue 3 % 10 % 11 % 11 % Irritability 3 % 7 % 7 % 7 % Nausea 1 % 6 % 5 % 5 % Dizziness 3 % 6 % 4 % 5 % Vomiting 2 % 7 % 4 % 5 % Hypotension c 0 % 6 % 4 % 5 % Decreased Appetite 3 % 6 % 3 % 4 % Enuresis d 1 % 2 % 5 % 4 % aThe somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
bThe abdominal pain term includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , abdominal pain upper , and abdominal tenderness cThe hypotension term includes hypotension , diastolic hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , blood pressure decreased , blood pressure diastolic decreased , blood pressure systolic decreased ) .
dThe enuresis term includes enuresis , nocturia , and urinary incontinence .
Table 7 : Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation ( ≥ 2 % for all doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release and > rate than in placebo ) in Monotherapy Flexible Dose Study 4 Guanfacine Extended - Release Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 112 ) AM ( N = 107 ) PM ( N = 114 ) All Doses ofGuanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 221 ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) Total patients 0 ( 0 % ) 8 ( 7 % ) 7 ( 6 % ) 15 ( 7 % ) Somnolence a 0 ( 0 % ) 4 ( 4 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) 7 ( 3 % ) Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in greater than or equal to 2 % in any dose group bud did not meet this criteria in all doses combined : fatigue aThe somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
Table 8 : Other Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % for all doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release and > rate than in placebo ) in the Monotherapy Flexible Dose Study 4 Guanfacine Extended - Release Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 112 ) AM ( N = 107 ) PM ( N = 114 ) All Doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 221 ) Headache 11 % 18 % 16 % 17 % Insomnia a 6 % 8 % 6 % 7 % Diarrhea 4 % 4 % 6 % 5 % Lethargy 0 % 4 % 3 % 3 % Constipation 2 % 2 % 4 % 3 % Dry Mouth 1 % 3 % 3 % 3 % Adverse reactions ≥ 2 % for all doses of guanfacine extended - release and > rate in placebo in any dose group but did not meet this criteria in all doses combined : affect lability ( affect lability , mood swings ) , increased weight , syncope / loss of consciousness ( loss of consciousness , presyncope , syncope ) , dyspepsia , tachycardia ( tachycardia , sinus tachycardia ) , and bradycardia ( bradycardia , sinus bradycardia ) .
aThe insomnia term includes insomnia , initial insomnia , middle insomnia , terminal insomnia , and sleep disorder .
Adjunctive Trial Table 11 : Percentage of Patients Experiencing Most Common ( ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate for placebo ) Adverse Reactions in the Short - Term Adjunctive Study 3 Guanfacine Extended - Release + stimulant Adverse Reaction Term Placebo + stimulant ( N = 153 ) AM ( N = 150 ) PM ( N = 152 ) All Doses ( N = 302 ) Somnolence a 7 % 18 % 18 % 18 % Insomnia b 6 % 10 % 14 % 12 % Abdominal Pain c 3 % 8 % 12 % 10 % Fatigue 3 % 12 % 7 % 10 % Dizziness 4 % 10 % 5 % 8 % Decreased Appetite 4 % 7 % 8 % 7 % Nausea 3 % 3 % 7 % 5 % aThe somnolence term includes somnolence , sedation , and hypersomnia .
bThe insomnia term includes insomnia , initial insomnia , middle insomnia , terminal insomnia , and sleep disorder .
cThe abdominal pain term includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , abdominal pain upper , and abdominal tenderness .
There were no specific adverse reactions greater than or equal to 2 % in any treatment group that led to discontinuation in the short - term adjunctive study ( Study 3 ) .
Table 12 : Other Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % for all doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release and > rate than in placebo ) in the Short - Term Adjunctive Study 3 Guanfacine Extended - Release + stimulant Adverse Reaction Term Placebo ( N = 153 ) AM ( N = 150 ) PM ( N = 152 ) All Doses of Guanfacine Extended - Release ( N = 302 ) Headache 13 % 21 % 21 % 21 % Diarrhea 1 % 4 % 3 % 4 % Hypotension a 0 % 4 % 2 % 3 % Constipation 0 % 2 % 3 % 2 % Affect Lability b 1 % 3 % 2 % 2 % Dry Mouth 0 % 1 % 3 % 2 % Bradycardia c 0 % 1 % 3 % 2 % Postural Dizziness 0 % 1 % 3 % 2 % Rash d 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % Nightmare e 1 % 2 % 1 % 2 % Tachycardia f 1 % 2 % 1 % 2 % Adverse reactions greater than or equal to 2 % for all doses of guanfacine extended - release and greater than rate in placebo in any dose group but did not meet this criteria in all doses combined : irritability , vomiting , asthma ( asthma , bronchospasm , wheezing ) , and enuresis ( enuresis , nocturia , urinary incontinence ) .
aThe hypotension term includes hypotension , diastolic hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , blood pressure decreased , blood pressure diastolic decreased , blood pressure systolic decreased .
bThe affect lability term includes affect lability and mood swings .
cThe bradycardia term includes bradycardia and sinus bradycardia .
dThe rash term includes rash , rash generalized , and rash papular .
eThe nightmare term includes abnormal dreams , nightmare , and sleep terror .
fThe tachycardia term includes tachycardia and sinus tachycardia .
Effects on Blood Pressure and Heart Rate In the monotherapy pediatric , short - term , controlled trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) , the maximum mean changes from baseline in seated systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and pulse were - 5 . 4 mmHg , - 3 . 4 mmHg , and - 5 . 5 bpm , respectively , for all doses combined ( generally one week after reaching target doses ) .
For the respective fixed doses 1 mg / day , 2 mg / day , 3 mg / day or 4 mg / day the maximum mean changes in seated systolic blood pressure were - 4 . 3 mmHg , - 5 . 5 mmHg , - 5 . 4 mmHg and - 8 . 2 mmHg .
For these respective fixed doses the maximum mean changes in seated diastolic blood pressure were - 3 . 4 mmHg , - 3 . 3 mmHg , - 4 . 4 mmHg and - 5 . 4 mmHg .
For these respective fixed doses the maximum mean changes in seated pulse were - 4 . 8 bpm , - 3 . 1 bpm , - 6 . 5 bpm and - 8 . 6 bpm .
Decreases in blood pressure and heart rate were usually modest and asymptomatic ; however , hypotension and bradycardia can occur .
Hypotension was reported as an adverse reaction for 7 % of the guanfacine extended - release group and 3 % of the placebo group .
This includes orthostatic hypotension , which was reported for 1 % of the guanfacine extended - release group and none in the placebo group .
These findings were generally similar in the monotherapy flexible dose trial ( Study 4 ) .
In the adjunctive trial , hypotension ( 3 % ) and bradycardia ( 2 % ) were observed in patients treated with guanfacine extended - release as compared to none in the placebo group .
In long - term , open - label studies , ( mean exposure of approximately 10 months ) , maximum decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure occurred in the first month of therapy .
Decreases were less pronounced over time .
Syncope occurred in 1 % of pediatric patients in the clinical program .
The majority of these cases occurred in the long - term , open - label studies .
Effects on Height , Weight , and Body Mass Index ( BMI ) Patients taking guanfacine extended - release demonstrated similar growth compared to normative data .
Patients taking guanfacine extended - release had a mean increase in weight of 0 . 5 kg compared to those receiving placebo over a comparable treatment period .
Patients receiving guanfacine extended - release for at least 12 months in open - label studies gained an average of 8 kg in weight and 8 cm ( 3 in ) in height .
The height , weight , and BMI percentile remained stable in patients at 12 months in the long - term studies compared to when they began receiving guanfacine extended - release .
Other Adverse Reactions Observed in Clinical Studies Table 13 includes additional adverse reactions observed in short - term , placebo - controlled and long - term , open - label clinical studies not included elsewhere in section 6 . 1 , listed by organ system .
Table 13 : Other Adverse Reactions Observed in Clinical StudiesBody System Adverse Reaction Cardiac Atrioventricular block General Asthenia , chest pain Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity Investigations Increased alanine amino transferase Nervous system Convulsion Renal Increased urinary frequency Vascular Hypertension , pallor Additional pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Shire US Inc . ’ s INTUNIV ® ( guanfacine ) extended - release tablet product .
However , due to Shire US Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of guanfacine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Less frequent , possibly guanfacine - related events observed in the postmarketing study and / or reported spontaneously , not included in section 6 . 1 , include : General : edema , malaise , tremor Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , rebound hypertension , hypertensive encephalopathy Central Nervous System : paresthesias , vertigo Eye Disorders : blurred vision Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , leg cramps , leg pain , myalgia Psychiatric : confusion , hallucinations Reproductive System , Male : impotence Respiratory System : dyspnea Skin and Appendages : alopecia , dermatitis , exfoliative dermatitis , pruritus , rash Special Senses : alterations in taste 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 14 contains clinically important drug interactions with guanfacine extended - release [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 14 : Clinically Important Drug Interactions : Effect of other Drugs on Guanfacine Extended - ReleaseConcomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale and Magnitude of Drug Interaction Clinical Recommendation Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors , e . g . , ketoconazole , fluconazole Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in an increase in exposure Consider dose reduction [ see Dosage and administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers , e . g . , rifampin , efavirenz Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in a decrease in exposure Consider dose increase [ see Dosage and administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] • Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increase guanfacine exposure .
Decrease guanfacine extended - release to 50 % of target dosage when coadministered with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2 . 7 ) .
• Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers decrease guanfacine exposure .
Based on patient response , consider titrating guanfacine extended - release dosage up to double the target dosage over 1 to 2 weeks ( 2 . 7 ) .
Additional pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Shire US Inc . ’ s INTUNIV ® ( guanfacine ) extended - release tablet product .
However , due to Shire US Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of guanfacine extended - release in pregnant women .
No fetal harm was observed in rats and rabbits with administration of guanfacine at 4 and 2 . 7 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Animal data Reproduction studies conducted in rats have shown that guanfacine crosses the placenta .
However , administration of guanfacine to rats and rabbits at 4 and 2 . 7 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose of 0 . 12 mg / kg / day on a mg / m 2 basis resulted in no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Higher doses ( 13 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose in both rabbits and rats ) were associated with reduced fetal survival and maternal toxicity .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether guanfacine is excreted in human milk ; however , guanfacine is excreted in rat milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when guanfacine extended - release is administered to a nursing woman .
Observe human milk - fed infants for sedation and somnolence .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of guanfacine extended - release in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age have not been established .
The efficacy of guanfacine extended - release was studied for the treatment of ADHD in three controlled monotherapy clinical trials ( up to 8 weeks in duration ) , and one controlled adjunctive trial with psychostimulants ( 8 weeks in duration ) in children and adolescents ages 6 to 17 who met DSM - IV ® criteria for ADHD [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Additional pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Shire US Inc . ’ s INTUNIV ® ( guanfacine ) extended - release tablet product .
However , due to Shire US Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Animal Data In studies in juvenile rats , guanfacine alone produced a slight delay in sexual maturation in males and females at 2 to 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
Guanfacine in combination with methylphenidate produced a slight delay in sexual maturation and decreased growth as measured by a decrease in bone length in males at a dose of guanfacine comparable to the MRHD and a dose of methylphenidate approximately 4 times the MRHD .
In a study where juvenile rats were treated with guanfacine alone from 7 to 59 days of age , development was delayed as indicated by a slight delay in sexual maturation and decreased body weight gain in males at 2 mg / kg / day and in females at 3 mg / kg / day .
The No Adverse Effect Level ( NOAEL ) for delayed sexual maturation was 1 mg / kg / day , which is equivalent to the MRHD of 4 mg / day , on a mg / m 2 basis .
The effects on fertility were not evaluated in this study .
In a study where juvenile rats were treated with guanfacine in combination with methylphenidate from 7 to 59 days of age , a decrease in ulna bone length and a slight delay in sexual maturation were observed in males given 1 mg / kg / day of guanfacine in combination with 50 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate .
The NOAELs for these findings were 0 . 3 mg / kg of guanfacine in combination with 16 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate , which are equivalent to 0 . 3 and 1 . 4 times the MRHD of 4 mg / day and 54 mg / day for guanfacine and methylphenidate , respectively , on a mg / m 2 basis .
These findings were not observed with guanfacine alone at 1 mg / kg / day or methylphenidate alone at 50 mg / kg / day .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and efficacy of guanfacine extended - release in geriatric patients have not been established .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment It may be necessary to reduce the dosage in patients with significant impairment of renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment It may be necessary to reduce the dosage in patients with significant impairment of hepatic function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Guanfacine extended - release is not a controlled substance and has no known potential for abuse or dependence .
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms Postmarketing reports of guanfacine overdosage indicate that hypotension , drowsiness , lethargy , and bradycardia have been observed following overdose .
Initial hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension .
Similar symptoms have been described in voluntary reports to the American Association of Poison Control Center ’ s National Poison Data System .
Miosis of the pupils may be noted on examination .
No fatal overdoses of guanfacine have been reported in published literature .
Treatment Consult a Certified Poison Control Center by calling 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for up - to - date guidance and advice .
Management of guanfacine extended - release overdose should include monitoring for and the treatment of initial hypertension , if that occurs , as well as hypotension , bradycardia , lethargy and respiratory depression .
Children and adolescents who develop lethargy should be observed for the development of more serious toxicity including coma , bradycardia and hypotension for up to 24 hours , due to the possibility of delayed onset hypotension .
11 DESCRIPTION Guanfacine extended - release is a once - daily , extended - release formulation of guanfacine hydrochloride ( HCl ) , in a matrix tablet formulation for oral administration only .
The chemical designation is N - amidino - 2 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) acetamide monohydrochloride .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 9 H 9 Cl 2 N 3 O • HCl M . W . 282 . 55 Guanfacine hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder , sparingly soluble in water ( approximately 1 mg / mL ) and alcohol and slightly soluble in acetone .
The only organic solvent in which it has relatively high solubility is methanol ( greater than 30 mg / mL ) .
Each tablet contains guanfacine hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , or 4 mg of guanfacine base .
The tablets also contain colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , fumaric acid , glyceryl behenate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
In addition , the 1 mg and 2 mg tablets contain FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake and the 3 mg and 4 mg tablets contain D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Guanfacine is a central alpha 2 A - adrenergic receptor agonist .
Guanfacine is not a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mechanism of action of guanfacine in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Guanfacine is a selective central alpha 2 A - adrenergic receptor agonist in that it has a 15 to 20 times higher affinity for this receptor subtype than for the alpha 2 B or alpha 2 C subtypes .
Guanfacine is a known antihypertensive agent .
By stimulating central alpha 2 A - adrenergic receptors , guanfacine reduces sympathetic nerve impulses from the vasomotor center to the heart and blood vessels .
This results in a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance and a reduction in heart rate .
In a thorough QT study , the administration of two dose levels of immediate - release guanfacine ( 4 mg and 8 mg ) produced concentrations approximately 2 to 4 times the concentrations observed with the maximum recommended dose of guanfacine extended - release of 0 . 12 mg / kg .
Guanfacine was not shown to prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Distribution Guanfacine is readily absorbed and approximately 70 % bound to plasma proteins independent of drug concentration .
After oral administration of guanfacine extended - release the time to peak plasma concentration is approximately 5 hours in children and adolescents with ADHD .
Immediate - release guanfacine and guanfacine extended - release have different pharmacokinetic characteristics ; dose substitution on a milligram per milligram basis will result in differences in exposure .
A comparison across studies suggests that the C max is 60 % lower and AUC 0 - ∞ 43 % lower , respectively , for guanfacine extended - release compared to immediate - release guanfacine .
Therefore , the relative bioavailability of guanfacine extended - release to immediate - release guanfacine is 58 % .
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters in adults following the administration of guanfacine extended - release 1 mg once daily and immediate - release guanfacine 1 mg once daily are summarized in Table 15 .
Table 15 : Comparison of Pharmacokinetics : Guanfacine Extended - Release vs . Immediate release Guanfacine in AdultsParameter Guanfacine Extended - Release 1 mg once daily ( n = 52 ) Immediate - release guanfacine 1 mg once daily ( n = 12 ) C max ( ng / mL ) 1 . 0 ± 0 . 3 2 . 5 ± 0 . 6 AUC 0 - ∞ ( ng . h / mL ) 32 ± 9 56 ± 15 t max ( h ) 6 . 0 ( 4 . 0 – 8 . 0 ) 3 . 0 ( 1 . 5 - 4 . 0 ) t ½ ( h ) 18 ± 4 16 ± 3 Note : Values are mean + / - SD , except for t max which is median ( range ) Figure 1 : Comparison of Pharmacokinetics : Guanfacine Extended - Release vs . Immediate - release Guanfacine in Adults [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exposure to guanfacine was higher in children ( ages 6 to 12 ) compared to adolescents ( ages 13 to 17 ) and adults .
After oral administration of multiple doses of guanfacine extended - release 4 mg , the C max was 10 ng / mL compared to 7 ng / mL and the AUC was 162 ng • h / mL compared to 116 ng • h / mL in children ( ages 6 to 12 ) and adolescents ( ages 13 to 17 ) , respectively .
These differences are probably attributable to the lower body weight of children compared to adolescents and adults .
The pharmacokinetics were affected by intake of food when a single dose of guanfacine extended - release 4 mg was administered with a high - fat breakfast .
The mean exposure increased ( C max ~ 75 % and AUC ~ 40 % ) compared to dosing in a fasted state .
Dose Proportionality Following administration of guanfacine extended - release in single doses of 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg to adults , C max and AUC 0 - ∞ of guanfacine were proportional to dose .
Metabolism and Elimination In vitro studies with human liver microsomes and recombinant CYP ’ s demonstrated that guanfacine was primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 .
In pooled human hepatic microsomes , guanfacine did not inhibit the activities of the major cytochrome P450 isoenzymes ( CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 / 5 ) .
Guanfacine is a substrate of CYP3A4 / 5 and exposure is affected by CYP3A4 / 5 inducers / inhibitors .
Studies in Specific Populations Renal Impairment The impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of guanfacine in children was not assessed .
In adult patients with impaired renal function , the cumulative urinary excretion of guanfacine and the renal clearance diminished as renal function decreased .
In patients on hemodialysis , the dialysis clearance was about 15 % of the total clearance .
The low dialysis clearance suggests that the hepatic elimination ( metabolism ) increases as renal function decreases .
Hepatic Impairment The impact of hepatic impairment on PK of guanfacine in children was not assessed .
Guanfacine in adults is cleared both by the liver and the kidney , and approximately 50 % of the clearance of guanfacine is hepatic [ see Hepatic Impairment ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be affected significantly by CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers ( Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Guanfacine does not significantly affect exposures of methylphenidate and lisdexamfetamine when coadministered ( Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No carcinogenic effect of guanfacine was observed in studies of 78 weeks in mice or 102 weeks in rats at doses up to 6 . 8 times the maximum recommended human dose of 0 . 12 mg / kg / day on a mg / m 2 basis .
Mutagenesis Guanfacine was not genotoxic in a variety of test models , including the Ames test and an in vitro chromosomal aberration test ; however , a marginal increase in numerical aberrations ( polyploidy ) was observed in the latter study .
Impairment of Fertility No adverse effects were observed in fertility studies in male and female rats at doses up to 22 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m 2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy of guanfacine extended - release in the treatment of ADHD was established in children and adolescents ( 6 to 17 years ) in : • Three short - term , placebo - controlled monotherapy trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 4 ) • One short - term , placebo - controlled adjunctive trial with psychostimulants ( Study 3 ) .
Studies 1 and 2 : Fixed - dose Guanfacine Extended - ReleaseMonotherapy Study 1 ( 301 study ) was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , fixed - dose study , in which efficacy of once daily dosing with guanfacine extended - release ( 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ) was evaluated for 5 weeks ( n = 345 ) in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years .
Study 2 ( 304 study ) was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , fixed - dose study , in which efficacy of once daily dosing with guanfacine extended - release ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ) was evaluated for 6 weeks ( n = 324 ) in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years .
In both studies , randomized patients in 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg dose groups were titrated to their target fixed dose , and continued on the same dose until a dose tapering phase started .
The lowest dose of 1 mg used in Study 2 was not randomized to patients weighing more than 50 kg .
Patients who weighed less than 25 kg were not included in either study .
Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated on a once weekly basis using the clinician administered and scored ADHD Rating Scale ( ADHD - RS - IV ) , which includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
The primary efficacy outcome was the change from baseline to endpoint in ADHD - RS - IV total scores .
Endpoint was defined as the last post - randomization treatment week for which a valid score was obtained prior to dose tapering ( up to Week 5 in Study 1 and up to Week 6 in Study 2 ) .
The mean reductions in ADHD - RS - IV total scores at endpoint were statistically significantly greater for guanfacine extended - release compared to placebo for Studies 1 and 2 .
Placebo - adjusted changes from baseline were statistically significant for each of the 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg guanfacine extended - release randomized treatment groups in both studies , as well as the 1 mg guanfacine extended - release treatment group that was included only in Study 2 ( see Table 16 ) .
Dose - responsive efficacy was evident , particularly when data were examined on a weight - adjusted ( mg / kg ) basis .
When evaluated over the dose range of 0 . 01 to 0 . 17 mg / kg / day , clinically relevant improvements were observed beginning at doses in the range 0 . 05 to 0 . 08 mg / kg / day .
Doses up to 0 . 12 mg / kg / day were shown to provide additional benefit .
In the monotherapy trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) , subgroup analyses were performed to identify any differences in response based on gender or age ( 6 to 12 vs . 13 to 17 ) .
Analyses of the primary outcome did not suggest any differential responsiveness on the basis of gender .
Analyses by age revealed a statistically significant treatment effect only in the 6 to 12 age subgroup .
Due to the relatively small proportion of adolescent patients ( ages 13 to 17 ) enrolled into these studies ( approximately 25 % ) , these data may not have been sufficient to demonstrate efficacy in the adolescent patients .
In these studies , patients were randomized to a fixed dose of guanfacine extended - release rather than optimized by body weight .
Therefore , some adolescent patients were randomized to a dose that might have resulted in relatively lower plasma guanfacine concentrations compared to the younger patients .
Over half ( 55 % ) of the adolescent patients received doses of 0 . 01 to 0 . 04 mg / kg .
In studies in which systematic pharmacokinetic data were obtained , there was a strong inverse correlation between body weight and plasma guanfacine concentrations .
Table 16 : Fixed Dose StudiesStudy Primary Efficacy Measure : ADHD - RS - IV Total Score Number Mean Baseline LS Mean Change Placebo - subtracted ( Age Range ) Treatment Group Score ( SD ) from Baseline ( SE ) Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 Guanfacine Extended - Release 2 mg * 36 . 1 ( 9 . 99 ) - 15 . 9 ( 1 . 37 ) - 7 . 4 ( - 11 . 3 , - 3 . 5 ) ( 6 to 17 years ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 3 mg * 36 . 8 ( 8 . 72 ) - 16 . 0 ( 1 . 38 ) - 7 . 5 ( - 11 . 4 , - 3 . 6 ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 4 mg * 38 . 4 ( 9 . 21 ) - 18 . 5 ( 1 . 39 ) - 10 . 0 ( - 13 . 9 , - 6 . 1 ) Placebo 38 . 1 ( 9 . 34 ) - 8 . 5 ( 1 . 42 ) -- Study 2 Guanfacine Extended - Release 1 mg * ^ 41 . 7 ( 7 . 81 ) - 19 . 4 ( 1 . 69 ) - 6 . 8 ( - 11 . 3 , - 2 . 2 ) ( 6 to 17 years ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 2 mg * 39 . 9 ( 8 . 74 ) - 18 . 1 ( 1 . 60 ) - 5 . 4 ( - 9 . 9 , - 0 . 9 ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 3 mg * 39 . 1 ( 9 . 22 ) - 20 . 0 ( 1 . 64 ) - 7 . 3 ( - 11 . 8 , - 2 . 8 ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 4 mg * 40 . 6 ( 8 . 57 ) - 20 . 6 ( 1 . 60 ) - 7 . 9 ( - 12 . 3 , - 3 . 4 ) Placebo 39 . 3 ( 8 . 85 ) - 12 . 7 ( 1 . 60 ) -- SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : unadjusted confidence interval .
a Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
* Doses statistically significantly superior to placebo .
^ The lowest dose of 1 mg used in Study 2 was not randomized to patients weighing more than 50 kg .
Study 3 : Flexible - dose Guanfacine Extended - Releaseas Adjunctive Therapy to Psychostimulants Study 3 ( 313 study ) was a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , dose - optimization study , in which efficacy of once daily optimized dosing ( morning or evening ) with guanfacine extended - release ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg and 4 mg ) , when coadministered with psychostimulants , was evaluated for 8 weeks , in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with a diagnosis of ADHD , with a sub - optimal response to stimulants ( n = 455 ) .
Patients were started at the 1 mg guanfacine extended - release dose level and were titrated weekly over a 5 - week dose - optimization period to an optimal guanfacine extended - release dose not to exceed 4 mg / day based on tolerability and clinical response .
The dose was then maintained for a 3 - week dose maintenance period before entry to 1 week of dose tapering .
Patients took guanfacine extended - release either in the morning or the evening while maintaining their current dose of psychostimulant treatment given each morning .
Allowable psychostimulants in the study were ADDERALL XR ® , VYVANSE ® , CONCERTA ® , FOCALIN XR ® , RITALIN LA ® , METADATE CD ® or FDA - approved generic equivalents .
Symptoms of ADHD were evaluated on a weekly basis by clinicians using the ADHD Rating Scale ( ADHD - RS - IV ) , which includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
The primary efficacy outcome was the change from baseline to endpoint in ADHD - RS - IV total scores .
Endpoint was defined as the last post - randomization treatment week prior to dose tapering for which a valid score was obtained ( up to Week 8 ) .
Mean reductions in ADHD - RS - IV total scores at endpoint were statistically significantly greater for guanfacine extended - release given in combination with a psychostimulant compared to placebo given with a psychostimulant for Study 3 , for both morning and evening guanfacine extended - release dosing ( see Table 17 ) .
Nearly two - thirds ( 64 . 2 % ) of patients reached optimal doses in the 0 . 05 to 0 . 12 mg / kg / day range .
Study 4 : Flexible - dose Guanfacine Extended - Release Monotherapy Study 4 ( 314 study ) was a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , dose - optimization study , in which efficacy of once daily dosing ( morning or evening ) with guanfacine extended - release ( 1 mg , 2 mg , 3 mg , and 4 mg ) was evaluated for 8 weeks in children aged 6 to 12 years ( n = 340 ) .
Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated on a once weekly basis using the clinician administered and scored ADHD Rating Scale ( ADHD - RS - IV ) , which includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
The primary efficacy outcome was the change from baseline score at endpoint on the ADHD - RS - IV total scores .
Endpoint was defined as the last post - randomization treatment week for which a valid score was obtained prior to dose tapering ( up to Week 8 ) .
Mean reductions in ADHD - RS - IV total scores at endpoint were statistically significantly greater for guanfacine extended - release compared to placebo in both AM and PM dosing groups of guanfacine extended - release ( see Table 17 ) .
Table 17 : Flexible - Dose Studies Primary Efficacy Measure : ADHD - RS - IV Total Study Mean Baseline LS Mean Placebo - Number Score ( SD ) Change from subtracted ( Age Range ) Treatment Group Baseline ( SE ) Differenceb ( 95 % CI ) Study 3 a Guanfacine Extended - Release 1 to 4 mg AM * 37 . 6 ( 8 . 13 ) - 20 . 3 ( 0 . 97 ) - 4 . 5 ( - 7 . 5 , - 1 . 4 ) ( 6 to 17 years ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 1 to 4 mg PM * 37 . 0 ( 7 . 65 ) - 21 . 2 ( 0 . 97 ) - 5 . 3 ( - 8 . 3 , - 2 . 3 ) Placebo 37 . 7 ( 7 . 75 ) - 15 . 9 ( 0 . 96 ) -- Study 4 Guanfacine Extended - Release 1 to 4 mg AM * 41 . 7 ( 6 . 39 ) - 20 . 0 ( 1 . 23 ) - 9 . 4 ( - 12 . 8 , - 6 . 0 ) ( 6 to 12 years ) Guanfacine Extended - Release 1 to 4 mg PM * 41 . 6 ( 6 . 66 ) - 20 . 4 ( 1 . 19 ) - 9 . 8 ( - 13 . 1 , - 6 . 4 ) Placebo 42 . 9 ( 6 . 29 ) - 10 . 6 ( 1 . 20 ) -- SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : unadjusted confidence interval .
a Treatment was given in combination with a psychostimulant .
b Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
* Doses statistically significantly superior to placebo .
Additional pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 17 years is approved for Shire US Inc . ’ s INTUNIV ® ( guanfacine ) extended - release tablet product .
However , due to Shire US Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Guanfacine extended - release tablets are available as follows : 1 mg - Each orange , round tablet debossed with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and 850 on the other side contains guanfacine hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 1 mg of guanfacine base .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 42291 - 324 - 01 ) .
2 mg - Each orange , oval tablet debossed with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and 851 on the other side contains guanfacine hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 2 mg of guanfacine base .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 42291 - 325 - 01 ) .
3 mg - Each yellow , round tablet debossed with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and 853 on the other side contains guanfacine hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 3 mg of guanfacine base .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 42291 - 326 - 01 ) .
4 mg - Each yellow , oval tablet debossed with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and 855 on the other side contains guanfacine hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 4 mg of guanfacine base .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 42291 - 327 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Dosing and Administration Instruct patients to swallow guanfacine extended - release tablets whole with water , milk or other liquid .
Tablets should not be crushed , chewed or broken prior to administration because this may increase the rate of release of the active drug .
Patients should not take guanfacine extended - release tablets together with a high - fat meal , since this can raise blood levels of guanfacine extended - release .
Instruct the parent or caregiver to supervise the child or adolescent taking guanfacine extended - release tablets and to keep the bottle of tablets out of reach of children .
Advise patients not to abruptly discontinue guanfacine extended - release tablets as abrupt discontinuation can result in clinically significant rebound hypertension .
Concomitant stimulant use and abrupt discontinuation of guanfacine extended - release tablets may increase this hypertensive response .
Instruct patients on how to properly taper the dose to minimize the risk of rebound hypertension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Advise patients that sedation can occur , particularly early in treatment or with dose increases .
Caution against operating heavy equipment or driving until they know how they respond to treatment with guanfacine extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Headache and abdominal pain can also occur .
If any of these symptoms persist , or other symptoms occur , the patient should be advised to discuss the symptoms with the health care provider .
Advise patients to avoid becoming dehydrated or overheated , which may potentially increase the risks of hypotension and syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to avoid use with alcohol .
Brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 01 / 18 AV Rev . 10 / 18 ( P ) Patient Information Guanfacine ( gwahn ' fa seen ) Extended - Release Tablets Rx Only Read the Patient Information that comes with guanfacine extended - release before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What areguanfacine extended - release tablets ?
Guanfacine extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine used to treat the symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
Guanfacine extended - release tablets may be used alone or with ADHD stimulant medicines .
Guanfacine extended - release is not a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
It is not known if guanfacine extended - release tablets are safe and effective in children younger than 6 years of age .
Who should not take guanfacine extended - release tablets ?
Do not take guanfacine extended - release tablets if you are allergic to guanfacine or any of the ingredients in guanfacine extended - release tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in guanfacine extended - release tablets .
What should I tell my doctor before taking guanfacine extended - release tablets ?
Before you take guanfacine extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have heart problems or a low heart rate • have fainted • have low or high blood pressure • have liver or kidney problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if guanfacine extended - release tablets will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if guanfacine passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby while taking guanfacine extended - release .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Guanfacine extended - release tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how guanfacine extended - release tablets work .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • ketoconazole • medicines that can affect enzyme metabolism • high blood pressure medicine • sedatives • benzodiazepines • barbiturates • antipsychotics Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I takeguanfacine extended - release tablets ?
• Take guanfacine extended - release tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Your doctor may change your dose .
Do not change your dose of guanfacine extended - release tablets without talking to your doctor .
• Try not to miss your dose of guanfacine extended - release tablets .
If you miss a dose of guanfacine extended - release tablets , take the next dose at your regular time .
If you miss 2 or more doses , talk to your doctor , as you may need to restart guanfacine extended - release tablets with a lower dose .
• Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed dose .
• Do not stop taking guanfacine extended - release tablets without talking to your doctor .
• Guanfacine extended - release tablets should be taken 1 time a day in the morning or in the evening , either alone or in combination with an ADHD stimulant medicine that your doctor may prescribe .
Your doctor will tell you when to take guanfacine extended - release tablets and when to take your ADHD stimulant medication .
• Guanfacine extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole with a small amount of water , milk , or other liquid .
• Do not crush , chew , or break guanfacine extended - release tablets .
Tell your doctor if you cannot swallow guanfacine extended - release tablets whole .
• Do not take guanfacine extended - release tablets with a high - fat meal .
• Your doctor will check your blood pressure and heart rate while you take guanfacine extended - release tablets .
• If you take too many guanfacine extended - release tablets , call your local Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking guanfacine extended - release tablets ?
• Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how guanfacine extended - release tablets affect you .
Guanfacine extended - release tablets can slow your thinking and motor skills .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking guanfacine extended - release tablets until you talk with your doctor .
Guanfacine extended - release tablets taken with alcohol or medicines that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
• Do not become dehydrated or overheated .
This may increase your chance of having low blood pressure or fainting while taking guanfacine extended - release tablets .
• Do not suddenly stop guanfacine extended - release tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have been vomiting and cannot take guanfacine extended - release tablets , you may be at risk for rebound hypertension .
What are the possible side effects of guanfacine extended - release tablets ?
Guanfacine extended - release tabletsmay cause serious side effects including : • low blood pressure • low heart rate • fainting • sleepiness • increased blood pressure and heart rate after suddenly stopping guanfacine extended - release tablets ( rebound hypertension ) .
Suddenly stopping guanfacine extended - release tablets can cause increased blood pressure and heart rate and other withdrawal symptoms such as headache , confusion , nervousness , agitation , and tremors .
If these symptoms continue to get worse and are left untreated , it could lead to a very serious condition including very high blood pressure , feeling very sleepy or tired , severe headache , vomiting , vision problems , seizures .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of the symptoms listed above .
The most common side effects of guanfacine extended - release tablets include : • sleepiness • tiredness • trouble sleeping • low blood pressure • nausea • stomach pain • dizziness • dry mouth • irritability • vomiting • slow heart rate Tell the doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of guanfacine extended - release tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I storeguanfacine extended - release tablets ?
• Store guanfacine extended - release tablets between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) Keep guanfacine extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use guanfacine extended - release tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use guanfacine extended - release tablets for a condition for which they were not prescribed .
Do not give guanfacine extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about guanfacine extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about guanfacine extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 .
What are the ingredients in guanfacine extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredient : guanfacine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , fumaric acid , glyceryl behenate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
In addition , the 1 mg and 2 mg tablets contain FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake and the 3 mg and 4 mg tablets contain D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 01 / 18 AV Rev . 10 / 18 ( P ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
