1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rolvedon is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection , as manifested by febrile neutropenia , in adult patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti - cancer drugs associated with clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia .
Limitations of Use Rolvedon is not indicated for the mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
Rolvedon is a leukocyte growth factor indicated to decrease the incidence of infection , as manifested by febrile neutropenia , in adult patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti - cancer drugs associated with clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Rolvedon is not indicated for the mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended Dose : 13 . 2 mg administered subcutaneously once per chemotherapy cycle .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer approximately 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy .
Do not administer within the period from 14 days before to 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of Rolvedon is a single subcutaneous injection of 13 . 2 mg administered once per chemotherapy cycle .
Administer approximately 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy .
Do not administer within the period from 14 days before to 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy .
2 . 2 Administration Rolvedon is administered subcutaneously via a single - dose prefilled syringe by a healthcare professional .
Prior to use ‚ remove the carton from the refrigerator ( keeping the prefilled syringe inside the carton ) for a minimum of 30 minutes to allow the product to reach room temperature .
Discard any prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 12 hours .
Do not shake .
If Rolvedon is accidentally frozen , do not use .
Remove the tray from box and carefully remove the prefilled syringe from the tray .
If you drop the prefilled syringe onto a hard surface , do not use it .
Use a new syringe for the injection .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer Rolvedon if discoloration or particulates are observed .
Administer the entire contents of the prefilled syringe .
If the patient or caregiver misses a dose of Rolvedon , instruct them to contact their healthcare provider .
The Rolvedon prefilled syringe does not bear graduation marks and is intended only to deliver the entire contents of the syringe ( 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL ) for direct administration .
Not made with natural rubber latex .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL as a clear , colorless , preservative - free solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe .
Injection : 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rolvedon is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to eflapegrastim , pegfilgrastim , or filgrastim products .
Reactions may include anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to human granulocyte colony - stimulating factors such as eflapegrastim , pegfilgrastim or filgrastim products .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fatal splenic rupture : Evaluate patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture .
( 5 . 1 ) • Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) : Evaluate patients who develop fever , lung infiltrates , or respiratory distress .
Discontinue Rolvedon in patients with ARDS .
( 5 . 2 ) • Serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis : Permanently discontinue Rolvedon in patients with serious allergic reactions .
( 5 . 3 ) • Sickle Cell Crisis in Patients with Sickle Cell Disorders : Discontinue Rolvedon if sickle cell crisis occurs .
( 5 . 4 ) • Glomerulonephritis : Evaluate and consider dose - reduction or interruption of Rolvedon if causality is likely .
( 5 . 5 ) • Leukocytosis : Monitor complete blood count ( CBC ) during Rolvedon therapy .
( 5 . 6 ) • Thrombocytopenia : Monitor platelet counts .
( 5 . 7 ) • Myelodysplastic Syndrome ( MDS ) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) : Monitor patients with breast and lung cancer using Rolvedon in conjunction with chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy for signs and symptoms of MDS / AML .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Splenic Rupture Splenic rupture , including fatal cases , can occur following the administration of recombinant human granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( rhG - CSF ) products , such as Rolvedon .
Evaluate for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture in patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain after receiving Rolvedon .
5 . 2 Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) can occur in patients receiving rhG - CSF products , such as Rolvedon .
Evaluate patients who develop fever and lung infiltrates or respiratory distress after receiving Rolvedon for ARDS .
Discontinue Rolvedon in patients with ARDS .
5 . 3 Serious Allergic Reactions Serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , can occur in patients receiving rhG - CSF products , such as Rolvedon .
Permanently discontinue Rolvedon in patients with serious allergic reactions .
Rolvedon is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to eflapegrastim , pegfilgrastim , or filgrastim products [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Sickle Cell Crisis in Patients with Sickle Cell Disorders Severe and sometimes fatal sickle cell crises can occur in patients with sickle cell disorders receiving rhG - CSF products , such as Rolvedon .
Discontinue Rolvedon if sickle cell crisis occurs .
5 . 5 Glomerulonephritis Glomerulonephritis has occurred in patients receiving rhG - CSF products .
The diagnoses were based upon azotemia , hematuria ( microscopic and macroscopic ) , proteinuria , and renal biopsy .
Generally , events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose - reduction or discontinuation of rhG - CSF .
If glomerulonephritis is suspected , evaluate for cause .
If causality is likely , consider dose - reduction or interruption of Rolvedon .
5 . 6 Leukocytosis White blood cell ( WBC ) counts of 100 x 10 9 / L or greater have been observed in patients receiving rhG - CSF products .
Monitor complete blood count ( CBC ) during Rolvedon therapy .
Discontinue Rolvedon treatment if WBC count of 100 x 10 9 / L or greater occurs .
5 . 7 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia has been reported in patients receiving rhG - CSF products .
Monitor platelet counts .
5 . 8 Capillary Leak Syndrome Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after administration of rhG - CSF products and is characterized by hypotension , hypoalbuminemia , edema and hemoconcentration .
Episodes vary in frequency and severity , and may be life - threatening if treatment is delayed .
Patients who develop symptoms of capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment , which may include a need for intensive care .
5 . 9 Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells The granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G - CSF ) receptor through which Rolvedon acts has been found on tumor cell lines .
The possibility that Rolvedon acts as a growth factor for any tumor type , including myeloid malignancies and myelodysplasia , diseases for which Rolvedon is not approved , cannot be excluded .
5 . 10 Myelodysplastic Syndrome ( MDS ) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) in Patients with Breast and Lung Cancer MDS and AML have been associated with the use of rhG - CSF products in conjunction with chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy in patients with breast and lung cancer .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of MDS / AML in these settings .
5 . 11 Aortitis Aortitis has been reported in patients receiving rhG - CSF products .
It may occur as early as the first week after start of therapy .
Manifestations may include generalized signs and symptoms such as fever , abdominal pain , malaise , back pain , and increased inflammatory markers ( e . g . , c - reactive protein and white blood cell count ) .
Consider aortitis in patients who develop these signs and symptoms without known etiology .
Discontinue Rolvedon if aortitis is suspected .
5 . 12 Nuclear Imaging Increased hematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been associated with transient positive bone imaging findings .
This should be considered when interpreting bone imaging results .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Splenic rupture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute respiratory distress syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Serious allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Sickle cell crisis in patients with sickle cell disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Glomerulonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Leukocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Capillary leak syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Potential for tumor growth stimulatory effects on malignant cells [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Myelodysplastic Syndrome ( MDS ) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) in Patients with Breast and Lung Cancer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Aortitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Nuclear Imaging [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) are fatigue , nausea , diarrhea , bone pain , headache , pyrexia , anemia , rash , myalgia , arthralgia , and back pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 713 - 0688 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of Rolvedon was evaluated in Study 1 and Study 2 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients with early - stage breast cancer received Rolvedon 13 . 2 mg by subcutaneous injection ( n = 314 ) or pegfilgrastim 6 mg by subcutaneous injection ( n = 326 ) on Day 2 of each cycle after docetaxel 75 mg / m 2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg / m 2 ( TC ) chemotherapy .
Among patients receiving Rolvedon , a total of 272 patients received four 21 - day treatment cycles .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) were fatigue , nausea , diarrhea , bone pain , headache , pyrexia , anemia , rash , myalgia , arthralgia , and back pain .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in Studies 1 and 2 .
Table 1 .
Common Adverse Reactions with a Frequency of ≥ 10 % Through Week 14 in Patients with Early - Stage Breast Cancer in Study 1 and Study 2 * Grouped Terms ** Study 1 and Study 2 were not designed to evaluate meaningful comparisons of the incidence of adverse reactions in the Rolvedon and the pegfilgrastim treatment groups .
Adverse Reaction Rolvedon ( N = 314 ) % Pegfilgrastim ** ( N = 326 ) % Fatigue * 181 ( 58 % ) 192 ( 59 % ) Nausea 162 ( 52 % ) 166 ( 51 % ) Diarrhea 125 ( 40 % ) 126 ( 39 % ) Bone pain 119 ( 38 % ) 121 ( 37 % ) Headache * 92 ( 29 % ) 90 ( 28 % ) Pyrexia * 87 ( 28 % ) 84 ( 26 % ) Anemia * 77 ( 25 % ) 52 ( 16 % ) Rash * 77 ( 25 % ) 99 ( 30 % ) Myalgia 69 ( 22 % ) 49 ( 15 % ) Arthralgia 66 ( 21 % ) 48 ( 15 % ) Back pain * 63 ( 20 % ) 55 ( 17 % ) Decreased appetite 61 ( 19 % ) 50 ( 15 % ) Peripheral edema * 57 ( 18 % ) 53 ( 16 % ) Abdominal pain * 53 ( 17 % ) 67 ( 21 % ) Dizziness * 50 ( 16 % ) 38 ( 12 % ) Dyspnea * 49 ( 16 % ) 44 ( 13 % ) Cough * 48 ( 15 % ) 51 ( 16 % ) Thrombocytopenia * 44 ( 14 % ) 17 ( 5 % ) Pain 37 ( 12 % ) 42 ( 13 % ) Pain in extremity 36 ( 11 % ) 42 ( 13 % ) Local administration reactions * 34 ( 11 % ) 27 ( 8 % ) Flushing 32 ( 10 % ) 27 ( 8 % ) Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 4 % of patients who received Rolvedon .
The adverse reaction requiring permanent discontinuation in 3 patients who received Rolvedon was rash .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Rolvedon use in pregnant women ; however , data from published studies with use of other recombinant human granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( rhG - CSF ) products in pregnant women have not identified any drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
In rats , eflapegrastim - xnst did not adversely affect embryofetal and / or postnatal development when administered from organogenesis throughout lactation at doses that produced maternal exposures up to 7 times the exposure at the recommended clinical dose .
In rabbits , eflapegrastim - xnst caused embryofetal lethality and reduced fetal weight when administered during the organogenesis period at approximately 6 times the exposure at the clinical dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal developmental study in rabbits , eflapegrastim - xnst was administered subcutaneously every other day during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 10 times the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended dose of 13 . 2 mg .
Increased post - implantation loss , reduced number of live fetuses , and reduced fetal body weights were observed at 6 times the clinical exposure , based on AUC .
No malformations were observed up to 10 times the clinical exposure , based on AUC .
In an embryofetal developmental study in rats , eflapegrastim - xnst administered subcutaneously every other day during the period of organogenesis did not adversely affect embryofetal development at doses up to 7 times clinical exposure , based on AUC .
In a pre - and post - natal development study in rats , eflapegrastim - xnst administered subcutaneously once weekly from organogenesis through lactation did not adversely affect behavioral , developmental , or reproductive parameters at doses up to 7 times the clinical exposure , based on AUC .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of eflapegrastim - xnst in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Endogenous granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G - CSF ) is present in human milk .
Other recombinant human granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( rhG - CSF ) products are present in human milk at low levels and are not orally absorbed by infants .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Rolvedon and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Rolvedon or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 314 patients in clinical studies of Rolvedon , 39 % were 65 and over , while 6 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of Rolvedon may result in leukocytosis and bone pain .
In the event of overdose , general supportive measures should be instituted as necessary .
Monitor the patient for adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Eflapegrastim - xnst is a granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G ‑ CSF ) produced by covalent coupling of a human G - CSF analog ( 18 . 6 kDa ) and an Fc fragment of human immunoglobulin G4 ( IgG4 ) ( 49 . 8 kDa ) , both derived from recombinant E . coli , via a single 3 . 4 kDa polyethylene glycol linker .
The recombinant G - CSF domain in eflapegrastim - xnst is a variant of human G - CSF with two serine substitutions at positions 17 and 65 , and no additional N - terminal methionine .
Eflapegrastim - xnst has a molecular weight of approximately 72 kDa .
Rolvedon ( eflapegrastim - xnst ) injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear , colorless solution supplied in a single - dose prefilled syringe for subcutaneous use .
Each 0 . 6 mL single - dose prefilled syringe contains 13 . 2 mg of eflapegrastim - xnst , citric acid monohydrate ( 2 . 52 mg ) , mannitol ( 30 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 72 mg ) and sodium chloride ( 5 . 26 mg ) in Water for Injection .
Sodium hydroxide may be used to adjust pH to 5 . 5 during manufacturing .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Eflapegrastim - xnst is a recombinant human granulocyte growth factor that binds to G - CSF receptors on myeloid progenitor cells and neutrophils , triggering signaling pathways that control cell differentiation , proliferation , migration and survival .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Eflapegrastim - xnst has been shown to elevate neutrophil counts in healthy subjects and in cancer patients .
Absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) , C max and area under the effect curve ( AUEC last ) increased with increasing doses of eflapegrastim - xnst in a linear , but less than dose - proportional , manner over a dose range of 45 to 350 mcg / kg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of eflapegrastim - xnst was studied in healthy subjects and patients with breast cancer .
After subcutaneous ( SC ) dosing , the pharmacokinetics of eflapegrastim - xnst was nonlinear and exposure increases were not dose - proportional over the dose range of 45 to 350 mcg / kg .
Absorption The median T max of eflapegrastim - xnst is 25 hours ( 6 to 144 hours ) in patients with breast cancer following administration of the recommended dosage .
Distribution The volume of distribution of eflapegrastim - xnst is 1 . 44 L . Elimination The geometric mean half - life of eflapegrastim - xnst in patients with breast cancer is 36 . 4 hours ( Range : 16 . 1 to 115 hours ) during Cycle 1 .
Eflapegrastim - xnst clearance decreased with increasing doses following single dose administration , suggesting target - mediated clearance of eflapegrastim - xnst by neutrophils .
Following repeat administration , clearance increased in Cycle 3 as compared to Cycle 1 , potentially due to the subsequent increase in neutrophils .
In in vitro studies , the IgG4 Fc fragment in eflapegrastim - xnst binds to the neonatal Fc receptor ( FcRn ) , facilitating the FcRn - mediated transcytosis of eflapegrastim - xnst .
Metabolism Eflapegrastim - xnst is expected to be metabolized by endogenous degradation following receptor - mediated internalization by cells bearing the G - CSF receptor .
Excretion Eflapegrastim - xnst was not detected in urine .
Drug Interaction Studies No studies evaluating the drug interaction potential of eflapegrastim - xnst have been conducted .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti - drug antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies , including those of eflapegrastim - xnst or of other eflapegrastim products .
Antibodies to eflapegrastim - xnst were detected using bridging enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) with a sensitivity of 65 ng / mL .
During the 12 - week treatment period in the two randomized studies , twenty - one of 297 ( 7 . 1 % ) patients treated with eflapegrastim - xnst developed antibodies .
At the 12 - month follow - up visit after the last dose of treatment in the two randomized studies , 28 of 297 ( 9 . 4 % ) patients treated with eflapegrastim - xnst developed antibodies .
Neutralizing antibodies were detected by a cell - based assay with a sensitivity of 1 . 95 mcg / mL .
One patient out of 297 ( 0 . 3 % ) in the eflapegrastim - xnst arm tested positive for neutralizing antibodies post - treatment .
Treatment - emergent anti - PEG antibodies were detected by a direct binding ELISA in 126 out of 268 patients ( 47 % ) treated with eflapegrastim - xnst .
There was no identified clinically significant effect of anti - drug antibodies on pharmacokinetics , pharmacodynamics , safety or effectiveness of Rolvedon over the treatment duration of 12 weeks .
There was no identified clinically significant effect of anti - drug antibodies on the safety profile of Rolvedon during the 12 - month follow - up period after the last dose .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed with eflapegrastim - xnst .
Eflapegrastim - xnst was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a standard battery of genotoxicity tests ( bacterial mutagenicity ( Ames ) , Chinese hamster ovary cells chromosomal aberration , rat bone marrow micronucleus ) .
Eflapegrastim - xnst did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats at weekly doses up to 7 times the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended dose of 13 . 2 mg .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy The efficacy of Rolvedon to decrease the incidence of infection , as manifested by febrile neutropenia , in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti - cancer drugs was evaluated in two 1 : 1 randomized , open - label , active - controlled non - inferiority studies of similar design ( Study 1 [ NCT02643420 ] and Study 2 [ NCT02953340 ] ) that enrolled a total of 643 patients with early - stage breast cancer .
Docetaxel 75 mg / m 2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg / m 2 ( TC ) were administered intravenously every 21 days ( on Day 1 of each cycle ) for up to 4 cycles .
A fixed dose of Rolvedon 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL or pegfilgrastim ( 6 mg / 0 . 6 mL ) was administered subcutaneously on Day 2 of each cycle after TC chemotherapy .
The median age of patients enrolled in the two randomized studies was 60 years ( Range : 24 to 88 ) , the majority of patients were female ( > 99 % ) , 77 % were White and 12 % were Black or African American .
Study 1 enrolled 406 patients ; 196 patients to the Rolvedon arm and 210 patients to the pegfilgrastim arm .
Study 2 enrolled 237 patients ; 118 patients to the Rolvedon arm and 119 patients to the pegfilgrastim arm .
Efficacy for both trials was based on the duration of severe neutropenia ( DSN ) in Cycle 1 .
Efficacy results are shown in Table 2 .
In both studies , Rolvedon was non - inferior to pegfilgrastim .
The distributions of the severe neutropenia events in percentage from Cycle 1 for Study 1 and Study 2 are presented in Figure 1 .
Table 2 .
Duration of Severe Neutropenia ( DSN ) in Cycle 1 ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) aConfidence intervals were obtained using 2 . 5 percentile and 97 . 5 percentile of the 100 , 000 bootstrap samples with treatment as stratification factor .
* The non - inferiority of Rolvedon to pegfilgrastim was to be declared if the upper bound of 95 % CI of the difference in mean DSN between the treatment arms was < 0 . 62 days .
Study 1 Study 2 Rolvedon ( n = 196 ) Pegfilgrastim ( n = 210 ) Rolvedon ( n = 118 ) Pegfilgrastim ( n = 119 ) Mean DSN ( SD ) ( Days ) 0 . 20 ( 0 . 503 ) 0 . 35 ( 0 . 683 ) 0 . 31 ( 0 . 688 ) 0 . 39 ( 0 . 949 ) Median DSN ( Range ) ( Days ) 0 ( 0 , 3 ) 0 ( 0 , 3 ) 0 ( 0 , 3 ) 0 ( 0 , 7 ) Difference in DSN ( Days ) - 0 . 148 - 0 . 073 * 95 % Confidence Interval a - 0 . 265 , - 0 . 033 - 0 . 292 , 0 . 129 Figure 1 .
Duration of Severe Neutropenia ( DSN ) by Day in Cycle 1 ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Rolvedon ( eflapegrastim - xnst ) injection is a clear , colorless solution supplied in a single - dose prefilled syringe containing 13 . 2 mg of eflapegrastim - xnst in 0 . 6 mL solution , with 29 - gauge 1 / 2 inch pre - attached ( staked ) needle with a needle guard .
Rolvedon is provided in a dispensing pack containing one sterile 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL prefilled syringe ( NDC 76961 ‑ 101 - 01 ) .
Store refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the carton to protect from light .
Do not shake .
Discard syringes stored at room temperature for more than 12 hours .
Do not freeze ; discard syringe if frozen .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Rolvedon should only be given by a healthcare professional .
Inform patients to contact their healthcare provider with any questions .
Advise patients of the following risks and potential risks with Rolvedon : • Splenic rupture and splenomegaly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute respiratory distress syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Serious allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Sickle cell crisis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Glomerulonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Leukocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Capillary leak syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Potential for tumor growth stimulatory effects on malignant cells [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Increased risk of myelodysplastic syndrome and / or acute myeloid leukemia in patients with breast and lung cancer who receive Rolvedon in conjunction with chemotherapy and / or radiation therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Aortitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Manufactured by : Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
18200 Von Karman Avenue , Suite 700 Irvine , CA 92612 USA U . S . License No . 2312 PATIENT INFORMATION Rolvedon ™ ( roll veh don ) ( eflapegrastim - xnst ) injection What is Rolvedon ?
Rolvedon is a man - made form of granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G - CSF ) .
G - CSF is a substance produced by the body .
It stimulates the growth of neutrophils , a type of white blood cell important in the body ’ s fight against infection .
It is not known if Rolvedon is safe and effective in children .
Do not take Rolvedon if you have had a serious allergic reaction to eflapegrastim , pegfilgrastim or filgrastim products .
Before receiving Rolvedon , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a sickle cell disorder • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Rolvedon can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant during treatment with Rolvedon .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Rolvedon passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive Rolvedon ?
• Rolvedon is given as an injection under your skin ( subcutaneous injection ) by a healthcare provider .
• You will receive 1 injection of Rolvedon for each cycle of chemotherapy .
• You will receive your injection of Rolvedon about 24 hours after you finish receiving your chemotherapy .
• You should not receive Rolvedon for 14 days before or within 24 hours after your dose of chemotherapy .
• If you miss a dose of Rolvedon , talk to your healthcare provider about when you should receive your next dose .
What are the possible side effects of Rolvedon ?
Rolvedon may cause serious side effects , including : • Spleen rupture .
Your spleen may become enlarged and can rupture .
A ruptured spleen can cause death .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have pain in the left upper stomach - area or your left shoulder .
• A serious lung problem called Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you have shortness of breath with or without a fever , trouble breathing , or a fast rate of breathing .
• • Serious allergic reactions .
Rolvedon can cause serious allergic reactions .
These reactions can cause a rash all over your whole body , shortness of breath , wheezing , dizziness , swelling around your mouth or eyes , fast heart rate , and sweating .
If you have any of these symptoms call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away .
• • Sickle cell crises .
You may have a serious sickle cell crisis , which could lead to death , if you have a sickle cell disorder and receive Rolvedon .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop symptoms of sickle cell crisis such as pain or difficulty breathing .
• • Kidney injury ( glomerulonephritis ) .
Rolvedon can cause kidney injury .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of the following symptoms : • swelling of your face or ankles • blood in your urine or dark colored urine • you urinate less than usual • Increased white blood cell count ( leukocytosis ) .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood count during treatment with Rolvedon .
• • Decreased platelet count ( thrombocytopenia ) .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood during treatment with Rolvedon .
This could be a sign of decreased platelet counts , which may reduce the ability of your blood to clot .
• • Capillary Leak Syndrome .
Rolvedon can cause fluid to leak from blood vessels into your body ’ s tissues .
This condition is called “ Capillary Leak Syndrome ” ( CLS ) .
CLS can quickly cause you to have symptoms that may become life - threatening .
Get emergency help right away if you develop any of the following symptoms : • swelling or puffiness and are urinating less than usual • trouble breathing • swelling of your stomach area ( abdomen ) and feeling of fullness • dizziness or feeling faint • a general feeling of tiredness • Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia .
If you have breast cancer or lung cancer , when Rolvedon is used with chemotherapy and radiation therapy , or with radiation therapy alone , you may have an increased risk of developing a precancerous blood condition called myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) or a blood cancer called acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) .
Symptoms of MDS and AML may include tiredness , fever , and easy bruising or bleeding .
Call your healthcare provider if you develop these symptoms during treatment with Rolvedon .
• • Inflammation of the aorta ( aortitis ) .
Inflammation of the aorta ( the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the body ) has been reported in patients who received pegfilgrastim products .
Symptoms may include fever , abdominal pain , feeling tired , and back pain .
Call your healthcare provider if you experience these symptoms .
The most common side effects of Rolvedon include : • tiredness • nausea • diarrhea • bone pain • headache • fever • decreased red blood cell count • rash • muscle and joint pain • back pain These are not all the possible side effects of Rolvedon .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of Rolvedon .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Rolvedon that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Rolvedon ?
Active ingredient : eflapegrastim - xnst Inactive ingredients : citric acid monohydrate , mannitol , polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride in Water for Injection .
Sodium hydroxide may be used to adjust pH to 5 . 5 during manufacturing .
Manufactured by : Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 18200 Von Karman Avenue , Suite 700 , Irvine , CA 92612 USA U . S . License No . 2312 For more information , go to www . rolvedon . com or call 1 - 888 - 713 - 0688 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 09 / 2022 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rolvedon ( eflapegrastim - xnst ) injection 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rolvedon ( eflapegrastim - xnst ) injection 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL For subcutaneous injection by a healthcare provider only Sterile Solution – No Preservative One 0 . 6 mL Single - dose Pre - filled Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rolvedon ( eflapegrastim - xnst ) injection 13 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL NDC 76961 - 101 - 01 Rx only For subcutaneous injection by a healthcare provider only Sterile Solution – No Preservative One 0 . 6 mL Single - dose Pre - filled Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
