Active Ingredient Hydrogen Peroxide 1 . 7 % ( w / w ) Purpose Wound Cleanser Indication and Uses For temporary use in cleansing minor oral wounds and treatment of inflammation resulting from dental procedures or other irritations of the mouth and gums .
Perio Armor may be used for decreasing the presence of plaque , a known factor in the development of gingivitis and tooth decay .
Directions For children under 2 years of age , consult a dentist or physician before use .
For adults and children 2 years of age or older : 1 .
Remove cap and cut the tip of the tube at the narrow end .
2 .
Apply several drops of the gel directly onto the affected area in the mouth .
3 .
Leave the gel on the affected area for at least 60 seconds , then spit .
4 .
Use up to 4 times daily after meals , at bedtime , or as directed by a dentist or physician .
Other Information Store at room temperature between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) and away from direct sunlight .
Do not use if the tube has been damaged or tampered in any way Inactive Ingredients ( mint flavor ) Ethyl Alcohol , Menthol , Methyl Salicylate , Phosphoric Acid , Poloxamer 407 , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Water Question or comments ?
( 800 ) 437 - 1514 or www . gingi - pak . com .
Warning Do not use Do not use Perio Armor for more than 7 days unless directed by your dentist or physician .
Stop use Stop use and consult your dentist or physician if : • Symptoms do not improve within 7 days • Irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • Swelling , rash , or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
Inactive Ingredients ( Strawberry and Bubblegum ) Ethyl Alcohol , Phosphoric Acide , Poloxamer 407 , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Water , Natural and Artificial Flavors Principle Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principle Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principle Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
