Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 13 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 2 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Hold can 4 - 6 inches away from the skin to apply • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray into hands then apply to face • Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broa Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain or damage some fabrics , materials or surfaces Inactive Ingredients water , butyloctyl salicylate , sorbitol , VP / eicosene copolymer , stearic acid , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , panthenol , tocopherol , sorbitan isostearate , dimethicone , polyglyceryl - 3 distearate , disodium EDTA , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , styrene / acrylates copolymer , triethanolamine , benzyl alcohol , phenoxyethanol , capryloyl glycine , undecylenoyl glycine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
