[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glycopyrrolate oral solution is indicated to reduce chronic severe drooling in patients aged 3 to 16 years with neurologic conditions associated with problem drooling ( e . g . , cerebral palsy ) .
Glycopyrrolate oral solution is an anticholinergic indicated to reduce chronic severe drooling in patients aged 3 to16 years with neurologic conditions associated with problem drooling ( e . g . , cerebral palsy ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glycopyrrolate oral solution must be measured and administered with an accurate measuring device [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Initiate dosing at 0 . 02 mg / kg orally three times daily and titrate in increments of 0 . 02 mg / kg every 5to7 days based on therapeutic response and adverse reactions .
The maximum recommended dosage is 0 . 1 mg / kg three times daily not to exceed 1 . 5 - 3 mg per dose based upon weight .
For greater detail , see Table 1 .
During the four - week titration period , dosing can be increased with the recommended dose titration schedule while ensuring that the anticholinergic adverse events are tolerable .
Prior to each increase in dose , review the tolerability of the current dose level with the patient ’ s caregiver .
Glycopyrrolate oral solution should be dosed at least one hour before or two hours after meals .
The presence of high fat food reduces the oral bioavailability of glycopyrrolate oral solution if taken shortly after a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 1 : Recommended Dose Titration Schedule ( each dose to be given three times daily ) Weight Dose Level 1 Dose Level 2 Dose Level 3 Dose Level 4 Dose Level 5 Kg lbs ( ~ 0 . 02 mg / kg ) ( ~ 0 . 04 mg / kg ) ( ~ 0 . 06 mg / kg ) ( ~ 0 . 08 mg / kg ) ( ~ 0 . 1 mg / kg ) 13 - 17 27 - 38 0 . 3 mg 1 . 5 mL 0 . 6 mg 3 mL 0 . 9 mg 4 . 5 mL 1 . 2 mg 6 mL 1 . 5 mg 7 . 5 mL 18 - 22 39 - 49 0 . 4 mg 2 mL 0 . 8 mg 4 mL 1 . 2 mg 6 mL 1 . 6 mg 8 mL 2 . 0 mg 10 mL 23 - 27 50 - 60 0 . 5 mg 2 . 5 mL 1 . 0 mg 5 mL 1 . 5 mg 7 . 5 mL 2 . 0 mg 10 mL 2 . 5 mg 12 . 5 mL 28 - 32 61 - 71 0 . 6 mg 3 mL 1 . 2 mg 6 mL 1 . 8 mg 9 mL 2 . 4 mg 12 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 33 - 37 72 - 82 0 . 7 mg 3 . 5 mL 1 . 4 mg 7 mL 2 . 1 mg 10 . 5 mL 2 . 8 mg 14 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 38 - 42 83 - 93 0 . 8 mg 4 mL 1 . 6 mg 8 mL 2 . 4 mg 12 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 43 - 47 94 - 104 0 . 9 mg 4 . 5 mL 1 . 8 mg 9 mL 2 . 7 mg 13 . 5 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL ≥ 48 ≥ 105 1 . 0 mg 5 mL 2 . 0 mg 10 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL 3 . 0 mg 15 mL • Initiate dosing at 0 . 02 mg / kg three times daily and titrate in increments of 0 . 02 mg / kg every 5 to 7 days , based on therapeutic response and adverse reactions .
( 2 ) • Maximum recommended dose is 0 . 1 mg / kg three times daily , not to exceed 1 . 5 - 3 mg per dose based upon weight .
( 2 ) • Administer at least one hour before or two hours after meals .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Glycopyrrolate oral solution is available as a 1 mg / 5 mL clear , cherry - flavored solution for oral administration in 16 ounce bottles .
1 mg / 5 mL , oral solution in 16 ounce bottles .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glycopyrrolate oral solution is contraindicated in : • Patients with medical conditions that preclude anticholinergic therapy ( e . g . , glaucoma , paralytic ileus , unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage , severe ulcerative colitis , toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis , myasthenia gravis ) .
• Patients taking solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride .
The passage of potassium chloride tablets through the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract may be arrested or delayed with coadministration of glycopyrrolate oral solution .
• Medical conditions that preclude anticholinergic therapy .
( 4 ) • Concomitant use of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Constipation or intestinal pseudo - obstruction : May present as abdominal distention , pain , nausea , or vomiting .
Assess patients for constipation , particularly within 4 to 5 days of initial dosing or after a dose increase .
( 5 . 1 ) • Incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction : May present as diarrhea .
If obstruction is suspected , discontinue glycopyrrolate oral solution and evaluate .
( 5 . 2 ) • High ambient temperature : To reduce risk of heat prostration , avoid high temperatures .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Constipation or Intestinal Pseudo - obstruction Constipation is a common dose - limiting adverse reaction which sometimes leads to glycopyrrolate discontinuation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Assess patients for constipation , particularly within 4to5 days of initial dosing or after a dose increase .
Intestinal pseudo - obstruction has been reported and may present as abdominal distention , pain , nausea or vomiting .
5 . 2 Incomplete Mechanical Intestinal Obstruction Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
If incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction is suspected , discontinue treatment with glycopyrrolate oral solution and evaluate for intestinal obstruction .
5 . 3 High Ambient Temperatures In the presence of high ambient temperature , heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur with use of anticholinergic drugs such as glycopyrrolate oral solution .
Advise patients / caregivers to avoid exposure of the patient to hot or very warm environmental temperatures .
5 . 4 Operating Machinery or an Automobile Glycopyrrolate oral solution may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
As appropriate for a given age , warn the patient not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work while taking glycopyrrolate oral solution .
5 . 5 Anticholinergic Drug Effects Use glycopyrrolate oral solution with caution in patients with conditions that are exacerbated by anticholinergic drug effects including : ● Autonomic neuropathy ● Renal disease ● Ulcerative colitis – Large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and for this reason may precipitate or aggravate “ toxic megacolon ” , a serious complication of the disease .
● Hyperthyroidism ● Coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac tachyarrhythmias , tachycardia , and hypertension ● Hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis , since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate this condition 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : ● Constipation or intestinal pseudo - obstruction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] ● Incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The most common adverse reactions reported with glycopyrrolate oral solution are dry mouth , vomiting , constipation , flushing , and nasal congestion .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 30 % ) are dry mouth , vomiting , constipation , flushing , and nasal congestion .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical Drug Safety Department at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to glycopyrrolate oral solution in 151 subjects , including 20 subjects who participated in an 8 - week placebo - controlled study ( Study 1 ) and 137 subjects who participated in a 24 - week open - label study ( six subjects who received glycopyrrolate oral solution in the placebo - controlled study and 131 new subjects ) .
Table 2 presents adverse reactions reported by ≥ 15 % of glycopyrrolate oral solution - treated subjects from the placebo - controlled clinical trial .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 15 % of Glycopyrrolate oral solution - Treated Subjects and at a Greater Frequency than Placebo in Study 1 Glycopyrrolate oral solution ( N = 20 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 18 ) n ( % ) Dry Mouth 8 ( 40 % ) 2 ( 11 % ) Vomiting 8 ( 40 % ) 2 ( 11 % ) Constipation 7 ( 35 % ) 4 ( 22 % ) Flushing 6 ( 30 % ) 3 ( 17 % ) Nasal Congestion 6 ( 30 % ) 2 ( 11 % ) Headache 3 ( 15 % ) 1 ( 6 % ) Sinusitis 3 ( 15 % ) 1 ( 6 % ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 ( 15 % ) 0 Urinary Retention 3 ( 15 % ) 0 The following adverse reactions occurred at a rate of < 2 % of patients receiving glycopyrrolate oral solution in the open - label study .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal distention , abdominal pain , stomach discomfort , chapped lips , flatulence , retching , dry tongue General Disorders : Irritability , pain Infections : Pneumonia , sinusitis , tracheostomy infection , upper respiratory tract infection , urinary tract infection Investigations : Heart rate increase Metabolism and Nutrition : Dehydration Nervous System : Headache , convulsion , dysgeusia , nystagmus Psychiatric : Agitation , restlessness , abnormal behavior , aggression , crying , impulse control disorder , moaning , mood altered Respiratory : Increased viscosity of bronchial secretion , nasal congestion , nasal dryness Skin : Dry skin , pruritus , rash Vascular : Pallor 6 . 2 Postmarketing Expereince The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of other formulations of glycopyrrolate for other indications .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Additional adverse reactions identified during postapproval use of glycopyrrolate tablets include : loss of taste and suppression of lactation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Affected by Reduced GI Transit Time Glycopyrrolate reduces GI transit time , which may result in altered release of certain drugs when formulated in delayed - or controlled - release dosage forms .
• The passage of potassium chloride tablets through the GI tract may be arrested or delayed with coadministration of glycopyrrolate .
Solid dosage forms of potassium chloride are contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Digoxin administered as slow dissolution oral tablets may have increased serum levels and enhanced action when administered with glycopyrrolate .
Monitor patients receiving slow dissolution digoxin for increased action if glycopyrrolate is coadministered regularly .
Consider the use of other oral dosage forms of digoxin ( e . g . , elixir or capsules ) .
Amantadine The anticholinergic effects of glycopyrrolate may be increased with concomitant administration of amantadine .
Consider decreasing the dose of glycopyrrolate during coadministration of amantadine .
Drugs Whose Plasma Levels May be Increased by Glycopyrrolate Coadministration of glycopyrrolate may result in increased levels of certain drugs .
• Atenolol ’ s bioavailability may be increased with coadministration of glycopyrrolate .
A reduction in the atenolol dose may be needed .
• Metformin plasma levels may be elevated with coadministration of glycopyrrolate , increasing metformin ’ s pharmacologic and toxic effects .
Monitor clinical response to metformin with concomitant glycopyrrolate administration ; consider a dose reduction of metformin if warranted .
Drugs Whose Plasma Levels May be Decreased by Glycopyrrolate Coadministration of glycopyrrolate may result in decreased levels of certain drugs .
• Haloperidol ’ s serum level may be decreased when coadministered with glycopyrrolate , resulting in worsening of schizophrenic symptoms , and development of tardive dyskinesia .
Closely monitor patients if coadministration cannot be avoided .
• Levodopa ’ s therapeutic effect may be reduced with glycopyrrolate administration .
Consider increasing the dose of levodopa .
• Digoxin tablets : Use with glycopyrrolate can increase digoxin serum levels .
Monitor patients and consider use of alternative dosage forms of digoxin .
( 7 ) • Amantadine : Effects of glycopyrrolate may be increased with concomitant administration of amantadine .
Consider decreasing the dose of glycoypyrrolate during concomitant use .
( 7 ) • Atenolol or metformin : Glycopyrrolate may increase serum levels of atenolol or metformin .
Consider dose reduction when used with glycopyrrolate .
( 7 ) • Haloperidol or levodopa : Glycopyrrolate may decrease serum levels of haloperidol or levodopa .
Consider a dose increase when used with glycopyrrolate .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric use : The safety and effectiveness of glycopyrrolate has not been established in patients less than 3 years of age .
( 8 . 4 ) • Renal Impairment : Use glycopyrrolate oral solution with caution in patients with renal impairment .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data in pregnant women for glycopyrrolate oral solution to inform decisions concerning any drug - associated risks .
In pregnant rats , daily oral administration of glycopyrrolate during organogenesis at dose exposures 2 . 5 to 113 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) did not result in an increased incidence of gross external or visceral defects [ see Data ] .
When glycopyrrolate was administered intravenously to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis at dose exposures equivalent to up to approximately 7 . 8 times the exposure at the MRHD , no adverse effects on embryo - fetal development were seen .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Animal Data Glycopyrrolate was orally administered to pregnant rats at dosages of 50 , 200 , and 400 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
These dosages resulted in systemic exposures ( estimated AUC0 - inf values ) approximately 2 . 5 , 23 , and 113 times , respectively , the estimated systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD ( 9 mg per day , administered in three divided doses ) .
Glycopyrrolate had no effect on maternal survival , but significantly reduced mean maternal body weight gain over the period of dosing at all dosages evaluated .
Mean fetal weight was significantly reduced in the 200 and 400 mg / kg / day dose groups .
There were two litters with all resorbed fetuses in the 400 mg / kg / day dose group .
There were no effects of treatment on the incidence of gross external or visceral defects .
Minor treatment - related skeletal effects included reduced ossification of various bones in the 200 and 400 mg / kg / day dose groups ; these skeletal effects were likely secondary to maternal toxicity .
Glycopyrrolate was intravenously administered to pregnant rabbits at dosages of 0 . 1 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
These dosages resulted in systemic exposures ( estimated AUC0 - inf values ) approximately 0 . 8 , 4 . 6 , and 7 . 8 times , respectively , the estimated systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD .
Glycopyrrolate did not affect maternal survival under the conditions of this study .
Mean maternal body weight gain and mean food consumption over the period of dosing were lower than the corresponding control value in the 0 . 5 and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day treatment groups .
There were no effects of treatment on fetal parameters , including fetal survival , mean fetal weight , and the incidence of external , visceral , or skeletal defects .
Female rats that were pregnant or nursing were orally dosed with glycopyrrolate daily at dosages of 0 , 50 , 200 , or 400 mg / kg / day , beginning on day 7 of gestation , and continuing until day 20 of lactation .
These dosages resulted in systemic exposures ( estimated AUC0 - inf values ) approximately 2 . 5 , 23 , and 113 times , respectively , the estimated systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD ( 9 mg per day , administered in three divided doses ) .
Mean body weight of pups in all treatment groups was reduced compared to the control group during the period of nursing , but eventually recovered to be comparable to the control group , post - weaning .
No other notable delivery or litter parameters were affected by treatment in any group , including no effects on mean duration of gestation or mean numbers of live pups per litter .
No treatment - related effects on survival or adverse clinical signs were observed in pups .
There were no effects of maternal treatment on behavior , learning , memory , or reproductive function of pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of glycopyrrolate or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for glycopyrrolate oral solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from glycopyrrolate oral solution or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Glycopyrrolate oral solution was evaluated for chronic severe drooling in patients aged 3 to 16 years with neurologic conditions associated with problem drooling .
Glycopyrrolate oral solution has not been studied in subjects under the age of 3 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of glycopyrrolate oral solution did not include subjects aged 65 and over .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Because glycopyrrolate is largely renally eliminated , glycopyrrolate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Because glycopyrrolate is a quaternary amine which does not easily cross the blood - brain barrier , symptoms of glycopyrrolate overdosage are generally more peripheral in nature rather than central compared to other anticholinergic agents .
In case of accidental overdose , therapy may include : • Maintain an open airway , providing ventilation as necessary .
• Managing any acute conditions such as hyperthermia , coma and or seizures as applicable , and managing any jerky myoclonic movements or choreoathetosis which may lead to rhabdomyolysis in some cases of anticholinergic overdosage .
• Administering a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase such as neostigmine to help alleviate peripheral anticholinergic effects such as anticholinergic induced ileus .
• Administering activated charcoal orally as appropriate .
11 DESCRIPTION Glycopyrrolate oral solution is an anticholinergic drug available as an oral solution containing 1 mg glycopyrrolate per 5 mL .
The chemical name for glycopyrrolate is pyrrolidinium , 3 - [ ( cyclopentylhydroxyphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - , bromide .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula for glycopyrrolate oral solution is C19H28BrNO3 and the molecular weight is 398 . 33 .
The inactive ingredients in glycopyrrolate oral solution are : citric acid monohydrate , glycerin , artificial cherry flavor , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , saccharin sodium , sodium citrate dihydrate , sorbitol solution , and purified water .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Glycopyrrolate is a competitive inhibitor of acetylcholine receptors that are located on certain peripheral tissues , including salivary glands .
Glycopyrrolate indirectly reduces the rate of salivation by preventing the stimulation of these receptors .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Glycopyrrolate inhibits the action of acetylcholine on salivary glands thereby reducing the extent of salivation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a parallel study of children ( n = 6 per group ) aged 7 to 14 years undergoing intraocular surgery , subjects receivedeither intravenous ( IV ) or oral glycopyrrolate as a premedication .
The mean absolute bioavailability of oral glycopyrrolate tablets was low ( approximately 3 % ) and highly variable among subjects ( range 1 . 3 to 13 . 3 % ) .
A similar pattern of low and variable relative bioavailability is seen in adults .
Analysis of population pharmacokinetic data from normal adults and children with cerebral palsy associated chronic moderate to severe drooling failed to demonstrate linear pharmacokinetics across the dose range .
In the same analysis , population estimates of the apparent oral clearance ( scaled by weight in children and adults ) ranged from 5 . 28 - 38 . 95 L / hr / kg for healthy adults and 8 . 07 - 25 . 65 L / hr / kg for patients with cerebral palsy , a reflection of the low and highly variable oral bioavailability of glycopyrrolate .
Absorption of glycopyrrolate oral solution ( fasting ) was compared to that of a marketed glycopyrrolate oral tablet .
The Cmax after oral solution administration was 23 % lower compared to tablet administration and the AUC0 - inf was 28 % lower after oral solution administration .
Mean Cmax after oral solution administration in the fasting state was 0 . 318 ng / mL , and mean AUC0 - 24 was 1 . 74 ng . hr / mL .
Mean time to maximum plasma concentration for glycopyrrolate was 3 . 1 hours , and mean plasma half - life was 3 . 0 hours .
In healthy adults , a high fat meal was shown to significantly affect the absorption of glycopyrrolate oral solution ( 10 mL , 1 mg / 5 mL ) .
The mean Cmax under fed high fat meal conditions was approximately 74 % lower than the Cmax observed under fasting conditions .
Similarly , mean AUC0 - T was reduced by about 78 % by the high fat meal compared with the fasting AUC0 - T .
A high fat meal markedly reduces the oral bioavailability of glycopyrrolate oral solution .
Therefore , glycopyrrolate oral solution should be dosed at least one hour before or two hours after meals .
Pharmacokinetic results ( mean ± SD ) are described in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( mean ± SD ) for Glycopyrrolate oral solution , Fasting and Fed , in Healthy Adults Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( hrs ) AUC0 - T ( ng · hr / mL ) AUC0 - Inf ( ng · hr / mL ) T1 / 2 ( hrs ) Fasting ( n = 37 ) 0 . 318 ± 0 . 190 3 . 10 ± 1 . 08 1 . 74 ± 1 . 07 1 . 81 ± 1 . 09 3 . 0 ± 1 . 2 Fed ( n = 36 ) 0 . 084 ± 0 . 081 2 . 60 ± 1 . 12 0 . 38 ± 0 . 14 0 . 46 ± 0 . 13 * 3 . 2 ± 1 . 1 * * n = 35 Distribution After IV administration , glycopyrrolate has a mean volume of distribution in children aged 1 to 14 years of approximately 1 . 3 to 1 . 8 L / kg , with a range from 0 . 7 to 3 . 9 L / kg .
In adults aged 60 to 75 years , the volume of distribution was lower ( 0 . 42 L / kg + / - 0 . 22 ) .
Metabolism In adult patients who underwent surgery for cholelithiasis and were given a single IV dose of tritiated glycopyrrolate , approximately 85 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and < 5 % was present in T - tube drainage of bile .
In both urine and bile , > 80 % of the radioactivity corresponded to unchanged drug .
These data suggest a small proportion of IV glycopyrrolate is excreted as one or more metabolites .
Elimination Approximately 65 to 80 % of an IV glycopyrrolate dose was eliminated unchanged in urine in adults .
In two studies , after IV administration to pediatric patients ages 1 to 14 years , mean clearance values ranged from 1 . 01 - 1 . 41 L / kg / hr ( range 0 . 32 – 2 . 22 L / kg / hr ) .
In adults , IV clearance values were 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 L / kg / hr .
Pediatrics The estimated apparent clearance of glycopyrrolate from a population pharmacokinetic analysis ( scaled by weight in children and adults ) of oral and IV data was found to be 13 . 2 L / hr / kg or 92 . 7 L / hr for a typical 70 kg subject .
In the same population based analysis , gender was not identified as having an effect on either glycopyrrolate clearance or systemic exposure .
Gender Population pharmacokinetic evaluation of adults and children administered IV or oral glycopyrrolate identified no effect of gender on glycopyrrolate clearance or systemic exposure .
Race The pharmacokinetics of glycopyrrolate by race has not been characterized .
Elderly Glycopyrrolate pharmacokinetics have not been characterized in the elderly .
Renal Impairment In one study , glycopyrrolate 4 mcg / kg was administered intravenously in uremic patients undergoing renal transplantation surgery .
Mean AUC ( 10 . 6 mcg · h / L ) , mean plasma clearance ( 0 . 43 L / hr / kg ) and mean 3 - hour urinary excretion ( 0 . 7 % ) for glycopyrrolate were significantly different than those of control patients ( 3 . 73 μg · h / L , 1 . 14 L / hr / kg , and 50 % , respectively ) .
These results suggest that elimination of glycopyrrolate is severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Hepatic Impairment Glycopyrrolate is largely renally eliminated .
The pharmacokinetics of glycopyrrolate has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility When glycopyrrolate was administered via oral gavage to mice for up to 24 months at dosages of 2 . 5 , 7 , and 20 mg / kg / day in both genders , resulting in systemic exposures ( estimated AUC0 - inf values ) approximately 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 , and 0 . 8 times , respectively , the estimated systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD ( 9 mg per day , administered in three divided doses ) , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
When glycopyrrolate was administered via oral gavage to rats for up to 24 months at dosages of 5 , 15 , and 40 mg / kg / day in both genders , resulting in systemic exposures approximately 0 . 2 , 0 . 8 , and 2 times , respectively , the estimated systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
Glycopyrrolate did not elicit any genotoxic effects in the Ames mutagenicity assay , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , or the micronucleus assay .
Glycopyrrolate was assessed for effects on fertility or general reproductive function in rats .
Rats of both genders received glycopyrrolate at dosages up to 100 mg / kg / day via oral gavage , resulting in systemic exposures ( estimated AUC0 - inf values ) in males and females up to approximately 11 and 15 times , respectively , the estimated systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD .
No treatment - related effects on fertility or reproductive parameterswere observed in either gender in this study .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Glycopyrrolate oral solution was evaluated in a multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel , eight - week study for the control of pathologic drooling in children ( Study 1 ) .
The study enrolled 38 subjects aged 3 to 23 years ; thirty - six subjects were aged 3 to16 years and two patients were greater than 16 years .
The subjects were male or female , weighed at least 13 kg ( 27 lbs ) , and had cerebral palsy , mental retardation , or another neurologic condition associated with problem drooling defined as drooling in the absence of treatment so that clothing became damp on most days ( approximately five to seven days per week ) .
Subjects were randomized in a 1 : 1 fashion to receive glycopyrrolate oral solution or placebo .
Doses of study medication were titrated over a 4 - week period to optimal response beginning at 0 . 02 mg / kg three times a day increasing doses in increments of approximately 0 . 02 mg / kg three times per day every 5to7 days , not to exceed the lesser of approximately 0 . 1 mg / kg three times per day or 3 mg three times per day .
Subjects were evaluated on the 9 - point modified Teacher ’ s Drooling Scale ( mTDS ) , which is presented below .
The mTDS evaluations were recorded by parents / caregivers 3 times daily approximately two hours post - dose on evaluation days during pre - treatment baseline and at Weeks 2 , 4 , 6 and 8 of therapy .
Modified Teacher ’ s Drooling Scale 1 = Dry : never drools 2 = Mild : only the lips are wet ; occasionally 3 = Mild : only the lips are wet ; frequently 4 = Moderate : wet on the lips and chin ; occasionally 5 = Moderate : wet on the lips and chin ; frequently 6 = Severe : drools to the extent that clothing becomes damp ; occasionally 7 = Severe : drools to the extent that clothing becomes damp ; frequently 8 = Profuse : clothing , hands , tray , and objects become wet ; occasionally 9 = Profuse : clothing , hands , tray , and objects become wet ; frequently Responders were defined as subjects with at least a 3 - point reduction in mean daily mTDS scores from baseline to Week 8 .
Table 4 presents the proportion of responders at Week 8 and Figure 1 presents the mean mTDS values from baseline through Week 8 .
Table 4 : Percentage of Responders at Week 8 Glycopyrrolate oral solution Group Placebo Group ( N = 20 ) ( N = 18 ) 15 / 20 ( 75 % ) 2 / 18 ( 11 % ) Figure 1 .
Mean ( ± 2 Standard Errors ) mTDS Scores [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED NDC 63629 - 9592 - 1 ; 1 mg / 5 mL clear , cherry - flavored solution ; 16 oz .
bottle .
Store at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) • Advise patients / caregivers to measure glycopyrrolate oral solution with an accurate measuring device .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device .
Patients / caregivers should use a dosing cup available in pharmacies to accurately measure the correct milliliter dose .
An oral syringe , also available in pharmacies , should be used to dispense glycopyrrolate oral solution into the child ’ s mouth from the cup .
A pharmacist can recommend an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
• Administering glycopyrrolate oral solution with a high fat meal substantially reduces the amount of glycopyrrolate absorbed .
Administer glycopyrrolate oral solution at least one hour before or two hours after meals .
• Glycopyrrolate oral solution is started at a low dose and gradually titrated over a period of weeks based on therapeutic response and adverse reactions .
Patients / caregivers should not increase the dose without the physician ’ s permission .
• Common adverse reactions from glycopyrrolate oral solution include overly dry mouth , constipation , vomiting , flushing of the skin or face , and urinary retention .
Side effects can sometimes be difficult to detect in some patients with neurologic problems who cannot adequately communicate how they feel .
If side effects become troublesome after increasing a dose , decrease the dose to the prior one and contact your physician .
• Constipation is the most common side effect of glycopyrrolate , and if constipation occurs , stop administering glycopyrrolate to the patient and call their healthcare practitioner .
• Inability of the patient to urinate , dry diapers or undergarments , irritability or crying may be signs of urinary retention , and if urinary retention occurs , patients / caregivers should stop administering glycopyrrolate and call their healthcare practitioner .
• If the patient develops a skin rash , hives or an allergic reaction , parents / caregivers should stop administering glycopyrrolate and call their healthcare practitioner as this could be a sign of hypersensitivity to this product .
• Drugs like glycopyrrolate can reduce sweating , and if the patient is in a hot environment and flushing of the skin occurs this may be due to overheating .
Avoid exposure of the patient to hot or very warm environmental temperatures to avoid overheating and the possibility of heat exhaustion or heat stroke .
Manufactured by : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 PATIENT and CAREGIVER INFORMATION Glycopyrrolate oral solution Please read the Patient and Caregiver Information that comes with glycopyrrolate oral solution before you start giving it to your child , and each time you get a refill .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your child ’ s medical condition or treatment .
What is Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
Glycopyrrolate oral solution is a prescription medicine used in children with medical conditions that cause too much ( abnormal ) drooling .
Who should not take Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
Do not give glycopyrrolate oral solution to anyone who : ● has problems urinating ● has a bowel problem called paralytic ileus ● lacks normal bowel tone or tension ● has severe ulcerative colitis or certain other serious bowel problems with severe ulcerative colitis ● has myasthenia gravis What should I tell my doctor before giving Glycopyrrolate oral solution to my child ?
Tell your doctor if your child : ● has any allergies ● has any stomach or bowel problems , including ulcerative colitis ● has any problems with constipation ● has thyroid problems ● has high blood pressure ● has heart problems or abnormal heart beats ● has a hiatal hernia with gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) ● has any eye problems ● has any problems urinating ● has any other medical conditions ● is pregnant or plans to become pregnant .
It is not known if glycopyrrolate oral solution can harm an unborn baby .
● is breastfeeding or plans to breastfeed .
It is not known if glycopyrrolate oral solution passes into breast milk and if it can harm the baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines that your child takes , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some medicine may affect the way glycopyrrolate oral solution works , and glycopyrrolate oral solution may affect how some other medicines work .
How should I give Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
● Give glycopyrrolate oral solution exactly as prescribed by your child ’ s doctor .
● Give glycopyrrolate oral solution 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals .
● Your doctor will tell you how much ( milliliters or mLs ) of glycopyrrolate oral solution to give your child .
● Do not change the dose of glycopyrrolate oral solution unless your doctor tells you to .
● You must measure the dose of glycopyrrolate oral solution before giving it to your child .
Use a specially marked dose measuring cup ( available at most pharmacies ) to measure the right dose of glycopyrrolate oral solution .
● To help make sure that your child swallows the dose , you should use an oral syringe to give the child each dose of glycopyrrolate oral solution , after you measure the dose needed with a dose measuring cup .
Oral syringes are also available at most pharmacies .
● If you have questions about how to measure the dose or how to use an oral syringe , ask your pharmacist or doctor .
● The dose of glycopyrrolate oral solution that is needed to control drooling may be different for each child .
Glycopyrrolate oral solution is usually started at a low dose , and slowly increased as directed by your doctor .
This slow increase in dose continues until the best dose for your child is reached , to control drooling .
● During this time it is important to stay in close contact with your child ’ s doctor , and tell the doctor about any side effects that your child has .
See “ What are the possible side effects of glycopyrrolate oral solution ? ”
What should I avoid while taking Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
● Glycopyrrolate oral solution may cause sleepiness or blurred vision .
Do not drive a car , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities while taking glycopyrrolate oral solution .
● Avoid overheating .
See “ What are the possible side effects of glycopyrrolate oral solution ? ”
What are the possible side effects of Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
Glycopyrrolate oral solution can cause serious side effects including : ● Constipation .
Constipation is common with glycopyrrolate oral solution .
Tell your doctor if your child strains with bowel movements , goes longer between bowel movements , cannot have a bowel movement , or their stomach is firm and large .
The dose of glycopyrrolate oral solution may need to be decreased or stopped .
● Diarrhea and intestinal blockage .
Diarrhea can be an early symptom of a blockage in the intestine .
This is especially true if your child has a colostomy or ileostomy .
Tell your doctor if your child has any diarrhea while taking glycopyrrolate oral solution .
• Problems with control of body temperature ( overheating or heat stroke ) .
Glycopyrrolate oral solution can cause your child to sweat less .
Your child can become overheated , and develop heat stroke if they are in an area that is very hot .
Avoid overheating .
Call your doctor right away if your child becomes sick and has any of these symptoms of heatstroke : ● hot , red skin ● decreased alertness or passing out ( unconsciousness ) ● fast , weak pulse ● fast , shallow breathing ● increased body temperature ( fever ) The most common side effects of glycopyrrolate oral solution include : ● dry mouth ● vomiting ● flushing of the face or skin ● nasal congestion ● headache ● swollen sinuses ( sinusitis ) ● upper respiratory tract infection ● problems urinating , difficulty starting urination Tell your doctor if your child has any side effect that concerns you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of glycopyrrolate oral solution .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
Store glycopyrrolate oral solution between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) Keep Glycopyrrolate oral solution out of the reach of children .
General information about Glycopyrrolate oral solution : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use glycopyrrolate oral solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give glycopyrrolate oral solution to other people even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about glycopyrrolate oral solution .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about glycopyrrolate oral solution that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to : www . parpharm . com or call 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 .
What are the ingredients in Glycopyrrolate oral solution ?
Active Ingredient : glycopyrrolate .
Inactive Ingredients : citric acid monohydrate , glycerin , artificial cherry flavor , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , saccharin sodium , sodium citrate dihydrate , sorbitol solution , and purified water .
Issued : 02 / 2021 Manufactured by : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 Glycopyrrolate 1 mg / 5 ml Solution # 473 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
