Dear Medical Professional , Per your order , we have compounded DMSA as a sterile freeze - dried mixture .
The characteristics of this preparation are : DESCRIPTION AnazaoHealth supplies DMSA as a compounded kit for preparing Tc 99 m DMSA .
Each Reaction vial contains 1 . 1 mg meso - 2 , 3 - dimercaptosuccinic acid , 0 . 2 mg tin as stannous chloride , and 0 . 7 mg ascorbic acid .
The vial is back filled with inert gas and may contain a partial vacuum .
Each Acetate buffer vial contains 1 . 2 ml Sodium Acetate . 25 N . pH 5 . 2 to 5 . 6 .
LDO normal saline included for dilution of prepared kit , if required CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Technetium Tc 99 m DMSA , when administered intravenously apparently binds to plasma proteins in the blood and collects in the renal cortex .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Technetium Tc 99 m DMSA by intravenous administration is indicated as a static kidney imaging agent .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known contraindications .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preparation of Technetium Tc 99 m DMSA is done by the following aseptic procedure : • Waterproof gloves should be worn during the preparation • Snap off the plastic lid and place room temperature reaction vial in an appropriate lead shield .
• Swab the rubber closure of the vial with a germicide • Inject as close to 1 cc as possible of sterile additive free sodium pertechnetate Tc 99 m injection containing up to 1480 MBq ( 40 mCi ) into the vial freshly eluded within 2 hours from a technetium generator .
Be sure to maintain inert atmosphere in vial by introducing as little air as possible during reconstitution .
NOTE : If sodium pertechnetate Tc 99 m injection must be diluted , use only Low Dissolved Oxygen ( LDO ) • Secure the lead shield cover .
Swirl the vial gently to mix contents and let stand for 15 minutes .
Add 1 ml Acetate buffer at this time .
( This will interfere with the tagging process if introduced any earlier ) .
Buffer must be added ( May be added up to 1 hour after Tc 99 m ) • Examine vial contents ; if the solution is not clear and free of particulate matter and discoloration on visual inspection , it should not be used • Measure the radioactivity by a suitable calibration system and record prior to patient administration • Buffered material should be used within 2 hours • Appropriate quality control is recommended Tagging Tips • If you need only a one or two mCi dose for your patient , use about 10 mCi of Tc 99 m for your kit .
Do not stretch your kit to 40 mCi if you do not need to .
We have tested the kits to 40 mCi with a Friday generator eluted on Monday but recommend using only what you need • Keep your volumes low .
Take your Tc 99 m and dilute to about 1 cc with the Low Dissolved Oxygen saline and inject into the DMSA kit • Let the kit stand for about 15 minutes with just the Tc 99 m and DMSA ( NO BUFFER ) • After 15 minutes , then add the buffer .
This is only for patient comfort and will interfere with the tagging process if introduced any earlier • After buffering you can add additional “ Low Dissolved Oxygen ” saline to dilute the kit • You should inject the dose within 2 hours after making the kit for best results Storage and Handling Store the kit at 2 ° - 8 ° C ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ) and protect from light PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
