Drug Facts Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 15 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent surnburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( See Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the skin .
Warning For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If a product is swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control right away .
Directions Apply liberally to exposed areas 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply at least every two hours , after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , or immediately after towel drying .
• Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other protection measures including • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , C15 - 19 Alkane , Isocetyl Stearoyl Stearate , Undecane , Tribehenin , Silica , Tocopheryl Acetate , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Capryloyl Glycerin / Sebacic Acid Copolymer , Glyceryl Stearate , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Tridecane , Leuconostoc / Radish Root Ferment Filtrate , Lactobacillus , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf , Hyaluronic Acid , Acacia Senegal Gum , Xanthan Gum , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Fruit Extract May Contain : Indigofera Tinctoria Leaf Extract , Caesalpinia Sappan Bark Extract , Synthetic Fluorphlogopite , Titanium Dioxide , Tin Oxide Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Contact for Questions : ( 877 ) 849 - 1983 Distributed by SQWEEN , LLC : New York , NY 10065 MADE IN THE USA with US & imported materials Sqween 100 % Mineral Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Water Resistant [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
