Active ingredient ( in each pill ) Caffeine Anhydrous , 100 mg Purpose Diuretic Uses For relief of symptoms associated with the premenstrual and menstrual periods including : • temporary water retention • bloat • swelling • full feeling • fatigue Warnings Ask a doctor before use if • taking any other medications • under 18 years of age .
Do not give to children under 12 years of age .
When using this product , limit the use of caffeine - containing medications , foods or beverages because too much caffeine may cause : • nervousness • irritability • sleeplessness • occasional rapid heart beat .
The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as one to two cups of coffee .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last for more than ten consecutive days .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • Read all package directions and warnings before use .
• Use only as directed .
• Adults : One ( 1 ) pill ( 100 mg ) or two ( 2 ) pills ( 200 mg maximum strength ) every 3 to 4 hours while symptoms persist , not to exceed 8 pills in a 24 hour period .
• Start taking 5 or 6 days before onset of period and continue use until desired relief is obtained or end of period .
• Drink 6 to 8 glasses of water daily .
• Recommended for use by normally healthy adults only .
Other information • Calcium content : 30 mg / pill • ** Contents sealed : Each DIUREX light green colored , round shaped pill bears the identifying mark " ALVA " and is sealed in a clear plastic blister with a foil backing .
Do not use if seal appears broken or if product contents do not match product description .
• You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Inactive ingredients Acacia , calcium carbonate , croscarmellose sodium , D & C Yellow No . 10 Lake , ethyl vanillin , FD & C Blue No . 1 Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium silicate , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate , stearic acid and titanium dioxide .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 792 - 2582 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
