Active ingredient Menthol 16 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor muscle and joint pain associated with • arthritis • simple backache • muscle strains • sprains • bruises .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product : use only as directed do not bandage tightly or use with a heating pad avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin A temporary burning sensation may occur after use but normally disappears in several days .
If severe burning sensation occurs , discontinue use immediately If swelling or blistering of the skin occurs , stop use and seek medical attention Do not expose treated area to heat or direct sunlight .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Flammable • Keep away from fire or flame Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Adults and children over 12 yrs of age : apply to the affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily • IF MEDICINE COMES IN CONTACT WITH HANDS , WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER Children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Capsaicin , Glycerin , Isopropyl Myristate , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , SD Alcohol 40 ( 30 % ) , Triethanolamine Questions & comments ?
call toll free 1 - 888 - 235 - 2466 ( Mon - Fri 9 AM - 5 PM EST ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Icy Hot ® .
actual size package containes one bottle DISTRIBUTED BY : Bionpharma Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 L0000588 R03 / 22 Carton * compare to the active ingredient in Icy Hot ® a + health ™ maximum strength cool & heat pain relieving liquid menthol 16 % topical analgesic rool - on applicator • no mess • dries rapidly • stain - free 2 . 5 fl oz ( 74 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
