Active Ingredient Clotrimazole 1 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses For the cure of most • ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) For relief of • itching • scaling • cracking • burning • redness • soreness • irritation • discomforts which may accompany these conditions .
Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use on children under 2 years of age .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation occurs • There is no improvement within 4 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • Read all package directions and warnings before use .
• Use only as directed .
• Clean the affected area with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly .
• Apply a thin layer of Fungicure over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor .
• This product is not effective on scalp or nails .
• Avoid applying to severely cracked or irritated areas .
• For athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
• For athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between toes ; wear well fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• Intended for use by normally healthy adults only .
• Persons under 18 years of age or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as directed by a doctor .
• Supervise children in the use of this product .
Other information • FUNGICURE may be applied to exposed nail - beds , cuticles , around nail edges and under nail tips where reachable with its precision QuickBrush applicator .
This product is not intended to , nor will it , penetrate hard nail surfaces .
• While not all finger and toe fungal infections are curable with OTC topical medications , if you see improvement within 4 weeks of use , you may continue to use Fungicure until satisfactory results are obtained .
• You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Inactive ingredients Hydroxypropylcellulose and isopropyl alcohol .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 792 - 2582 Fungicure Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Insert Maximum Strength FUNGICURE Manicure & Pedicure Anti - Fungal Treatment Professional Formula Liquid Gel • Kills ugly fungus for healthy looking fingers & toes • Odor free & instant dry • Liquid Gel locks onto site of infection The Manicure & Pedicure Fungi Specialist Maintaining the appearance of your manicure and pedicure requires more than cosmetics .
Many manicure procedures can enhance the risk of fungal infection , and certain types of artificial nails can trap moisture and fungi and create a perfect environment for fungus to grow and spread .
Cutting cuticles can also create opportunities for fungal infections .
When you promptly treat fungal infections on cuticles and nearby skin surfaces , you reduce the risk of the infections spreading .
Fungicure Manicure & Pedicure Liquid Gel is a maximum strength anti - fungal , specifically formulated for those with professionally or home - manicured , pedicured or artificial nails .
Fungicure ' s precision QuickBrush applicator allows for easy application on hard to reach infections , including under nail tips .
WHAT IS FUNGUS INFECTION OF THE FINGER AND TOES ?
Common topical fungus infections of the finger and toes are caused by a variety of fungi ; actual living organisms ( members of the yeast and mold family ) which thrive in dark , moist conditions .
Using small breaches in the skin ' s surface , these organisms can cause infection by contact with infected surfaces , animals or people .
Once infection starts , spreading may occur .
For example , infected fingers and toes may infect other fingers and toes .
Although such infections often develop slowly , they may be difficult to eliminate if not treated promptly with an effective anti - fungal medicine like Fungicure .
HOW DO YOU KNOW IF YOU HAVE A TOPICAL FUNGUS INFECTION ?
Some topical fungal infections may present themselves on the skin surface as ring - like formations with clear centers ; this is commonly called ringworm .
Athlete ' s foot fungus , when in the finger and toe areas , is often characterized by scaling of skin , burning , cracking , itching , and related discomforts .
When nails become infected , they may appear to become opaque ( cloudy white ) , thickened , brittle , easily broken , and in some cases , discolored ( greenish / brown ) .
UNDERSTANDING AND TREATING A NAIL AREA INFECTION : Fungal infections of the nail areas are often caused by the same fungi that lead to athlete ' s foot and ringworm infections elsewhere on the body .
These fungi can infect the entire area around the nails including the cuticles , the nail beds , and even the nails themselves .
When infected finger / toe nails are intact , over - the - counter topical anti - fungal treatments may not be able to penetrate the nail and kill the fungus ; this is why all OTC topical treatments must indicate they are not effective on the nails .
However , in instances of advanced infection , the nails often are not intact ; they may be missing , cracked open , or lifted away , exposing the infected nail bed .
In these instances FUNGICURE Manicure & Pedicure Liquid Gel , with its powerful anti - fungal formula , can reach and kill nail bed fungus by direct application or related capillary action .
Fungicure cures the infection , allowing the natural regrowth of healthy looking tissue .
NOTE : Fungal infections which are isolated beneath an intact nail or embedded within the nail itself may require consultation from a doctor for proper treatment .
HOW FUNGICURE LIQUID GEL WORKS : MAXIMUM STRENGTH FUNGICURE Manicure & Pedicure Liquid Gel contains Clotrimazole , a widely recognized anti - fungal ingredient that has been proven to be effective against 6 types of fungi such as E . floccosum , T . mentagrophytes , M . canis , M . gypseum , T . tonsurans and T . rubrum .
When applied as directed , FUNGICURE Manicure & Pedicure Liquid Gel acts promptly to target , destroy , and prevent the spread of infection by inhibiting the growth and reproduction of fungal cells .
PROMPT ACTION AND PROPER TREATMENT : Early treatment of fungal infections is important .
If you suspect that you may have a fungal infection , consult your doctor promptly for advice and proper diagnosis .
You may wish to show him / her FUNGICURE Manicure & Pedicure Liquid Gel and discuss its use .
For best results , once treatment is started with FUNGICURE Manicure & Pedicure Liquid Gel , it is important to carefully follow the treatment instructions on the package until satisfactory results are achieved or advised further by a doctor .
NOTE : Noticeable improvement may be expected within 4 weeks in the case of most ringworm ( tinea corporis ) and athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) .
Consult your doctor for advice if noticeable improvement is not evident by this time or if condition persists or worsens .
Active Ingredient : Clotrimazole 1 % w / w Uses : For the cure of most : • ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) .
For relief of : • itching • scaling • cracking • burning • redness • soreness • irritation • discomforts which may accompany these conditions .
Warnings : For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use on children under 2 years of age .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions : • Read all package directions and warnings before use • Use only as directed • Clean the affected area with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly .
• Apply a thin layer of FUNGICURE over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor .
• This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
• Avoid applying to severely cracked or irritated areas .
• For ringworm and athlete ' s foot , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer consult a doctor .
• For athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between toes ; wear well fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• Intended for use by normally healthy adults only .
• Persons under 18 years of age or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as directed by a doctor .
• Supervise children in the use of this product .
Other Information : • Fungicure may be applied to exposed nail - beds , cuticles , around nail edges and under nail tips where reachable with its precision QuickBrush applicator brush .
This product is not intended to , nor will it , penetrate hard nail surfaces .
• While not all finger and toe area fungal infections are curable with OTC topical medications , if you see improvement within 4 weeks of use , you may continue to use FUNGICURE until satisfactory results are obtained .
• You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Inactive ingredients : Hydroxypropylcellulose and Isopropyl alcohol .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 792 - 2582 www . Fungicure . com The active ingredient in Fungicure has been recognized to be safe and effective by an FDA Expert Advisory Panel , when used as directed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
