200 mEq / 100 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) and 100 mEq / 50 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) ( 2 mEq K + and 2 mEq CH3COO − / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package - Not for Direct Infusion .
CONCENTRATED SOLUTION - FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION AND THOROUGH MIXING .
Plastic COC Fliptop Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Potassium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of potassium acetate in water for injection .
The solution is administered after dilution by the intravenous route as an electrolyte replenisher .
It must not be administered undiluted .
Each mL contains 196 mg of potassium acetate which provides 2 mEq each of potassium ( K + ) and acetate ( CH3COO − ) .
The solution may contain glacial acetic acid for pH adjustment .
The pH is 6 . 2 ( range : 5 . 5 to 8 . 0 ) .
The osmolar concentration is 4 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
; specific gravity is 1 . 089 .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is a sterile dosage which contains multiple single doses for use only in a pharmacy bulk admixture program .
The solution is intended as an alternative to potassium chloride to provide potassium ion ( K + ) for addition to large volume infusion fluids for intravenous use .
Potassium Acetate , USP is chemically designated CH3COOK , and is comprised of colorless crystals or a white crystalline powder that is very soluble in water .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with manual , gravity flow operations and automated compounding devices for preparing sterile parenteral nutrient admixtures .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent , or added buffer .
Multiple single doses may be dispensed during continual aliquoting operations .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY As the principal cation of the intracellular fluid , potassium plays an important role in fluid and electrolyte balance .
The normal potassium concentration in the intracellular fluid compartment is about 160 mEq / liter .
The normal serum potassium range is 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter .
The kidney normally regulates potassium balance but does not conserve potassium as well or as promptly as it conserves sodium .
The daily turnover of potassium in the normal adult averages 50 to 150 mEq ( milliequivalents ) and represents 1 . 5 to 5 % of the total potassium content of the body .
Acetate ( CH3COO − ) , a source of hydrogen ion acceptors , is an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily , even in the presence of severe liver disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is indicated as a source of potassium , for the addition to large volume intravenous fluids , to prevent or correct hypokalemia in patients with restricted or no oral intake .
It is also useful as an additive for preparing specific intravenous fluid formulas when the needs of the patient cannot be met by standard electrolyte or nutrient solutions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium administration is contraindicated in patients with severe renal insufficiency or adrenal insufficiency and in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered .
WARNINGS Potassium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) must be diluted before use .
To avoid potassium intoxication , infuse potassium - containing solutions slowly .
Potassium replacement therapy should be monitored whenever possible by continuous or serial electrocardiography ( ECG ) .
Serum potassium levels are not necessarily dependable indicators of tissue potassium levels .
Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of this ion , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Potassium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by ECG monitoring and secondarily by the serum potassium level .
High plasma concentrations of potassium may cause death by cardiac depression , arrhythmias or arrest .
Use with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Solutions containing acetate ion should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium acetate .
It is also not known whether potassium acetate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium acetate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of potassium acetate have been established in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Potassium ions are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , flaccid paralysis , listlessness , mental confusion , weakness and heaviness of the legs , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves , spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , discontinue infusion containing potassium acetate immediately and institute corrective therapy as indicated to reduce elevated serum potassium levels and restore acid - base balance if necessary .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Potassium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) in the Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with manual , gravity flow operations and automated compounding devices for preparing sterile nutrient admixtures .
Potassium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is administered intravenously only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the individual needs of the patient .
ECG and serum potassium should be monitored as a guide to dosage .
Using aseptic technique , all or part of the contents of one or more vials may be added to other intravenous fluids to provide any desired number of milliequivalents ( mEq ) of potassium ( K + ) with an equal number of milliequivalents of acetate ( CH3COO − ) .
Maximum infusion rate : The infusion rate should not exceed 1 mEq / kg / hr .
Normal daily requirements : Newborn : 2 - 6 mEq / kg / 24 hr .
Children : 2 - 3 mEq / kg / 24 hr .
Adult : 40 - 80 mEq / 24 hr .
Intraosseous infusion can be an alternate route for drug administration when intravenous access is not readily available .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Directions for Dispensing From Pharmacy Bulk Package The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the Pharmacy Admixtures Service only .
For hanger application , peel off the paper liner from both ends of the tape hanger to expose 3 / 4 inch long adhesive portions .
Adhere each end to the label on the bottle .
The vials should be suspended as a unit in the laminar flow hood .
A single entry through the vial closure should be made with a sterile dispensing set or transfer device .
Transfer individual doses to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions .
Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage and multiple entries will increase the potential of microbial and particulate contamination .
The above process should be carried out under a laminar flow hood using aseptic technique .
Discard any unused portion within 4 hours after initial closure entry .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Acetate Injection , USP is a Pharmacy Bulk Package which provides multiple single doses for continuous admixture compounding procedures is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration Each NDC 51754 - 2004 - 1 1 per Carton 200 mEq / 100 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) NDC 51754 - 2004 - 1 Plastic COC Fliptop Vial NDC 51754 - 2005 - 1 1 per Carton 100 mEq / 50 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) NDC 51754 - 2005 - 1 Plastic COC Fliptop Vial Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured and Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC Lenoir , NC 28645 Revised : December 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 2005 - 1 Potassium Acetate Injection , USP 100 mEq / 50 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package - Not for direct infusion .
Must be diluted .
For intravenous use * .
50 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51754 - 2005 - 1 Rx Only Potassium Acetate Injection , USP 100 mEq / 50 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package - Not for direct infusion .
Must be diluted .
For intravenous use * .
50 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 2004 - 1 Potassium Acetate Injection , USP 200 mEq / 100 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package - Not for direct infusion .
Must be diluted .
For intravenous use * .
100 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 2004 - 1 Potassium Acetate Injection , USP 200 mEq / 100 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package - Not for direct infusion .
Must be diluted .
For intravenous use * .
100 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ]
