water - miscible vitamin A Palmitate 50 , 000 USP Units ( 15 mg retinol / mL ) Rx only THIS IS A STERILE PRODUCT FOR INTRAMUSCULAR INJECTION DESCRIPTION AQUASOL ATMParenteral ( water - miscible vitamin A Palmitate ) provides 50 , 000 USP Units of vitamin A per mL as retinol ( C20H30O ) in the form of vitamin A palmitate , a light yellow to amber oil .
Contains 0 . 5 % chlorobutanol as preservative ; 12 % polysorbate 80 , 0 . 1 % citric acid , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . The structural formula of retinol is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ordinarily oil - soluble , the vitamin A in this product has been water solubilized by special processing * and is available in a water solution for intramuscular injection .
One USP Unit is equivalent to one international unit ( IU ) and to 0 . 3 mcg of retinol or 0 . 6 mcg of betacarotene .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Beta - carotene , retinol , and retinal have effective and reliable vitamin A activity .
Retinal and retinol are in chemical equilibrium in the body and have equivalent antixerophthalmic activity .
Retinal combines with the rod pigment , opsin , in the retina to form rhodopsin , necessary for visual dark adaptation .
Vitamin A prevents retardation of growth and preserves the epithelial cells ' integrity .
Normal adult liver storage is sufficient to satisfy two years ' requirements of vitamin A . Vitamin A is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , where the biosynthesis of vitamin A from beta - carotene takes place .
Vitamin A absorption requires bile salts , pancreatic lipase , and dietary fat .
It is transported in the blood to the liver by the chylomicron fraction of the lymph .
Vitamin A is stored in Kupffer cells of the liver mainly as the palmitate .
Normal serum vitamin A is 80 – 300 Units per 100 mL ( plasma range is 30 – 70 mcg per dl ) and for carotenoids 270 – 753 Units per 100 mL .
The normal adult liver contains approximately 100 to 300 micrograms per gram , mostly as retinol palmitate .
* Oil - soluble vitamin A water solubilized with polysorbate 80 .
INDICATIONS Vitamin A injection is effective for the treatment of vitamin A deficiency .
The parenteral administration is indicated when the oral administration is not feasible as in anorexia , nausea , vomiting , pre - and postoperative conditions , or it is not available as in the " Malabsorption Syndrome " with accompanying steatorrhea .
Pediatric Use : Vitamin A treatment for deficiency states has been recognized as an especially effective and important therapy in the pediatric population .
Vitamin A supplementation for deficiency states in this population has been addressed by the Committee on Clinical Practice Issues of the American Society for Clinical Nutrition , by the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition , and by the World Health Organization .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The intravenous administration .
Hypervitaminosis A . Sensitivity to any of the ingredients in this preparation .
Use in Pregnancy : Safety of amounts exceeding 6 , 000 Units of vitamin A daily during pregnancy has not been established at this time .
The use of vitamin A in excess of the recommended dietary allowance may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Animal reproduction studies have shown fetal abnormalities associated with overdosage in several species .
Malformations of the central nervous system , the eye , the palate , and the urogenital tract are recorded .
Vitamin A in excess of the recommended dietary allowance is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
If vitamin A is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking vitamin A , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
WARNINGS Avoid overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Pediatric Use : Polysorbates have been associated with E - Ferol syndrome ( thrombocytopenia , renal dysfunction , hepatomegaly , cholestasis , ascites , hypotension and metabolic acidosis ) in low birthweight infants .
PRECAUTIONS General : Protect from light .
Prolonged daily dose administration over 25 , 000 Units vitamin A should be under close supervision .
Blood level assays are not a direct measure of liver storage .
Liver storage should be adequate before discontinuing therapy .
Single vitamin A deficiency is rare .
Multiple vitamin deficiency is expected in any dietary deficiency .
Drug Interactions : Women on oral contraceptives have shown a significant increase in plasma vitamin A levels .
Carcinogenesis : There are no studies that show that administration of vitamin A will cause or prevent cancer .
Pregnancy : See CONTRAINDICATIONS section .
Nursing Mothers : The U . S . Recommended Daily Allowance ( RDA ) of vitamin A ( 5 , 000 Units ) is recommended for nursing mothers .
ADVERSE REACTIONS See OVERDOSAGE section .
Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported using the intravenous route .
Allergic reactions have been reported rarely with administration of AQUASOL ATMParenteral including one case of an anaphylactoid type reaction .
OVERDOSAGE The following amounts have been found to be toxic orally .
Toxicity manifestations depend on the age , dosage , size , and duration of administration .
Acute toxicity — single dose ( 25 , 000 Units / kg body weight ) Infant : 350 , 000 Units Adult : Over 2 million Units Chronic toxicity ( 4 , 000 Units / kg body weight for 6 to 15 months ) Infants 3 to 6 months old : 18 , 500 Units ( water dispersed ) / day for 1 to 3 months .
Adult : 1 million Units daily for three days ; 50 , 000 Units daily for longer than 18 months ; 500 , 000 Units daily for two months .
Hypervitaminosis A Syndrome : • 1 .
General manifestations : Fatigue , malaise , lethargy , abdominal discomfort , anorexia , and vomiting .
• 2 .
Specific manifestations : • a . Skeletal : hepatotoxicity , hard tender cortical thickening over the radius and tibia , migratory arthralgia , slow growth , and premature closure of the epiphysis leading to arrested bone growth in children .
b . Central Nervous System : irritability , headache , and increased intracranial pressure as manifested by bulging fontanels , papilledema , and exophthalmos .
c . Dermatologic : fissures of the lips , drying and cracking of the skin , alopecia , scaling , massive desquamation , and increased pigmentation .
d . Systemic : hypomenorrhea , hepatosplenomegaly , hepatotoxicity , jaundice , leukopenia , vitamin A plasma level over 1 , 200 Units / 100 mL .
The treatment of hypervitaminosis A consists of immediate withdrawal of the vitamin along with symptomatic and supportive treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intramuscular use .
• I . Adults 100 , 000 Units daily for three days followed by 50 , 000 Units daily for two weeks .
• II . Pediatric patients 1 to 8 years old 17 , 500 to 35 , 000 Units daily for 10 days .
• III . Infants 7 , 500 to 15 , 000 Units daily for 10 days .
Follow - up therapy with an oral therapeutic multivitamin preparation , containing 10 , 000 to 20 , 000 Units vitamin A for adults and for pediatric patients over 8 years old , and 5 , 000 to 10 , 000 Units for infants and other pediatric patients under 8 years old , is recommended daily for two months .
Low birth - weight infants may require additional vitamin A though the exact dosing in these pediatric patients has not been established .
In malabsorption , the parenteral route must be used for an equivalent preparation .
Poor dietary habits should be corrected and an abundant and well - balanced dietary intake should be prescribed .
HOW SUPPLIED AQUASOL ATMParenteral ( water - miscible vitamin A Palmitate ) is available as : Unit of Sale Concentration Each NDC 70199 - 026 - 11 Carton of 1 50 , 000 USP units / mL ( 15 mg retinol / mL ) NDC 70199 - 026 - 11 2 mL Single - dose vial Store at 2 – 8 ° C ( 36 – 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
PIB02611 - 01 Revised : 10 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Label 2 mL Single - dose Rx only NDC 70199 - 026 - 11 AQUASOL A ™ Parenteral Water - Miscible Vitamin A Palmitate 50 , 000 USP units / mL ( 15 mg retinol ) For Intramuscular Use .
Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Carton 2 mL Single - dose Vials Sterile NDC 70199 - 026 - 11 Rx only AQUASOL A ™ Parenteral Water - Miscible Vitamin A Palmitate 50 , 000 USP units / mL ( 15 mg retinol ) For Intramuscular Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
