Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purposes Glycerin 14 . 4 % Protectant Phenylephrine HCl 0 . 25 % Vasoconstrictor Pramoxine HCl 1 % Local Anesthetic White petrolatum 15 % Protectant Uses • For temporary relief of pain , soreness and burning • Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning • Temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • Temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • Heart disease • High blood pressure • Thyroid disease • Diabetes • Difficulty urinating due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression When using this product • Do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • Do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • Bleeding occurs the condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • An allergic reaction develops • The symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or soft cloth before applying the cream • When first opening the tube , remove the foil seal • Apply externally or in the lower portion of the anal canal only • Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning , or after each bowel movement • For application in the lower anal canal ; remove the cover from the dispensing cap .
Attach the dispensing cap to the tube .
Lubricate the dispensing cap well , then gently insert the dispensing cap partway into the anus .
• Thoroughly cleanse the dispensing cap after each use , and replace the cover • Children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other Information • Store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredient Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , anhydrous citric acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , cetyl alcohol , edetate disodium , glyceryl monostearate , laureth - 23 , methylparaben , mineral oil , panthenol , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , steareth - 2 , steareth - 20 , stearyl alcohol , vitamin E acetate , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
To Reorder Call : 1 - 800 - 281 - 7781 , Customer Care : 1 - 888 - 769 - 7873 or www . purityproducts . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 . 5 G Tube Carton NET WT .
0 . 9 OZ ( 25 . 5 G ) Save Uranus RAPID SOOTHING Relief & Comfort MAXIMUM STRENGTH FOR PAINFUL BURNING , ITCHING , & DISCOMFORT .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
