Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 1 . 0 % w / w Purpose : Acne Medicaiton Acne Medication Uses • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , call a Poison Control Center or get medical help right away • Skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur when using another topical acne product at the same time .
If irritation occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
• For more severe cases , or if improvement is not apparent within 6 - 8 weeks , consult a health care professional .
Know Adverse Reaction ( s ) : If you develop severe irritation , burning or itching of the skin , discontinue use and consult a health care professional .
• if you develop hives , swelling of the eyes and mouth , blistering or difficulty breathing , get medical help right away .
When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur when using another topical acne product at the same time .
If irritation occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , call a Poison Control Center or get medical help right away Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying the product For New Users • Apply product to a small area once a day for three days to test if you are sensitive to this product , if not discomfort occurs , cover the entire affected area with a thin layer • Start with one application daily , the gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed .
• If dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• Keep carton fo additional directions and warning information Inactive Ingredients Alteromonas Ferment Filtrate , Buddleja Officinalis Flower Extract , Butylene Glycol , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea Butter ) Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Caprylyl Glycol , Ceramide AP , Charcoal Powder , Citric Acid , Decyl Glucoside , Dimethicone , Glycerin , Hexylene Glycol , Hydroxyethylcellulose , L - Lactic Acid , Niacinamide , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Pentylene Glycol , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylate 13 , Polyisobutene , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Polysilicone - 11 , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Propanediol , Retinol , Sodium Hydroxide , Sodium Starch Octenylsuccinate , Water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
