Active ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporary relief of irritation and burning • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • adult : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area .
• Use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying topical hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information store at room temperature 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients 2 - Bromo - 2 - Nitropropane - 1 , 3 - Diol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Citric Acid , Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate , Glycerin , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , PEG - 75 Lanolin , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Citrate , Water Principal display panel - 48 count Compare to active ingredient in Preparation H Medicated Wipes Maximum strength medicated wipes gentle hemorrhoidal care with witch hazel and aloe to cool , soother and comfort 48 medicated wipes 6 in x x5in ( 15 . 2 cm x 12 . 7 cm ) Other Uses : • for vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• for use as a moist compress - if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold wipe to desired size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
Flowrap of 48 counts : [ MULTIMEDIA ] lid [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box of 96 counts containing 2 flowraps : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
