Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 13 . 65 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • Stop use and consult a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply to the entire face , neck , and décolleté , avoiding the eye area , in the morning .
Use only as directed .
Apply liberally to the entire face in the morning or 15 minutes prior to sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Apply to clean face with fingertips or brush and blend well .
Layer for additional coverage as needed .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua , Eau ) , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Coco - Caprylate , Glycerin , Glyceryl Behenate , Coco - Glucoside , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Cetearyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Caprylate , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Parachlorella Beijerinckii Exopolysaccharides , Chlorella Vulgaris Extract , Lactococcus Ferment Lysate , Alteromonas Ferment Extract , Caesalpinia Spinosa Fruit Pod Extract , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Sprout Extract , Caprylyl Glycol , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polyricinoleate , Xanthan Gum , Butylene Glycol , Isostearic Acid , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Algin , Calcium Alginate , Propanediol , Maltodextrin , Lactic Acid , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Chloride .
Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions Call toll free 1 - 877 - 650 - 1837 Principal Display Panel - 10 mL Box Label ALIVE Prebiotic Balancing Moisturizer SPF 15 Soin Prébiotique Équilibrant FPS 15 Broad Spectrum Sunscreen SPF 15 Écran Solaire Large Spectre FPS 15 ALGENISTAlguronic Acid + Prebiotic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
