CLOTRIMAZOLE - clotrimazole solution Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Disclaimer : Most OTC drugs are not reviewed and approved by FDA , however they may be marketed if they comply with applicable regulations and policies .
FDA has not evaluated whether this product complies .
---------- Clotrimazole Topical Solution USP , 1 % Drug Facts Active ingredient Clotrimazole USP , 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses Cures most • Athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • Jock Itch ( tinea cruris ) • Ringworm ( tinea corporis ) Effectively relieves • Itching • Cracking • Burning Discomfort which can accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use on children under 2 years of age When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) or 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • This product is not effective on the scalp or nails For best results , follow directions and continue treatment for length of time indicated .
For athlete ' s foot and ringworm : use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch : use daily for 2 weeks .
• clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product For athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes ; change shoes and socks at least once daily Other information • Store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredient polyethylene glycol 400 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Bottle Carton NDC 10135 - 0671 - 81 Compare to the active ingredient of Lotrimin ® AF * Clotrimazole Topical Solution USP , 1 % Antifungal • Relieves Itching & Burning • Greaseless , Nonstaining For External use only .
Not for Opthalmic use .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10135 - 0671 - 91 Clotrimazole Topical Solution USP , 1 % 30 mL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
