Rx Only DESCRIPTION Aminocaproic Acid is 6 - aminohexanoic acid , which acts as an inhibitor of fibrinolysis .
The structural formula is : NH2CH2 ( CH2 ) 3CH2COOH The molecular formula is : C6H13NO2Molecular Weight : 131 . 17 Aminocaproic Acid is soluble in water , acid and alkaline solutions ; it is sparingly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in chloroform .
Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP , for intravenous administration , is a sterile pyrogen - free solution containing 250 mg / mL of Aminocaproic Acid with Benzyl Alcohol 0 . 9 % , as a preservative , and Water for Injection q . s .
The pH is adjusted to approximately 6 . 8 with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The fibrinolysis - inhibitory effects of aminocaproic acid appear to be exerted principally via inhibition of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree through antiplasmin activity .
In adults , oral absorption appears to be a zero - order process with an absorption rate of 5 . 2 g / hr .
The mean lag time in absorption is 10 minutes .
After a single oral dose of 5 g , absorption was complete ( F = 1 ) .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations ( 164 ± 28 mcg / mL ) were reached within 1 . 2 ± 0 . 45 hours .
After oral administration , the apparent volume of distribution was estimated to be 23 . 1 ± 6 . 6 L ( mean ± SD ) .
Correspondingly , the volume of distribution after intravenous administration has been reported to be 30 . 0 ± 8 . 2 L .
After prolonged administration , aminocaproic acid has been found to distribute throughout extravascular and intravascular compartments of the body , penetrating human red blood cells as well as other tissue cells .
Renal excretion is the primary route of elimination , whether aminocaproic acid is administered orally or intravenously .
Sixty - five percent of the dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug and 11 % of the dose appears as the metabolite adipic acid .
Renal clearance ( 116 mL / min ) approximates endogenous creatinine clearance .
The total body clearance is 169 mL / min .
The terminal elimination half - life for aminocaproic acid is approximately 2 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aminocaproic Acid Injection is useful in enhancing hemostasis when fibrinolysis contributes to bleeding .
In life - threatening situations , fresh whole blood transfusions , fibrinogen infusions , and other emergency measures may be required .
Fibrinolytic bleeding may frequently be associated with surgical complications following heart surgery ( with or without cardiac bypass procedures ) , and portacaval shunt ; hematological disorders such as aplastic anemia ; acute and life - threatening abruptio placentae ; hepatic cirrhosis ; and neoplastic disease such as carcinoma of the prostate , lung , stomach , and cervix .
Urinary fibrinolysis , usually a normal physiological phenomenon , may frequently be associated with life - threatening complications following severe trauma , anoxia , and shock .
Symptomatic of such complications is surgical hematuria ( following prostatectomy and nephrectomy ) or nonsurgical hematuria ( accompanying polycystic or neoplastic diseases of the genitourinary system ) .
( See WARNINGS . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Aminocaproic acid should not be used when there is evidence of an active intravascular clotting process .
When there is uncertainty as to whether the cause of bleeding is primary fibrinolysis or disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) , this distinction must be made before administering aminocaproic acid .
The following tests can be applied to differentiate the two conditions : • Platelet count is usually decreased in DIC but normal in primary fibrinolysis .
• Protamine paracoagulation test is positive in DIC ; a precipitate forms when protamine sulfate is dropped into citrated plasma .
The test is negative in the presence of primary fibrinolysis .
• The euglobulin clot lysis test is abnormal in primary fibrinolysis but normal in DIC .
Aminocaproic acid must not be used in the presence of DIC without concomitant heparin .
WARNINGS Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
The administration of medications containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative to premature neonates has been associated with a fatal “ Gasping Syndrome ” .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
In patients with upper urinary tract bleeding , aminocaproic acid administration has been known to cause intrarenal obstruction in the form of glomerular capillary thrombosis or clots in the renal pelvis and ureters .
For this reason , aminocaproic acid should not be used in hematuria of upper urinary tract origin , unless the possible benefits outweigh the risk .
Subendocardial hemorrhages have been observed in dogs given intravenous infusions of 0 . 2 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of aminocaproic acid and in monkeys given 8 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of aminocaproic acid .
Fatty degeneration of the myocardium has been reported in dogs given intravenous doses of aminocaproic acid at 0 . 8 to 3 . 3 times the maximum human therapeutic dose and in monkeys given intravenous doses of aminocaproic acid at 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose .
Rarely , skeletal muscle weakness with necrosis of muscle fibers has been reported following prolonged administration .
Clinical presentation may range from mild myalgias with weakness and fatigue to a severe proximal myopathy with rhabdomyolysis , myoglobinuria , and acute renal failure .
Muscle enzymes , especially creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) are elevated .
CPK levels should be monitored in patients on long - term therapy .
Aminocaproic acid administration should be stopped if a rise in CPK is noted .
Resolution follows discontinuation of aminocaproic acid ; however , the syndrome may recur if aminocaproic acid is restarted .
The possibility of cardiac muscle damage should also be considered when skeletal myopathy occurs .
One case of cardiac and hepatic lesions observed in man has been reported .
The patient received 2 g of aminocaproic acid every 6 hours for a total dose of 26 g . Death was due to continued cerebrovascular hemorrhage .
Necrotic changes in the heart and liver were noted at autopsy .
PRECAUTIONS General Aminocaproic acid inhibits both the action of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree , plasmin activity .
The drug should NOT be administered without a definite diagnosis and / or laboratory finding indicative of hyperfibrinolysis ( hyperplasminemia ) .
* Rapid intravenous administration of the drug should be avoided since this may induce hypotension , bradycardia , and / or arrhythmia .
Inhibition of fibrinolysis by aminocaproic acid may theoretically result in clotting or thrombosis .
However , there is no definite evidence that administration of aminocaproic acid has been responsible for the few reported cases of intravascular clotting which followed this treatment .
Rather , it appears that such intravascular clotting was most likely due to the patient ’ s preexisting clinical condition , e . g . , the presence of DIC .
It has been postulated that extravascular clots formed in vivo may not undergo spontaneous lysis as do normal clots .
Reports have appeared in the literature of an increased incidence of certain neurological deficits such as hydrocephalus , cerebral ischemia , or cerebral vasospasm associated with the use of antifibrinolytic agents in the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) .
All of these events have also been described as part of the natural course of SAH , or as a consequence of diagnostic procedures such as angiography .
Drug relatedness remains unclear .
Thrombophlebitis , a possibility with all intravenous therapy , should be guarded against by strict attention to the proper insertion of the needle and the fixing of its position .
Epsilon - aminocaproic acid should not be administered with Factor IX Complex concentrates or Anti - Inhibitor Coagulant concentrates , as the risk of thrombosis may be increased .
Laboratory Tests The use of aminocaproic acid should be accompanied by tests designed to determine the amount of fibrinolysis present .
There are presently available : ( a ) general tests such as those for the determination of the lysis of a clot of blood or plasma ; and ( b ) more specific tests for the study of various phases of fibrinolytic mechanisms .
These latter tests include both semiquantitative and quantitative techniques for the determination of profibrinolysin , fibrinolysin , and antifibrinolysin .
DRUG & OR LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Prolongation of the template bleeding time has been reported during continuous intravenous infusion of aminocaproic acid at dosages exceeding 24 g / day .
Platelet function studies in these patients have not demonstrated any significant platelet dysfunction .
However , in vitro studies have shown that at high concentrations ( 7 . 4 mMol / L or 0 . 97 mg / mL and greater ) EACA inhibits ADP and collagen - induced platelet aggregation , the release of ATP and serotonin , and the binding of fibrinogen to the platelets in a concentration - response manner .
Following a 10 g bolus of aminocaproic acid , transient peak plasma concentrations of 4 . 6 mMol / L or 0 . 60 mg / mL have been obtained .
The concentration of aminocaproic acid necessary to maintain inhibition of fibrinolysis is 0 . 99 mMol / L or 0 . 13 mg / mL .
Administration of a 5 g bolus followed by 1 to 1 . 25 g / hr should achieve and sustain plasma levels of 0 . 13 mg / mL .
Thus , concentrations which have been obtained in vivo clinically in patients with normal renal function are considerably lower than the in vitro concentrations found to induce abnormalities in platelet function tests .
However , higher plasma concentrations of aminocaproic acid may occur in patients with severe renal failure .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of aminocaproic acid and studies to evaluate its mutagenic potential have not been conducted .
Dietary administration of an equivalent of the maximum human therapeutic dose of aminocaproic acid to rats of both sexes impaired fertility as evidenced by decreased implantations , litter sizes and number of pups born .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with aminocaproic acid .
It is also not known whether aminocaproic acid can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Aminocaproic acid should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when aminocaproic acid is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal “ gasping syndrome ” in neonates .
The “ gasping syndrome ” , characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , gasping respirations , and high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine , has been associated with exposure to benzyl alcohol in neonates and low - birth weight neonates .
Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse ( see WARNINGS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Aminocaproic acid is generally well tolerated .
The following adverse experiences have been reported : General : Edema , headache , malaise .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions , anaphylaxis .
Local Reactions : Injection site reactions , pain and necrosis .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , hypotension , peripheral ischemia , thrombosis .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , coagulation disorder , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Musculoskeletal : CPK increased , muscle weakness , myalgia , myopathy ( see WARNINGS ) , myositis , rhabdomyolysis .
Neurologic : Confusion , convulsions , delirium , dizziness , hallucinations , intracranial hypertension , stroke , syncope .
Respiratory : Dyspnea , nasal congestion , pulmonary embolism .
Skin : Pruritus , rash .
Special Senses : Tinnitus , vision decreased , watery eyes .
Urogenital : BUN increased , renal failure .
There have been some reports of dry ejaculation during the period of aminocaproic acid treatment .
These have been reported to date only in hemophilia patients who received the drug after undergoing dental surgical procedures .
However , this symptom resolved in all patients within 24 to 48 hours of completion of therapy .
OVERDOSAGE A few cases of acute overdosage with aminocaproic acid administered intravenously have been reported .
The effects have ranged from no reaction to transient hypotension to severe acute renal failure leading to death .
One patient with a history of brain tumor and seizures experienced seizures after receiving an 8 gram bolus injection of aminocaproic acid .
The single dose of aminocaproic acid causing symptoms of overdosage or considered to be life - threatening is unknown .
Patients have tolerated doses as high as 100 grams while acute renal failure has been reported following a dose of 12 grams .
The intravenous and oral LD50 of aminocaproic acid were 3 and 12 g / kg , respectively , in the mouse and 3 . 2 and 16 . 4 g / kg , respectively , in the rat .
An intravenous infusion dose of 2 . 3 g / kg was lethal in the dog .
On intravenous administration , tonic - clonic convulsions were observed in dogs and mice .
No treatment for overdosage is known , although evidence exists that aminocaproic acid is removed by hemodialysis and may be removed by peritoneal dialysis .
Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that total body clearance of aminocaproic acid is markedly decreased in patients with severe renal failure .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP is administered by infusion , utilizing the usual compatible intravenous vehicles ( e . g . , Sterile Water for Injection , Sodium Chloride Injection 0 . 9 % , Dextrose Injection 5 % or Ringer ’ s Injection ) .
Although Sterile Water for Injection is compatible for intravenous injection , the resultant solution is hypo - osmolar .
RAPID INJECTION OF AMINOCAPROIC ACID INJECTION , USP UNDILUTED INTO A VEIN IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
For the treatment of acute bleeding syndromes due to elevated fibrinolytic activity , it is suggested that 16 to 20 mL ( 4 to 5 g ) of Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP in 250 mL of diluent be administered by infusion during the first hour of treatment , followed by a continuing infusion at the rate of 4 mL ( 1 g ) per hour in 50 mL of diluent .
This method of treatment would ordinarily be continued for about 8 hours or until the bleeding situation has been controlled .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Oral Therapy : If the patient is able to take medication by mouth , an identical dosage regimen may be followed by administering aminocaproic acid tablets or aminocaproic acid syrup , 25 % as follows : For the treatment of acute bleeding syndromes due to elevated fibrinolytic activity , it is suggested that 5 grams of aminocaproic acid tablets or syrup be administered during the first hour of treatment , followed by a continuing rate of 1 gram of aminocaproic acid tablets or 1 . 25 grams of aminocaproic acid syrup per hour .
This method of treatment would ordinarily be continued for about 8 hours or until the bleeding situation has been controlled .
HOW SUPPLIED Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP , 250 mg / mL .
For intravenous infusion after dilution .
NDC 72572 - 015 - 25 20 mL multiple dose vialBoxes of 25 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Mfd for : Civica , Inc .
Lehi , Utah 84043 Mfd by : American Regent , Inc .
Shirley , New York 11967 IN015 Rev . 05 / 2020 MG # 47339 REFERENCES * Stefanini M . Dameshek W : The Hemorrhagic Disorders , Ed . 2 , New York , Grune and Stratton .
1962 ; pp . 510 - 514 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container Label NDC 72572 - 015 - 01 Rx Only Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP 5 g / 20 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) 20 mL Multiple Dose Vial For intravenous use after dilution .
Mfd for : Civica , Inc .
Lehi , UT 84043 Mfd by : American Regent , Inc .
Shirley , New York 11967 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Labeling NDC 72572 - 015 - 25 Rx Only Aminocaproic Acid Injection , USP 5 g / 20 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) 25 x 20 mL Multiple Dose Vials For intravenous infusion after dilution .
Each mL contains : Aminocaproic Acid 250 mg , Benzyl Alcohol 0 . 9 % , Water for Injection q . s . Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid to adjust pH . Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Initial Adult Dosage : 4 to 5 grams ( 16 - 20 mL ) intravenously followed by 1 gram ( 4 mL ) at hourly intervals thereafter .
See enclosed insert .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
Mfd by : Civica , Inc .
Lehi , UT 84043 Mfd by : American Regent , Inc .
Shirley , New York 11967 Rev . 04 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
