Zinc Oxide - 14 . 0 % Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
• For external use only • Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark , or while smoking .
• Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing in • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Apply outdoors .
Avoid overspray as could cause surface to become slippery .
Do not apply in windy conditions .
Use in a well ventilated area .
• Stop use and ask doctor if skin rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Shake well .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Hold container 4 to 6 inches from skin to apply .
Rub in .
Do not spray directly on face .
Spray onto hands and apply to face .
• When properly used , mineral sunscreens will leave a whitish tint when first applied .
• Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately afrer towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from : 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • May stain fabrics • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Water , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Shea Butter Ethyl Esters , Polyester - 8 , Bentonite , Octyldodecyl Oleate , Rubus ldaeus ( Raspberry ) Seed Oil , Daucus Carota Sativa ( Carrot ) Seed Oil , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Oil , Jojoba Esters , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Peel Oil , Citrus Reticulata ( Tangerine ) Peel Oil , Citrus Limon ( Lemon ) Peel Oil , Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) Oil , Mimosa Tenuiflora Bark Extract , Me1hyl Dihydrobietate , Caprylyl Glycol , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Cetearyl Alcohol , Coco - Glucoside , C14 - 22 Alcohols , Tocopherol , Caprylohydroxamic Acid , Glycerin , Cellulose Gum , C12 - 20 Alkyl Glucoside Call 760 - 940 - 2125 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
