SENNOSIDES 8 . 6 mg Tablet Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Disclaimer : Most OTC drugs are not reviewed and approved by FDA , however they may be marketed if they comply with applicable regulations and policies .
FDA has not evaluated whether this product complies .
---------- Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Sennosides 8 . 6 mg Purpose Laxative Uses • relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) generally • produces a bowel movement in 6 - 12 hours Warnings Do not use • laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • stomach Pain • Nausea • Vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that continues over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative .
These may indicate a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dosage maximum dosage adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years of age 1 / 2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Other information • Each tablet contains : Calcium 4 mg , Sodium 3 mg • Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients Colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , stearic acid * Compare to Senokot ® Product color may vary slightly due to nature of ingredients .
* Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc . is not affiliated with the owner of the registered trademark Senokot ® .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10135 - 0314 - 01 Sennosides 8 . 6 mg 100 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
