( in a cream base ) Rx only For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep away from eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
DESCRIPTION : UREA CREAM 45 % is a keratolytic emollient , which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram contains 45 % Urea in a cream base of : camphor , edetate disodium , alcohol , eucalyptus oil , hydroxyethyl cellulose , menthol , purified water , titanium dioxide , sodium hydroxide .
CHEMISTRY : Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix , which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas .
Urea also hydrates and gently dissolves the intercellular matrix of the nail plate , which can result in the softening and eventual removal of devitalized nail plate tissue .
PHARMACOKINETICS : The mechanism of action of topically applied Urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS AND USES : Urea 45 % Cream is indicated for use in the topical treatment for debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged devitalized and ingrown nails .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
If swallowed seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Centter immediately .
PRECAUTIONS : Use this medication only as directed by a physician .
It should not be used to treat and condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use .
After applying this medication , wash hands and unaffected areas thoroughly .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PREGNANCY : Pregnancy Category B . Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus , however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , Urea Cream 45 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Urea Cream 45 % is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient stinging , burning itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear on discontinuing medication .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION : Apply Urea Cream 45 % to damaged nail tissue or affected skin area ( s ) twice a day or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Urea Cream 45 % is supplied in 9 oz .
( 255 g ) tubes , NDC 42808 - 0202 - 09 .
Store at 25 째 C ( 77 째 F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 째 C ( 59 to 86 째 F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured in the U . S . A . for Exact - Rx , Inc . , Melville , NY 11747 00 - 0200 - 99 - 205 - 01 Iss : 10 / 11 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL For External Use Only NDC 42808 - 0202 - 09 Rx Only Urea In a vehicle containing camphor , eucalyptus oil and menthol 45 % CREAM Exact - Rx .
INCORPORATED Net Wt .
9 oz ( 255 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
