Drug Facts Active ingredients Iodine povacrylex ( 0 . 7 % available iodine ) Isopropyl alcohol , 74 % w / w Purpose Antiseptic Antiseptic Uses patient preoperative skin preparation : • for preparation of the skin prior to surgery • helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
To reduce the risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • do not use 26 - mL applicator for head and neck surgery • do not use on an area smaller than 8 in .
x 10 in .
Use a small applicator instead .
• solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors • do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) .
• avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Wet hair is flammable .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
• do not allow solution to pool • remove solution - stained material from prep area [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use • on patients with known allergies to iodine or any other ingredients in this product • on open wounds , on mucous membranes , or as a general skin cleanser • in infants less than 2 months old due to the risk of excessive skin irritation and transient hypothyroidism When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , flush with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
• to avoid skin injury , care should be taken when removing drapes , tapes , etc … applied over film • use with caution in women who are breast - feeding due to the potential for transient hypothyroidism in the nursing newborn Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
On rare occasions , use of this product has been associated with skin blistering .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ( follow all directions for use ) • at the end of the prep , discard any portion of the solution which is not required to cover the prep area .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available .
Getting Patient Ready for Solution : • use in well - ventilated area • do not microwave or heat the solution applicator • apply to clean , completely dry , residue - free , intact skin • when hair removal is necessary , use a surgical clipper on the morning of the surgery .
If a wet shave is used , thoroughly remove all soap residues .
Activating the Applicator : • with sponge face parallel to the floor , press the cap end of the applicator .
Solution will begin to flow into the sponge .
• wait for fluid level to reach indicator line of applicator barrel When Applying Solution : • DO NOT SCRUB .
Paint a single , uniform application and do not reprep area .
• do not allow solution to pool .
Use sponge applicator to absorb excess solution and continue to apply a uniform coating .
If solution accidentally gets outside of prep area , remove excess with gauze .
• clean umbilicus with enclosed swabs when applicable .
( Moisten swabs by pressing against solution - soaked sponge applicator . )
• tuck prep towels as needed under both sides of the neck to absorb excess solution .
Remove towels before draping .
• avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Wet hair is flammable .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
• when prepping skin folds , toes , or fingers , use a sterile - gloved hand to hold skin apart until completely dry .
Otherwise , skin may adhere to itself .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] After Applying Solution : • to reduce the risk of fire , wait until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) .
Solution will turn from a shiny to a dull appearance on skin alerting the user that the solution is completely dry and no longer flammable .
While Waiting for Solution to Completely Dry : • do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) • check for pooled solution .
Use sterile gauze to soak up pooled solution .
Do not blot because it may remove solution from skin .
• remove solution - stained materials .
Replace if necessary .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] After Solution is Completely Dry : • to reduce the risk of fire , begin draping and / or using cautery only after solution is completely dry and all solution - stained materials are removed • if incise drapes are used , apply directly to dry prep .
On completion of surgical procedure , removal of incise drape will remove film .
• apply dressing following standard practices Other information • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) • avoid excessive heat above 40ºC ( 104ºF ) • solution is not water soluble and may stain .
Therefore , avoid contact with reusable items ( basins , instruments ) .
Inactive ingredients ethyl alcohol , water Questions ?
call 1 - 800 - 228 - 3957 ( Monday to Friday 7 AM – 6 PM CST ) .
www . 3 M . com .
Principal Display Panel – 26 mL Applicator Label 3 M STERILE EO NDC 17518 - 011 - 08 Do Not Reuse 1 .
PRESS CAP DOWN 2 .
PAINT , DO NOT SCRUB DuraPrep TM Surgical Solution Iodine Povacrylex ( 0 . 7 % Available Iodine ) and Isopropyl Alcohol ( 74 % w / w ) Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation For large prep areas below the neck Non - Sterile Solution Applicator is sterile if package is intact REF 8630 0 . 9 fl oz • 26 mL External Use Only Professional Use Only Read Drug Facts Information before use .
Made in U . S . A . by [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 M Health Care 2510 Conway Ave . , St . Paul , MN 55144 1 - 800 - 228 - 3957 © 2015 , 3 M .
All rights reserved .
3 M and Duraprep are trademarks of 3 M .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 26 mL Insert Label 3 M STERILE EO NDC 17518 - 011 - 08 MAL09032040XR DuraPrep TM Surgical Solution Iodine Povacrylex ( 0 . 7 % Available Iodine ) and Isopropyl Alcohol ( 74 % w / w ) Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation Non - sterile Solution Applicator is sterile if package is intact For large prep areas below the neck Do Not Reuse Latex - Free Not Made With Natural Rubber Latex Single Use DuraPrep Surgical Solution is a film - forming iodophor complex .
Each unit dose applicator contains 0 . 9 fl oz ( 26 mL ) of solution which covers a 15 in x 30 in area ( approximately from shoulder to groin in an average size adult ) .
For procedures requiring less coverage , a smaller applicator is available ( 8635 ) .
It contains 0 . 2 fl oz ( 6 mL ) of solution which covers an approximate 8 in x 10 in area .
Do not use more than required for the area .
3 M recommends all users participate in product in - service training prior to use .
In - servicing is available on video , from your 3 M sales representative , or at the 3 M website ( www . 3 M . com ) .
REF 8630 0 . 9 fl oz • 26 mL 3 M Made in U . S . A . by [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 M Health Care 2510 Conway Ave . St . Paul , MN 55144 1 - 800 - 228 - 3957 © 2015 , 3 M .
All rights reserved .
3 M and DuraPrep are trademarks of 3 M [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
