Active Ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 13 % , Octisalate 3 % , Octocrylene 2 % , Oxybenzone 6 % Sunscreen Uses - Helps prevent sunburn - Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection - Provides high protection against sunburn - Retains SPF after 40 minutes of activity in the water Warnings For external use only UV exposure from the sun increases the risk of skin cancer , premature skin aging , and other skin damage .
It is important to decrease UV exposure by limiting time in the sun , wearing protective clothing , and using a sunscreen When using this product - keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if - rash or irritation develops and lasts Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions - Apply generously and evenly before sun exposure and as needed - Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor - Reapply as need or after toweling drying , swimming , or perspiring Inactive ingredients Water , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Stearyl / octadodecyl Citrate Crosspolymer , Pentaerythrityl Distearate , Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Sodium Polyacrylate , Fragrance , Ethylhexylglycerin , Tropolone , Disodium Edta , Tetrasodium Edta , Benzyl Salicylate , Geraniol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Coumarin , Maltodextrin .
Questions ?
visit www . cadeyusa . com Bilboa Capri , inspired by one of the best - known Mediterranean islands , comes from Cadey ’ s Italian experience .
The 30 Lotion provides UVA / UVB sunscreen protection against sunburn .
It is also enriched with moisturizes and soothing Aloe and Vitamin E . Dermatologically tested - Aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) - free Made In Italy Manufactured for Cadey Srl Distributed by RBY LLC 5816 Avian Place Concord NC 28025 cadey BILBOA Caprl Sunscreen Lotion Broad spectrum UVA / UVB protection Moisturizing and soothing formula 30 SPF Water - resistant With Aloe 6 . 76 fl oz ( 200 ML ) Made In Italy Manufactured for Cadey Srl Distributed by RBY LLC 5816 Avian Place Concord NC 28025 cadey 8 51055 00302 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
