Multi - Vitamin Drops with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Supplemental Facts Percentage of U . S . Recommended Daily Allowance Each1 . 0 mLsupplies : Children6mosto4Yearsold Vitamin A ( as Vitamin A Palmitate ) 1500 IU 60 % Vitamin C ( as Ascorbic Acid ) 35 mg 88 % Vitamin D ( as Cholecalciferol ) 400 IU 100 % Vitamin E ( as D - Alpha - Tocopheryl Acid Succinate ) 5 IU 50 % Vitamin B1 ( as Thiamine HCl ) 0 . 5 mg 71 % Vitamin B2 ( as Riboflavin Phosphate Sodium ) 0 . 6 mg 75 % Vitamin B12 ( as Cyanocobalamin ) 2 mcg 67 % Niacin ( as Niacinamide ) 8 mg 89 % Vitamin B6 ( as Pyridoxine HCl ) 0 . 4 mg 57 % Fluoride ( as Sodium Fluoride ) 0 . 5 mg * * Daily Value not established .
See INDICATIONS AND USAGE section for use by children 6 months to 6 years of age .
This product does not contain the essential vitamin folic acid .
Activeingredientforcariesprophylaxis : Fluoride as sodium fluoride .
This product does not contain Folic Acid .
Other ingredients : Cherry Flavor , Citric Acid Anhydrous , Glycerin , Orange Flavor , Potassium Sorbate , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Benzoate , Sorbitol Solution , Sucralose .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY It is well established that fluoridation of the water supply ( 1 ppm fluoride ) during the period of tooth development leads to a significant decrease in the incidence of dental caries .
Hydroxyapatite is the principal crystal for all calcified tissue in the human body .
The fluoride ion reacts with hydroxyapatite in the tooth as it is formed to produce the more caries - resistant crystal , fluorapatite .
The reaction may be expressed by the equation : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Three stages of fluoride deposition in tooth enamel can be distinguished : • Small amounts ( reflecting the low levels of fluoride in tissue fluids ) are incorporated into the enamel crystals while they are being formed .
• After enamel has been laid down , fluoride deposition continues in the surface enamel .
Diffusion of fluoride from the surface inward is apparently restricted .
• After eruption , the surface enamel acquires fluoride from water , food , supplementary fluoride and smaller amounts from saliva .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with vitamins A , C and D . Multi - Vitamin Drops with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg also provides fluoride for caries prophylaxis .
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to age 16 , in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride , receive daily fluoride supplementation .
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommend that infants and young children 6 months to 3 years of age , in areas where the drinking water contains less than 0 . 3 ppm of fluoride , and children 3 - 6 years of age , in areas where the drinking water contains 0 . 3 through 0 . 6 ppm of fluoride , receive 0 . 5 mg of supplemental fluoride daily which is provided in a dose of 1 mL of Multi - Vitamin Drops with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg ( See Dosage and Administration ) .
Multi - Vitamin Drops with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg supply significant amounts of vitamins A , C and D to supplement the diet , and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop .
Thus , in a single easy - to - use preparation , children obtain essential vitamins and fluoride .
WARNINGS As in the case of all medications , keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS The suggested dose should not be exceeded since dental fluorosis may result from continued ingestion of large amounts of fluoride .
When prescribing vitamin fluoride products : • Determine the fluoride content of the drinking water .
• Make sure the child is not receiving significant amounts of fluoride from other medications and swallowed toothpaste .
• Periodically check to make sure that the child does not develop significant dental fluorosis .
Multi - Vitamin Drops with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg should be dispensed in the original plastic container , since contact with glass leads to instability and precipitation .
( The amount of sodium fluoride in the 50 mL size is well below the maximum to be dispensed at one time according to recommendations of the American Dental Association . )
Important Considerations When Using Dosage Schedule : • If fluoride level is unknown , drinking water should be tested for fluoride content before supplements are prescribed .
For testing of fluoride content , contact the local or state health department .
• All sources of fluoride should be evaluated with a thorough fluoride history .
Patient exposure to multiple water sources can make proper prescribing complex .
• Ingestion of higher than recommended levels of fluoride by children has been associated with an increase in mild dental fluorosis in developing , unerupted teeth .
• Fluoride supplements require long - term compliance on a daily basis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : See following chart .
May be dropped directly into the mouth with dropper ; or mixed with cereal , fruit juice or other food .
FluorideIonLevelinDrinkingWater ( ppm ) * Age < 0 . 3 ppm 0 . 3 - 0 . 6 ppm > 0 . 6 ppm Birth - 6 months None None None 6 mos - 3 years 0 . 25 mg ( 1 mL ) / day † None None 3 - 6 years 0 . 50 mg ( 2 mL ) / day 0 . 25 mg ( 1 mL ) / day None * 1 . 0 ppm = 1 mg / liter † 2 . 2 mg sodium fluoride contains 1 mg fluoride ion .
HOW SUPPLIED Multi - Vitamin and Fluoride 0 . 5 mg drops is available in 50 mL bottles with accompanying calibrated dropper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RECOMMENDED STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 25 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
Excursions Permitted .
After opening store away from direct light .
Close tightly after each use .
Occasional deepening of color has no significant effect on vitamin potency .
REFRIGERATION IS NOT REQUIRED .
SHAKE WELL .
REFERENCES • Brudevoid F , McCann HG : Fluoride and caries control - Mechanism of action , in Nizel AE ( ed ) : TheScienceofNutritionanditsApplicationinClinicalDentistry . Philadelphia , WB Saunders Co , 1966 , pp 331 - 347 .
• American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Nutrition : Fluoride supplementation , Pediatrics1986 ; 77 : 758 .
• American Dental Association Council on Dental Therapeutics : AcceptedDentalTherapeutics , ed 38 , Chicago , 1979 , p321 .
• Hennon DK , Stookey GK , Muhler JC : The clinical anticariogenic effectiveness of supplementary fluoride - vitamin preparations - Results at the end of three years .
JDentChildren1966 ; 33 January : 3 - 12 .
• Hennon DK , Stookey GK , Muhler JC : The clinical anticariogenic effectiveness of supplementary fluoride - vitamin preparations - Results at the end of four years .
JDentChildren1967 ; 34 November ; 439 - 443 .
• Hennon DK , Stookey GK , Muhler JC : The clinical anticariogenic effectiveness of supplementary fluoride - vitamin preparations - Results at the end of five and a half years .
PharandTherinDent1970 ; 1 : 1 .
• Hennon DK , Stookey GK , Beiswanger BB : Fluoride - vitamin supplements : Effects on dental caries and fluorosis when used in areas with suboptimum fluoride in the water supply .
JAmDentAssoc1977 ; 95 - 965 Distributed by : Method Pharmaceuticals , LLC Fort Worth , TX 76118 877 - 250 - 3427 Rev . 01 / 17 Made in the USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 58657 - 326 - 50 Multi - Vitamin Drops With Fluoride 0 . 5 mg 1 . 69 FL .
OZ .
( 50 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
