Description Each tablet contains : Methenamine , USP ................................. 81 . 6 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , USP ......... 40 . 8 mg Methylene Blue ....................................... 10 . 8 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate ...............................
0 . 12 mg Inactive Ingredients include : Microcrystalline Cellulose , Mannitol , Croscarmellose Sodium , Magnesium Stearate , FD & C Blue # 1 HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE is an alkaloid of belladonna .
Exists as a white crystalline powder .
Affected by light It is very soluble in water ; freely soluble in alcohol ; practically insoluble in ether .
METHENAMINE exists as colorless , lustrous crystals or white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Freely soluble in water ; soluble in alcohol and in chloroform .
METHYLENE BLUE exists as dark green crystals .
It is soluble in water and in chloroform ; sparingly soluble in alcohol .
MONOBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE exists as a white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are acidic to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
This product is not an Orange Book ( OB ) rated product , therefore all prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
There are no claims of bioequivalence or therapeutic equivalence .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY HYOSCYAMINE is a parasympatholytic which relaxes smooth muscles and thus produces an antispasmodic effect .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly distributed throughout body tissues .
Most is excreted in the urine within 12 hours , 13 % to 50 % being unchanged .
Its biotransformation is hepatic .
Its protein binding is moderate .
METHENAMINE degrades in an acidic urine environment releasing formaldehyde which provides bactericidal or bacteriostatic action .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
70 % to 90 % reaches the urine unchanged at which point it is hydrolyzed if the urine is acidic .
Within 24 hours it is almost completely ( 90 % ) excreted ; of this amount at pH 5 , approximately 20 % is formaldehyde .
Protein binding : some formaldehyde is bound to substances in the urine and surrounding tissues .
Methenamine is freely distributed to body tissue and fluids but is not clinically significant as it does not hydrolyze at pH greater than 6 . 8 .
METHYLENE BLUE possesses weak antiseptic properties .
It is well absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly reduced to leukomethylene blue which is stabilized in some combination form in the urine .
75 % is excreted unchanged .
MONOBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE helps to maintain an acid pH in the urine necessary for the degradation of methenamine .
INDICATION AND USAGE ME / NaPhos / MB / Hyo 1 Tablets is indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding .
Indicated for the relief of local symptoms , such as hypermotility which accompany lower urinary tract infections and as antispasmodic .
Indicated for the relief of urinary tract symptoms caused by diagnostic procedures .
WARNINGS Do not exceed recommended dosage .
If rapid pulse , dizziness , or blurring of vision occurs discontinue use immediately .
PRECAUTIONS ( Pregnancy Category C ) hyoscyamine and methenamine cross the placenta .
Studies have not been done in animals or humans .
It is not known whether ME / NaPhos / MB / Hyo 1 Tablets cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
ME / NaPhos / MB / Hyo 1 Tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Breast - feeding problems in humans have not been documented ; however , methenamine and traces of hyoscyamine are excreted in breast milk .
Prolonged use there have been no studies to establish the safety of prolonged use in humans .
No known long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pediatric infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effect of the belladonna alkaloids .
Geriatric use with caution in elderly patients as they may respond to usual doses of hyoscyamine with excitement , agitation , drowsiness , or confusion .
Drug Interactions because of this product ' s effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying , it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as : urinary alkalizers ; thiazide diuretics ( may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde ) ; antimuscarinics ( concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications ) ; antacids / antidiarrheals ( may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine , concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde ) doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine ; antimyasthenics ( concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility ) ; ketoconazole ( patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole ) ; monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) Inhibitors ( concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects , opioid ( narcotic ) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation ) ; sulfonamides ( these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine , increasing the danger of crystalluria ) .
Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of methylene blue .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular – rapid pulse , flushing Central Nervous System – blurred vision , dizziness Respiratory – shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary – difficulty micturition , acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal – dry mouth , nausea / vomiting DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE A dependence on the use of ME / NaPhos / MB / Hyo 1 Tablets has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients , abuse of ME / NaPhos / MB / Hyo 1 Tablets is not expected .
OVERDOSAGE Emesis or gastric lavage .
Slow intravenous administration of physostigmine in doses of 1 mg to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 mg to 1 mg in children ) , repeated as needed in one to two hours to reverse severe antimuscarinic symptoms .
Administration of small doses of diazepam to control excitement and seizures .
Artificial respiration with oxygen if needed for respiratory depression .
Adequate hydration .
Symptomatic treatment as necessary .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Older Children Dosage must be individualized by physician .
Not recommended for use in children up to 6 years of age .
HOW SUPPLIED ME / NaPhos / MB / Hyo 1 Tablets are light blue to blue , oval , biconvex tablets debossed with " M455 " with scoreline on one side and plain on the other side .
Supplied in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 58657 - 454 - 01 ) .
CAUTION RX ONLY STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Distributed By : Method Pharmaceuticals , LLC Arlington , TX 76006 Rev . Date : 01 / 2016 DIRECTIONS : 1 Tablet 4 times daily followed by liberal fluid intake , or as directed by a physician .
FOR FULL PRODUCT INFORMATION SEE ATTACHED BOOKLET .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture or direct sunlight .
NOTE : Patient should be advised that urine will be colored blue while taking this medication .
PHARMACIST : Preserve and dispense in tight - light resistant container as defined in the USP .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Tamper evident by heat seal under cap .
Do not use if there is evidence of tampering .
To report an adverse event , please contact Method Pharmaceuticals , LLC at ( 877 ) 250 - 3427 .
Distributed by : Method Pharmaceuticals , LLC Arlington , TX 76006 Rev . Date : 01 / 2016 Pinciple Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Booklet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
