Genentech A Member of the Roche Group IMPORTANT PRESCRIBING INFORMATION May 2018 Subject : Temporary Importation of Sterile Water for Injection ( SWFI ) Ampules to Address Supply Shortage Dear Health Care Provider : In order to address ongoing shortages of Sterile Water for Injection ( SWFI ) , Genentech , Inc . ( A Member of the Roche Group ) is coordinating with the U . S . FDA Drug Shortage Staff to make available 5 mL SWFI ampules manufactured by Roche ' s SWFI supplier in Germany .
At this time , no other entity except Genentech is authorized by the FDA to import or distribute Sterile Water for Injection , USP , 5 mL Single - Dose Ampule in the U . S .
The FDA has not approved Genentech ' s Sterile Water for Injection , USP , 5 mL Single - Dose Ampule in the United States .
SWFI presentations most commonly available in the U . S . are in vials .
Genentech is temporarily importing SWFI presentations from Germany in 5 mL glass ampules .
Pictures of the 5 mL SWFI ampule and label are enclosed at the end of this letter .
Effective immediately , Genentech will offer free of charge a limited supply on an allocation plan of the following : Product Name and Description Size NDC Store at Sterile Water for Injection , USP Sterile , clear and colorless liquid 5 mL glass ampule 50242 - 001 - 05 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) See USP Controlled Room Temperature The dosage and administration instructions provided in the FDA package inserts of the drug being reconstituted should be followed when using the 5 mL SWFI ampules .
It is also important to note the following : • There is a risk of contamination by glass particles when opening the 5 mL SWFI ampules .
To minimize particulate contamination : • Follow standard aseptic technique and withdraw contents of the ampules with a 5 micron filter needle ( American Society of Health - System Pharmacists Guidelines on Compounding Sterile Preparations 2014 ) .
• After withdrawing ampule contents with filter needle , change needle before injection .
• The barcode on the SWFI ampule label may not register with U . S . scanning systems .
Institutions should manually input the SWFI information into their systems and confirm that the barcode , if scanned , provides correct information .
Alternative procedures should be followed to ensure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
To place an order for 5 mL SWFI ampules , please contact Genentech Customer Service by calling 1 - 800 - 551 - 2231 .
If you have any medical questions about the information contained in this letter or the use of the imported 5 mL SWFI ampules , please contact Genentech Medical Communications at 1 - 800 - 821 - 8590 .
To report a product complaint concerning the imported 5 mL SWFI ampules , please contact Genentech Product Quality at 1 - 800 - 334 - 0290 .
To report an adverse event concerning the imported 5 mL SWFI ampules , please contact Genentech at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 .
Adverse events or quality problems experienced with the use of the 5 mL SWFI ampules may also be reported to the FDA ' s MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program either online , by regular mail or by fax : • Complete and submit the report online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular mail or fax : Download form at www . fda . gov / MedWatch / getforms . htm or call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 to request a reporting form , then complete and return to the address on the pre - addressed form , or submit by fax to 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 .
Sincerely , Lance Baldo , M . D . , Head of U . S . Medical Affairs Reference : American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP Guidelines on Compounding Sterile Preparations .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
2014 ; 71 : 145 – 66 .
Product Picture and Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Ampule Label NDC 50242 - 001 - 05 Sterile Water for Injection , USP FOR DRUG DILUENT USE ONLY 5 mL Single - Dose Ampule NOT FOR SALE Rx only Genentech EXP Lot [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
