Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 2 . 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 7 . 5 mg Guaifenesin 150 mg Phenylephrine HCI 5 mg Purposes Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make cough more productive and drain bronchial tubes • stuffy nose Warnings Do not use • to sedate a child or make a child sleepy • in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • glaucoma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a breathing problem or persistent or chronic cough that lasts such as occurs with asthma or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is • taking any other oral nasal decongestant or stimulant • taking sedatives , tranquilizers • Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness , or sleepless occurs • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistant headache These can be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended dosage • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 hour period • keep dosing cup for use with this product • mL = milliliters children under 2 years Consult a doctor children 2 to under 6 years of age 1 . 25 mL every 4 hours children 6 to 12 years of age 2 . 5 mL every 4 hours children 12 years and over 5 mL every 4 hours Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • close cap tightlly • SAVE CARTON FOR COMPLETE DRUG FACTS Inactive ingredients citric acid , flavor , glycerin , hydroxyethylcellulose , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sorbitol solution , and sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 787 - 848 - 9114 , Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST .
Call your doctor for medical advice in the event of side effects .
Tamper evident : do not use if safety seal is broken or missing MANUFACTURED FOR GIL PHARMACEUTICAL CORP .
PONCE , PUERTO RICO 00717 - 1565 Children ' s GILTUSS ® COUGH & COLD ANTITUSSIVE , EXPECTORANT , NASAL DECONGESTANT Alcohol Free .
Sugar Free .
Dye Free .
• COUGH AND COLD • CHEST CONGESTION • STUFFY NOSE • NASAL CONGESTION • LOOSEN PHLEGM AND MUCUS • SINUS PRESSURE CHERRY FLAVOR 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
