WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION and PULMONARY TOXICITY Myelosuppression Carmustine for injection , USP causes suppression of marrow function ( including thrombocytopenia and leukopenia ) , which may contribute to bleeding and overwhelming infections .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Monitor blood counts weekly for at least 6 weeks after each dose .
Adjust dosage based on nadir blood counts from the prior dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Do not administer a repeat course of carmustine for injection , USP until blood counts recover .
Pulmonary Toxicity Carmustine for injection , USP causes dose - related pulmonary toxicity .
Patients receiving greater than 1400 mg / m2 cumulative dose are at significantly higher risk than those receiving less .
Delayed pulmonary toxicity can occur years after treatment , and can result in death , particularly in patients treated in childhood [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION and PULMONARY TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Suppression of marrow function , notably thrombocytopenia and leukopenia , is the most common and severe of the toxic effects of carmustine for injection , USP .
Monitor blood counts .
( 5 , 6 ) .
• Pulmonary toxicity from carmustine for injection , USP appears to be dose related .
Patients receiving greater than 1400 mg / m2 cumulative dose are at significantly higher risk than those receiving less ( 5 , 6 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carmustine for injection , USP is indicated as palliative therapy as a single agent or in established combination therapy in the following : - Brain tumors glioblastoma , brainstem glioma , medulloblastoma , astrocytoma , ependymoma , and metastatic brain tumors .
- Multiple myeloma in combination with prednisone .
- Relapsed or refractory Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in combination with other approved drugs .
- Relapsed or refractory Non - Hodgkin ' s lymphomas in combination with other approved drugs .
Carmustine for injection , USP is a nitrosourea indicated as palliative therapy as a single agent or in established combination therapy with other approved chemotherapeutic agents in the following : • Brain tumors glioblastoma , brainstem glioma , medulloblastoma , astrocytoma , ependymoma , and metastatic brain tumors ( 1 ) • Multiple myeloma - in combination with prednisone ( 1 ) • Relapsed or refractory Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in combination with other approved drugs ( 1 ) • Relapsed or refractory Non - Hodgkin ' s lymphomas in combination with other approved drugs ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Dosage : As a single agent , 150 to 200 mg / m2carmustine for injection , USP intravenously every 6 weeks as a single dose or divided into daily injections such as 75 to 100 mg / m2on 2 successive days .
Adjust dose for combination therapy or in patients with reduced bone marrow reserve ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer reconstituted solution only as a slow intravenous infusion over at least 2 hours .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage The recommended dose of carmustine for injection , USP as a single agent in previously untreated patients is 150 to 200 mg / m2 intravenously every 6 weeks .
Administer as a single dose or divided into daily injections such as 75 to 100 mg / m2 on two successive days .
Lower the dose when carmustine for injection , USP is used with other myelosuppressive drugs or in patients in whom bone marrow reserve is depleted .
Administer carmustine for injection , USP for the duration according to the established regimen .
Premedicate each dose with anti - emetics .
Adjust doses subsequent to the initial dose according to the hematologic response of the patient to the preceding dose .
The following schedule is suggested as a guide to dosage adjustment : Nadir After Prior Dose Percentage of Prior Dose to be Given Leukocytes / mm3 Platelets / mm3 > 4000 > 100 , 000 100 % 3000 - 3999 75 , 000 - 99 , 999 100 % 2000 - 2999 25 , 000 - 74 , 999 70 % < 2000 < 25 , 000 50 % The hematologic toxicity can be delayed and cumulative .
Monitor blood counts weekly .
Do not administer a repeat course of carmustine for injection , USP until circulating blood elements have returned to acceptable levels ( platelets above 100 Gi / L , leukocytes above 4 Gi / L and absolute neutrophil count above 1 Gi / L ) .
The usual interval between courses is 6 weeks .
Evaluate renal function prior to administration and periodically during treatment .
For patients with compromised renal function , monitor for toxicity more frequently .
Discontinue carmustine for injection , USP if the creatinine clearance is less than 10 mL / min .
Do not administer carmustine for injection , USP to patients with compromised renal function .
Monitor transaminases and bilirubin periodically during treatment .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration of Intravenous Solution • Dissolve carmustine for injection , USP with 3 mL of the supplied sterile diluent ( Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP ) .
• Aseptically add 27 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
• Each mL of resulting solution contains 3 . 3 mg of carmustine for injection , USP in 10 % ethanol .
Such solutions should be protected from light .
• The reconstituted solution is a clear , colorless to yellowish solution .
• Once reconstituted , the solution must be further diluted with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
• Examine reconstituted vials for crystal formation prior to use .
If crystals are observed , they may be re - dissolved by warming the vial to room temperature with agitation .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
• After reconstitution as recommended , carmustine for injection , USP is stable for 24 hours under refrigeration ( 2 ° - 8 ° C , 36 ° - 46 ° F ) in glass container .
Examine reconstituted vials for crystal formation prior to use .
If crystals are observed , they may be redissolved by warming the vial to room temperature with agitation .
• Vials reconstituted as directed and further diluted with 500 mL Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , in glass or polypropylene containers to a concentration of 0 . 2 mg / mL , should be stored at room temperature , protected from light and utilized within 8 hours .
These solutions are also stable 24 hours under refrigeration ( 2 ° - 8 ° C , 36 ° - 46 ° F ) and an additional 6 hours at room temperature protected from light .
• Administer reconstituted solution by slow intravenous infusion over at least two hours .
Administration of carmustine for injection , USP over a period of less than two hours can lead to pain and burning at the site of injection .
Monitor the injected area during the administration .
The rate of administration of the intravenous infusion should not be more than 1 . 66 mg / m2 / min .
• See Section 16 . 2 for important instructions on the storage and handling of the injection .
Carmustine for injection , USP is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 • The lyophilized dosage formulation contains no preservatives and is not intended for use as a multiple dose via .
Accidental contact of reconstituted carmustine for injection , USP with the skin has caused transient hyperpigmentation of the affected areas .
Wear impervious gloves to minimize the risk of dermal exposure impervious gloves when handling vials containing carmustine for injection , USP .
Immediately wash the skin or mucosa thoroughly with soap and water if carmustine for injection , USP lyophilized material or solution contacts the skin or mucosa1 .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 100 mg of carmustine as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and a vial containing 3 mL sterile diluent ( Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP ) .
For injection : 100 mg of carmustine lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and a vial containing 3 mL sterile diluent ( Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carmustine for injection , USP is contraindicated in patients with previous hypersensitivity to carmustine for injection , USP or its components .
Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Administration Reactions : Extravasation may occur ; monitor infusion site closely during administration ( 5 . 3 ) • Carcinogenicity : Potentially carcinogenic to humans .
Monitor patient periodically for such signs and apprise the patient of the symptoms for which they need to seek medical help .
( 5 . 4 ) • Ocular Toxicity : Has occurred when administered via unapproved intraarterial intracarotid route .
( 5 . 5 ) • Embryo - Fetal toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to avoid pregnancy .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression Bone marrow toxicity is a dose - limiting , common and severe toxic effect of carmustine for injection , USP occurring 4 - 6 weeks after drug administration ( thrombocytopenia occurs at about 4 weeks post - administration persisting for 1 to 2 weeks ; leukopenia occurs at 5 to 6 weeks after a dose of carmustine for injection , USP persisting for 1 to 2 weeks ; thrombocytopenia is generally more severe than leukopenia ; anemia is less frequent and less severe compared to thrombocytopenia and / or leukopenia ) Complete blood count should therefore be monitored weekly for at least six weeks after a dose .
Repeat doses of carmustine for injection , USP should not be given more frequently than every six weeks .
The bone marrow toxicity of carmustine for injection , USP is cumulative and therefore the dosage adjustment must be considered on the basis of nadir blood counts from prior dose [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Greater myelotoxicity ( e . g . , leukopenia and neutropenia ) has been reported when carmustine was combined with cimetidine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 2 Pulmonary Toxicity Cases of fatal pulmonary toxicity with carmustine for injection , USP have been reported .
Pulmonary toxicity characterized by pulmonary infiltrates and / or fibrosis has been reported to occur from 9 days to 43 months after treatment with carmustine for injection , USP and related nitrosoureas .
Pulmonary toxicity from carmustine for injection , USP is dose - related .
Patients receiving greater than 1400 mg / m2 cumulative dose are at significantly higher risk than those receiving less .
However , there have been reports of pulmonary fibrosis in patients receiving lower total doses .
Interstitial fibrosis ( with lower doses ) occurred rarely .
Additionally , delayed onset pulmonary fibrosis occurring up to 17 years after treatment has been reported in patients who received carmustine for injection , USP ( in cumulative doses ranging from 770 to 1800 mg / m2 combined with cranial radiotherapy for intracranial tumors ) in childhood and early adolescence .
Other risk factors include past history of lung disease and duration of treatment .
Baseline pulmonary function studies should be conducted along with frequent pulmonary function tests during treatment .
Patients with a baseline below 70 % of the predicted forced vital capacity ( FVC ) or carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ( DLCO ) are particularly at risk .
5 . 3 Administration Reactions Injection site reactions may occur during the administration of carmustine for injection , USP .
Rapid intravenous infusion of carmustine for injection , USP may produce intensive flushing of the skin and suffusion of the conjunctiva within 2 hours , lasting about 4 hours .
It is also associated with burning at the site of injection although true thrombosis is rare .
Given the possibility of extravasation , close monitoring of the infusion site for possible infiltration during drug administration is recommended .
A specific treatment for extravasation reactions is unknown at this time .
5 . 4 Carcinogenicity Long - term use of nitrosoureas , such as carmustine for injection , USP , has been reported to be associated with the development of secondary malignancies .
Carmustine was carcinogenic when administered to laboratory animals [ see Nonclinical Toxicity ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Nitrosourea therapy , such as carmustine for injection , USP , has carcinogenic potential in humans .
Patients treated with carmustine for injection , USP should be monitored long - term for development of second malignancies .
5 . 5 Ocular Toxicity Carmustine for injection , USP has been administered through an intraarterial intracarotid route ; this procedure is investigational and has been associated with ocular toxicity .
Safety and effectiveness of the intraarterial route have not been established .
5 . 6 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Carmustine was embryotoxic in rats and rabbits and teratogenic in rats when given in doses lower than the maximum cumulative human dose based on body surface area .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception during and after treatment with carmustine for injection , USP for at least 6 months after therapy .
Advise males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with carmustine for injection , USP for at least 3 months after therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Pulmonary toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Administration Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Carcinogenicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Ocular Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of carmustine for injection , USP were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac Disorders Tachycardia and chest pain .
Eye Disorders Conjunctival edema , conjunctival hemorrhage , blurred vision and loss of depth perception Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea , vomiting , anorexia , and diarrhea Hepatotoxicity Increased transaminase , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased bilirubin levels Infections and Infestations Opportunistic infection ( including with fatal outcome ) .
Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified ( including cysts and polyps ) Acute leukemia , bone marrow dysplasias .
Nephrotoxicity Progressive azotemia , decrease in kidney size , renal failure Nervous System Disorders Headaches , encephalopathy , and seizures Pulmonary Toxicity Pneumonitis , interstitial lung disease Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Gynecomastia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Burning sensation , hyperpigmentation , swelling , pain , erythema , skin necrosis , alopecia , allergic reaction Vascular Disorders Veno - occlusive disease .
Most common adverse reactions ( > 1 % ) are nausea , vomiting , renal toxicity , pneumonitis , pulmonary toxicity , myelosuppression ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc , Pennington , NJ 08534 at + 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at + 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cimetidine : Increased myelosuppression with concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) • Phenobarbital : Induces carmustine metabolism , reducing exposure .
May lead to reduced efficacy .
( 7 . 1 ) • Phenytoin : Carmustine for injection , USP may reduce the efficacy of phenytoin .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on carmustine for injection , USP Cimetidine : Greater myelosuppression ( e . g . , leukopenia and neutropenia ) has been reported when oral cimetidine has been coadministered with carmustine .
Consider alternative drugs to cimetidine .
Phenobarbital : Phenobarbital induces the metabolism of carmustine and may compromise antitumor activity of carmustine for injection , USP .
Consider alternative drugs to phenobarbital .
7 . 2 Effects of carmustine for injection , USP on Other Drugs Phenytoin : Carmustine for injection , USP when coadministered with phenytoin may reduce phenytoin serum concentrations .
Consider alternative drugs to phenytoin .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise lactating females not to breastfeed ( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Carmustine for injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman based on the mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] and findings in animals [ see Data ] .
Limited available data with carmustine for injection , USP use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
Carmustine was embryotoxic in rats and rabbits and teratogenic in rats ( thoracoabdominal closure , neural tube , and eye defects and malformations of the skeletal system of the fetus ) when given in doses lower than the maximum cumulative human dose based on body surface area .
Consider the benefits and risks of carmustine for injection , USP for the mother and possible risks to the fetus when prescribing carmustine for injection , USP to a pregnant woman .
Adverse outcomes in pregnancy occur regardless of the health of the mother or the use of medications .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Intraperitoneal ( IP ) administration of carmustine to pregnant rats 14 days prior to mating and during the period of organogenesis at cumulative doses ≥ 26 mg / kg ( 158 mg / m2 ) , approximately 0 . 1 times the maximum cumulative human dose of 1400 mg / m2 , resulted in pre - implantation loss , increased resorptions ( including completely resorbed litters ) , and reduced the number of live births in the presence of maternal toxicity .
Carmustine administered IP to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at cumulative doses ≥ 4 mg / kg ( 24 mg / m2 ) , approximately 0 . 02 times the maximum cumulative human dose based on a mg / m2 basis , resulted in reduced fetal weight and various malformations , which included thoracoabdominal closure defects , neural tube defects , and eye defects , including microphthalmia / anophthalmia , and skeletal anomalies in the skull , sternebra , vertebrae and ribs , and reduced skeletal ossification ) in the presence of maternal toxicity .
Embryo - fetal death was observed at cumulative doses ≥ 8 mg / kg ( 48 mg / m2 ) , approximately 0 . 03 times the maximum cumulative human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Intravenous ( IV ) administration of carmustine to rats at a cumulative dose of 50 mg / kg ( 300 mg / m2 ) , approximately 0 . 2 times the maximum cumulative human dose on a mg / m2 basis , during the last quarter of pregnancy resulted in the death of offspring within 4 months .
Carmustine administered IV to rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in spontaneous abortions in mothers and growth defects in the fetus , mainly at cumulative doses ≥ 13 mg / kg ( 156 mg / m2 ) , approximately 0 . 1 times the maximum cumulative human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of carmustine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse events ( e . g . , carcinogenicity and myelosuppression ) in nursing infants , nursing should be discontinued while taking carmustine for injection , USP .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Advise female patients to avoid pregnancy during treatment with carmustine for injection , USP because of the risk of fetal harm [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception during and for up to six months after completion of treatment .
Advise males with female sexual partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during carmustine for injection , USP treatment and for at least three months after the final dose of carmustine for injection , USP [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Based on nonclinical findings , male fertility may be compromised by treatment with carmustine for injection , USP [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Delayed onset pulmonary fibrosis occurring up to 17 years after treatment has been reported in a long - term study of patients who received carmustine for injection , USP in childhood and early adolescence ( 1 - 16 years ) .
Eight out of the 17 patients ( 47 % ) who survived childhood brain tumors , including all the 5 patients initially treated at less than 5 years of age , died of pulmonary fibrosis .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of carmustine for injection , USP did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dose range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Carmustine for injection , USP and its metabolites are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and renal function should be monitored .
10 OVERDOSAGE The main result of overdose is myeloablation .
No proven antidotes have been established for carmustine for injection , USP overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in carmustine for injection , USP is a nitrosourea with the chemical name 1 , 3 - bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) - 1 - nitrosourea and a molecular weight of 214 . 06 .
The drug product is supplied as sterile lyophilized pale yellow flakes or a congealed mass , and it is highly soluble in alcohol and lipids , and poorly soluble in water .
Carmustine for injection , USP is administered by intravenous infusion after reconstitution , as recommended .
The structural formula of carmustine is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carmustine for injection , USP is available in 100 - mg single dose vials of lyophilized material .
Sterile diluent for constitution of carmustine for injection , USP is co - packaged with the active drug product for use in constitution of the lyophile .
The diluent is supplied in a vial containing 3 mL of Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of carmustine is not fully understood .
While carmustine alkylates DNA and RNA , it is not cross - resistant with other alkylators .
As with other nitrosoureas , it may also inhibit several key enzymatic processes by carbamoylation of amino acids in proteins .
The metabolites may contribute to antitumor activity and toxicities of carmustine .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The exposure - response relationship for efficacy or safety is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Carmustine crosses the blood - brain barrier .
Levels of radioactivity in the CSF are greater than or equal to 50 % of those measured concurrently in plasma .
Elimination Following a short intravenous infusion , the reported elimination half - life ranges from 15 minutes to 75 minutes .
Metabolism Carmustine may be inactivated through denitrosation reactions catalyzed by both cytosolic and microsomal enzymes , including NADPH and glutathione - S - transferase .
Excretion Approximately 60 % to 70 % of a total dose is excreted in the urine within 96 hours .
Approximately 10 % is eliminated as respiratory CO2 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carmustine is carcinogenic in rats and mice , producing a marked increase in tumor incidence in doses approximating those employed clinically .
Nitrosourea therapy does have carcinogenic potential in humans [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Carmustine was mutagenic and clastogenic in multiple in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicology studies .
Male rats treated with carmustine at cumulative doses ≥ 36 mg / kg ( 216 mg / m2 ) , approximately 0 . 15 times the maximum cumulative human dose on a mg / m2 basis , showed decreases in reproductive potential when mated with untreated female rats ( e . g . , decreased implantations , increased resorption rate , and a decrease in viable fetuses ) .
15 REFERENCES • " OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Carmustine for injection , USP .
Each package includes a vial containing 100 mg carmustine and a vial containing 3 mL sterile diluent .
NDC 70710 - 1525 - 9 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store product and diluent in a refrigerator ( 2 ° - 8 ° C , 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
Stability Store the unopened vial of the dry drug in a refrigerator ( 2 ° - 8 ° C , 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
Store the diluent vials in a refrigerator ( 2 ° - 8 ° C , 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
The recommended storage of unopened carmustine for injection , USP vials provides a stable product for up to 3 Years .
Compatibility / Incompatibility with Containers The intravenous solution is unstable in polyvinyl chloride container .
DO NOT USE PVC Containers .
Administer carmustine for injection , USP solution from the glass bottles or polypropylene container only .
Ensure the polypropylene containers used are PVC free and DEHP free .
Important Note Carmustine for injection , USP has a low melting point ( 30 . 5 ° - 32 . 0 ° C or 86 . 9 ° - 89 . 6 ° F ) .
Exposure of the drug to this temperature or above will cause the drug to liquefy and appear as an oil film on the vials .
This is a sign of decomposition and vials should be discarded .
If there is a question of adequate refrigeration upon receipt of this product , immediately inspect the vial in each individual carton .
Hold the vial to a bright light for inspection .
The carmustine for injection , USP will appear as a very small amount of dry flakes or dry congealed mass .
If this is evident , the carmustine for injection , USP is suitable for use and should be refrigerated immediately .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
A serious and frequent toxicity of carmustine for injection , USP is delayed myelosuppression and usually occurs 4 to 6 weeks after drug administration .
Hence , patients should be advised to get blood counts monitored weekly for at least 6 weeks .
The bone marrow toxicity of carmustine for injection , USP is cumulative .
Pulmonary Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to contact a health care professional immediately for any of the following : shortness of breath , particularly during exercise , dry , hacking cough , fast , shallow breathing , gradual unintended weight loss , tiredness , aching joints and muscles , clubbing ( widening and rounding ) of the tips of the fingers or toes .
Seizures [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] Inform the patient that they may suffer from fits and advise them to get medical attention immediately in such cases .
Pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) ] Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential that carmustine for injection , USP exposure during pregnancy can result in fetal harm .
Advise female patients to contact their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy .
Advise women of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment .
Lactation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] Advise the female patient to discontinue nursing while taking carmustine for injection , USP .
Please refer the product information leaflet before administration .
For more information call Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at + 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 .
Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev : 07 / 2019 30140518 R8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - diluent label NDC 70710 - 1523 - 1 Rx only Dehydrated Alcohol Injection , USP 3 mL Sterile Diluent for carmustine for injection , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70710 - 1524 - 1 Carmustine for injection , USP 100 mg per vial For intravenous infusion after reconstitution REFRIGERATE IMMEDIATELY Single Dose Vial – Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70710 - 1525 - 9 Rx only Carmustine for injection , USP 100 mg per vial Each carton contains : 1 vial carmustine for injection , USP 100 mg , 1 vial Sterile Diluent for carmustine for injection , USP 3 mL For intravenous infusion after reconstitution REFRIGERATE IMMEDIATELY Single Dose Vial - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
