Drug Facts Active Ingredients Patch : Salicylic Acid 0 . 5 % Serum : Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses • For the treatment of acne Other • Store between 15 C - 30 C Warnings For external use only When Using This Product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only one medication should be used .
• Do not use if you are allergic to the dressing or any of its components .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Patch : For products applied to and left on the skin : • Cleanse thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with one dot • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times a daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or even every other day • Sensitivity Test for a New User : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated above .
Serum : For products applied to and left on the skin : • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • Sensitivity Test for a New User : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated above .
Inactive Ingredients Patch : Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Extract , Retinyl Acetate Patch : Hydrocolloid Polymer Technology Serum : Water / Aqua / Eau , Propanediol , Triheptanoin , Coco - Caprylate / Caprate , Niacinamide , Salicylic Acid , Isopentyldiol , Sodium Polyacryloyldimethyl Taurate , Zinc PCA , 3 - O - Ethyl Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Hyaluronate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf , Trifolium Pratense ( Clover ) Flower Extract , Centella Asiatica Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Potassium Azeloyl Diglycinate , Saccharide Isomerate , Cetearyl Olivate , Glycerin , Sorbitan Olivate , Dilinoleic Acid / Butanediol Copolymer , Decyl Glucoside , Caprylyl Glycol , Trisodium Ethylenediamine Disuccinate , Castor Oil / IPDI Copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Sodium Hydroxide , Ethylhexylglycerin Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 268 - 1962 M - F 9 AM to 6 PM PST Company Information Distributed by : Peace Out Inc .
San Francisco , CA 94103 USA Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
