DESCRIPTION Sucralfate is an α - D - glucopyranoside , β - D - fructofuranosyl - , octakis - ( hydrogen sulfate ) , aluminum complex .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tablets for oral administration contain 1 g of sucralfate , USP .
Also contain : povidone , magnesium stearate , and colloidal silicon dioxide .
Therapeutic category : antiulcer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The small amounts of the sulfated disaccharide that are absorbed are excreted primarily in the urine .
Although the mechanism of sucralfate ’ s ability to accelerate healing of duodenal ulcers remains to be fully defined , it is known that it exerts its effect through a local , rather than systemic , action .
The following observations also appear pertinent : • Studies in human subjects and with animal models of ulcer disease have shown that sucralfate forms an ulcer - adherent complex with proteinaceous exudate at the ulcer site .
• In vitro , a sucralfate - albumin film provides a barrier to diffusion of hydrogen ions .
• In human subjects , sucralfate given in doses recommended for ulcer therapy inhibits pepsin activity in gastric juice by 32 % .
• In vitro , sucralfate adsorbs bile salts .
These observations suggest that sucralfate ’ s antiulcer activity is the result of formation of an ulcer adherent complex that covers the ulcer site and protects it against further attack by acid , pepsin , and bile salts .
There are approximately 14 to 16 mEq of acid - neutralizing capacity per 1 g dose of sucralfate .
Clinical Trials Acute Duodenal Ulcer Over 600 patients have participated in well - controlled clinical trials worldwide .
Multicenter trials conducted in the United States , both of them placebo - controlled studies with endoscopic evaluation at 2 and 4 weeks , showed : STUDY 1 Treatment Groups Ulcer Healing / No .
Patients 2 wk 4 wk ( Overall ) Sucralfate 37 / 105 ( 35 . 2 % ) 82 / 109 ( 75 . 2 % ) Placebo 26 / 106 ( 24 . 5 % ) 68 / 107 ( 63 . 6 % ) STUDY 2 Treatment Groups Ulcer Healing / No .
Patients 2 wk 4 wk ( Overall ) Sucralfate 8 / 24 ( 33 % ) 22 / 24 ( 92 % ) Placebo 4 / 31 ( 13 % ) 18 / 31 ( 58 % ) The sucralfate - placebo differences were statistically significant in both studies at 4 weeks but not at 2 weeks .
The poorer result in the first study may have occurred because sucralfate was given 2 hours after meals and at bedtime rather than 1 hour before meals and at bedtime , the regimen used in international studies and in the second United States study .
In addition , in the first study liquid antacid was utilized as needed , whereas in the second study antacid tablets were used .
Maintenance Therapy After Healing of Duodenal Ulcer Two double - blind randomized placebo - controlled U . S . multicenter trials have demonstrated that sucralfate ( 1 g bid ) is effective as maintenance therapy following healing of duodenal ulcers .
In one study , endoscopies were performed monthly for 4 months .
Of the 254 patients who enrolled , 239 were analyzed in the intention - to - treat life table analysis presented below .
Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rate ( % ) Drug Months of Therapy n 1 2 3 4 Sucralfate 122 20 * 30 * 38 † 42 † Placebo 117 33 46 55 63 * P < 0 . 05 , † P < 0 . 01 In this study , prn antacids were not permitted .
In the other study , scheduled endoscopies were performed at 6 and 12 months , but for - cause endoscopies were permitted as symptoms dictated .
Median symptom scores between the sucralfate and placebo groups were not significantly different .
A life table intention - to - treat analysis for the 94 patients enrolled in the trial had the following results : Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rate ( % ) Drug n 6 months 12 months Sucralfate 48 19 * 27 * Placebo 46 54 65 * P < 0 . 002 In this study , prn antacids were permitted .
Data from placebo - controlled studies longer than 1 year are not available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucralfate tablets are indicated in : • Short - term treatment ( up to 8 weeks ) of active duodenal ulcer .
While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x - ray or endoscopic examination .
• Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of acute ulcers .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sucralfate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients .
PRECAUTIONS The physician should read the " PRECAUTIONS " section when considering the use of this drug in pregnant or pediatric patients , or patients of childbearing potential .
Duodenal ulcer is a chronic , recurrent disease .
While short - term treatment with sucralfate can result in complete healing of the ulcer , a successful course of treatment with sucralfate should not be expected to alter the post healing frequency or severity of duodenal ulceration .
Isolated reports of sucralfate tablet aspiration with accompanying respiratory complications have been received .
Therefore , sucralfate tablets should be used with caution by patients who have known conditions that may impair swallowing , such as recent or prolonged intubation , tracheostomy , prior history of aspiration , dysphagia , or any other conditions that may alter gag and cough reflexes , or diminish oropharyngeal coordination or motility .
Special Populations : Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients When sucralfate is administered orally , small amounts of aluminum are absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Concomitant use of sucralfate with other products that contain aluminum , such as aluminum - containing antacids , may increase the total body burden of aluminum .
Patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended doses of sucralfate and aluminum - containing products adequately excrete aluminum in the urine .
Patients with chronic renal failure or those receiving dialysis have impaired excretion of absorbed aluminum .
In addition , aluminum does not cross dialysis membranes because it is bound to albumin and transferrin plasma proteins .
Aluminum accumulation and toxicity ( aluminum osteodystrophy , osteomalacia , encephalopathy ) have been described in patients with renal impairment .
Sucralfate should be used with caution in patients with chronic renal failure .
Drug Interactions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption ( bioavailability ) of single doses of the following : cimetidine , digoxin , fluoroquinolone antibiotics , ketoconazole , l - thyroxine , phenytoin , quinidine , ranitidine , tetracycline , and theophylline .
Subtherapeutic prothrombin times with concomitant warfarin and sucralfate therapy have been reported in spontaneous and published case reports .
However , two clinical studies have demonstrated no change in either serum warfarin concentration or prothrombin time with the addition of sucralfate to chronic warfarin therapy .
The mechanism of these interactions appears to be nonsystemic in nature , presumably resulting from sucralfate binding to the concomitant agent in the gastrointestinal tract .
In all case studies to date ( cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , digoxin , norfloxacin , ofloxacin , and ranitidine ) , dosing the concomitant medication 2 hours before sucralfate eliminated the interaction .
Because of the potential of Sucralfate to alter the absorption of some drugs , Sucralfate tablets should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical .
In these cases , patients should be monitored appropriately .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic oral toxicity studies of 24 months ’ duration were conducted in mice and rats at doses up to 1 g / kg ( 12 times the human dose ) .
There was no evidence of drug - related tumorigenicity .
A reproduction study in rats at doses up to 38 times the human dose did not reveal any indication of fertility impairment .
Mutagenicity studies were not conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Teratogenicity studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 50 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to sucralfate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when sucralfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of sucralfate tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function ( See PRECAUTIONS Special Populations : Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients ) .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to sucralfate in clinical trials were minor and only rarely led to discontinuation of the drug .
In studies involving over 2700 patients treated with sucralfate tablets , adverse effects were reported in 129 ( 4 . 7 % ) .
Constipation was the most frequent complaint ( 2 % ) .
Other adverse effects reported in less than 0 . 5 % of the patients are listed below by body system : Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , gastric discomfort , indigestion , flatulence , dry mouth Dermatological : pruritus , rash Nervous System : dizziness , insomnia , sleepiness , vertigo Other : back pain , headache Post - marketing : cases of hypersensitivity have been reported with the use of sucralfate tablets , including dyspnea , lip swelling , pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Cases of anaphylactic reactions , bronchospasm , laryngeal edema , edema of the mouth , pharyngeal edema , respiratory tract edema and swelling of the face have been reported with an unknown oral formulation of sucralfate .
Bezoars have been reported in patients treated with sucralfate .
The majority of patients had underlying medical conditions that may predispose to bezoar formation ( such as delayed gastric emptying ) or were receiving concomitant enteral tube feedings .
Inadvertent injection of insoluble sucralfate and its insoluble excipients has led to fatal complications , including pulmonary and cerebral emboli .
Sucralfate is not intended for intravenous administration .
OVERDOSAGE Due to limited experience in humans with overdosage of sucralfate , no specific treatment recommendations can be given .
Acute oral toxicity studies in animals , however , using doses up to 12 g / kg body weight , could not find a lethal dose .
Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Risks associated with acute overdosage should , therefore , be minimal .
In rare reports describing sucralfate overdose , most patients remained asymptomatic .
Those few reports where adverse events were described included symptoms of dyspepsia , abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer .
The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 g four times per day on an empty stomach .
Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one - half hour before or after sucralfate .
While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x - ray or endoscopic examination .
Maintenance Therapy : The recommended adult oral dosage is 1 g twice a day .
Elderly : In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( See PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Chartwell RX , LLC .
at 845 - 232 - 1683 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
HOW SUPPLIED Sucralfate 1 g tablets , USP are supplied in bottles of 90 .
White , oblong , bisected tablets debossed with " N '' and '' S1 '' on one side .
Bottles of 90 ...........
NDC 62135 - 436 - 90 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Chartwell RX , LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 L71148 Rev . 11 / 2022 Rx Only PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Sucralfate Tablet , USP 1 Gram - NDC - 62135 - 436 - 90 - 90 ' s - Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
