Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % benzethonium Chloride 0 . 25 % Purpose External Analgesic and First Aid Antiseptic Uses • Can be used instead of soap and water to help clean minor cuts , scrapes , and burns • For the temporary relief of discomfort and pain associated with dermal procedures such as tattoo removal , dermarolling , electrolysis , microblading , and piercing • Temporarily relieves pain and itch while helping to prevent infection .
Warnings • For external use only • avoid contact with eyes Do not use • do not use in large quantities particularly over raw surfaces or blistered area • do not exceed the recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor • in the eyes or apply over large areas of body • longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns Stop the use and consult doctor if : • condition worsenss or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within few days .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Use Dr . Numb ® Topical Anesthetic Foam Soap to cleanse the targeted area .
• Shake well before each use .
• Apply 2 to 3 pumps of foam soap andgently rub into the skin .
Leave it onfor 5 to 10 minutes .
Rinse off gentlywith running water or wipe with cleanpaper towel .
• Use before , during andafter the procedure .
• Make sure tocover the bottle tightly when not inuse , otherwise , the anesthetic effect will be lessened .
Adults and children two years old and older : Use to clean minor cuts , scrapes , and burns by thoroughly washing with water .
Rinse and air dry .
Use no more than three times daily .
Children under two years of age , ask a doctor .
Other information • Store at controlled room temperature 59 0 - 86 0 F ( 15 0 - 30 0 C ) • Do not expose to temperature above 120 0 F ( 49 0 C ) • Protect from freezing Inactive Ingredients Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Benzyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Lauramidopropyl Betaine , Leuconostoc / Radish Root Ferment Filtrate , Menthoxypropanediol , Phenoxyethanol , Selaginella Lepidophylla Extract , Sodium Hydroxide , Water .
Question or comments ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 6 PM PST at 1 - 877 - 786 - 2001 or email us at support @ drnumb . com Principal Display Panel NDC 69903 - 002 - 50 Dr . Numb TOPICAL ANESTHETIC FOAM SOAP 4 % LIDOCAINE 0 . 25 % BENZETHONIUM CHLORIDE DISINFECT DESENSITIZE and RELAX 1 . 7 oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
