1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PHOSLYRA ® is indicated as an adjunct to reduction in dietary intake of phosphate and dialysis to reduce serum phosphorus in patients with kidney failure on dialysis .
• PHOSLYRA is a phosphate binder indicated as an adjunct to reduction in dietary intake of phosphate and dialysis to reduce serum phosphorus in patients with kidney failure on dialysis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose of PHOSLYRA for the adult dialysis patient is 10 mL with each meal .
Increase the dose gradually to lower serum phosphorus levels to the target range , as long as hypercalcemia does not develop .
Titrate the dose every 2 to 3 weeks until an acceptable serum phosphorus level is reached .
Most patients require 15 – 20 mL with each meal .
• Starting dose is 10 mL with each meal .
( 2 ) • Titrate the dose every 2 to 3 weeks until an acceptable serum phosphorus level is reached .
Most patients require 15 to 20 mL with each meal .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral Solution : 667 mg calcium acetate per 5 mL .
• Oral Solution : 667 mg calcium acetate per 5 mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with hypercalcemia .
• Hypercalcemia .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Treat mild hypercalcemia by reducing or interrupting PHOSLYRA and Vitamin D . Severe hypercalcemia may require hemodialysis and discontinuation of PHOSLYRA .
( 5 . 1 ) • May cause diarrhea with nutritional supplements that contain maltitol ( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hypercalcemia Patients with kidney failure on dialysis may develop hypercalcemia when treated with calcium , including calcium acetate ( PHOSLYRA ) .
Avoid the concurrent use of calcium supplements , including calcium - based nonprescription antacids , with PHOSLYRA .
An overdose of PHOSLYRA may lead to progressive hypercalcemia , which may require emergency measures .
Therefore , early in the treatment phase during the dosage adjustment period , monitor serum calcium levels twice weekly .
Should hypercalcemia develop , reduce the PHOSLYRA dosage or discontinue the treatment , depending on the severity of hypercalcemia .
More severe hypercalcemia ( Ca > 12 mg / dL ) is associated with confusion , delirium , stupor and coma .
Severe hypercalcemia can be treated by acute hemodialysis and discontinuing PHOSLYRA therapy .
Mild hypercalcemia ( 10 . 5 to 11 . 9 mg / dL ) may be asymptomatic or manifest as constipation , anorexia , nausea , and vomiting .
Mild hypercalcemia is usually controlled by reducing the PHOSLYRA dose or temporarily discontinuing therapy .
Decreasing or discontinuing Vitamin D therapy is recommended as well .
Chronic hypercalcemia may lead to vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
Radiographic evaluation of suspected anatomical regions may be helpful in early detection of soft tissue calcification .
The long - term effect of PHOSLYRA on the progression of vascular or soft tissue calcification has not been determined .
Hypercalcemia ( > 11 mg / dL ) was reported in 16 % of patients in a 3 - month study of a solid dose formulation of calcium acetate ; all cases resolved upon lowering the dose or discontinuing treatment .
5 . 2 Concomitant Use with Medications Hypercalcemia may aggravate digitalis toxicity .
PHOSLYRA contains maltitol ( 1 g per 5 mL ) and may induce a laxative effect , especially if taken with other products containing maltitol .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS No clinical trials have been performed with PHOSLYRA in the intended population .
Because the dose and active ingredients of PHOSLYRA are equivalent to that of the calcium acetate gelcaps or tablets , the scope of the adverse reactions is anticipated to be similar .
Hypercalcemia is discussed elsewhere [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• The most common ( > 10 % ) adverse reactions are hypercalcemia , nausea , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Medical Care North America at 1 - 800 - 323 - 5188 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In clinical studies , calcium acetate has been generally well tolerated .
The solid dose formulation of calcium acetate was studied in two clinical trials : a 3 - month , openlabel , non - randomized study with 98 kidney failure patients on hemodialysis ( HD ) ; and in a 2 week , double - blind , placebo - controlled , cross - over clinical trial with 69 kidney failure patients on HD .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in Kidney Failure Patients on Hemodialysis Preferred Term Total adverse reactions reported for calcium acetate n = 167 n ( % ) 3 - mo , openlabel study of calcium acetate n = 98 n ( % ) Double - blind , placebo - controlled , cross - over study of calcium acetate n = 69 Calcium acetate n ( % ) Placebo n ( % ) Nausea 6 ( 3 . 6 ) 6 ( 6 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Vomiting 4 ( 2 . 4 ) 4 ( 4 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Hypercalcemia 21 ( 12 . 6 ) 16 ( 16 . 3 ) 5 ( 7 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Calcium acetate oral solution was studied in a randomized , controlled , 3 - arm , open label , crossover , single - dose study comparing calcium acetate oral solution to a solid formulation in healthy volunteers on a controlled diet .
Of the observed drug - related adverse reactions , diarrhea ( 5 / 38 , 13 . 2 % ) was more common with the oral solution .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval of calcium acetate : dizziness , edema , and weakness .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral drugs that have to be separated from Phoslyra Dosing Recommendations Flouroquinolones Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after Phoslyra Tetracyclines Take at least 1 hour before Phoslyra Levothyroxine Take at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after Phoslyra • PHOSLYRA may decrease the bioavailability of tetracyclines fluoroquinolones or levothyroxine .
( 7 ) • When clinically significant drug interactions are expected , separate dosing from PHOSLYRA , or consider monitoring blood levels of the drug .
( 7 ) Oral medications not listed in the Table There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between Phoslyra and most concomitant oral drugs .
For oral medications where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy , consider separation of the timing of the administration of the two drugs .
The duration of separation depends upon the absorption characteristics of the medication concomitantly administered , such as the time to reach peak systemic levels and whether the drug is an immediate release or an extended release product .
Consider monitoring clinical responses or blood levels of concomitant medications that have a narrow therapeutic range .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Administration of the recommended dose of PHOSLYRA is not expected to cause major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Patients with kidney failure on dialysis may develop hypercalcemia with calcium acetate treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] and [ Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Maintenance of normal serum calcium levels is important for maternal and fetal wellbeing .
There are adverse effects on maternal and fetal outcomes associated with kidney failure on dialysis in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PHOSLYRA .
Clinical Consideration Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Pregnancies that occur in women with kidney failure on dialysis are associated with a high rate of complications , including increased maternal mortality , hypertension , preeclampsia , anemia , intrauterine growth restriction , preterm delivery , and still birth .
Maternal and Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Hypercalcemia during pregnancy may increase the risk for maternal and neonatal complications such as stillbirth , preterm delivery , and neonatal hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism .
Monitor maternal serum calcium levels to maintain normal serum calcium .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Calcium and acetate are excreted in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of calcium acetate on the concentration of calcium or acetate in milk , the effect on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of PHOSLYRA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of calcium acetate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Administration of PHOSLYRA in excess of the appropriate daily dosage may result in hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION PHOSLYRA acts as a phosphate binder .
Its chemical name is calcium acetate .
Its molecular formula is C 4 H 6 CaO 4 , and its molecular weight is 158 . 17 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PHOSLYRA for oral administration is provided as pale to light greenish - yellow clear liquid .
Each 5 mL of PHOSLYRA contains 667 mg calcium acetate , USP equal to 169 mg ( 8 . 45 mEq ) calcium .
PHOSLYRA also contains the following inactive ingredients : maltitol NF , glycerin USP , Magnasweet 110 , propylene glycol USP , povidone K25 USP , sucralose NF , methylparaben NF , artificial black cherry flavor , menthol flavor , purified water USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Calcium acetate , when taken with meals , combines with dietary phosphate to form an insoluble calcium - phosphate complex , which is excreted in the feces , resulting in decreased serum phosphorus concentrations .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Orally administered calcium acetate from pharmaceutical dosage forms is systemically absorbed up to approximately 40 % under fasting conditions and up to approximately 30 % under nonfasting conditions .
This range represents data from both healthy subjects and renal dialysis patients under various conditions .
A randomized , 3 - arm , open - label , cross - over study in healthy volunteers evaluated the bioavailability of PHOSLYRA compared to calcium acetate gelcaps .
Each subject received ~ 1000 mg elemental calcium from each dose of the following study medications : 30 mL PHOSLYRA ( test ) , 6 calcium acetate gelcaps ( reference ) , or 5 calcium citrate caplets ( positive control ) in three periods .
The study medications were administered three times per day with meals from Day 0 through Day 2 and one morning dose on Day 3 of each period .
Treatment ( baseline - subtracted ) related changes ( AUC and C max ) in serum calcium and phosphorus assessed over the 6 hours following dosing were similar for PHOSLYRA and calcium acetate gelcaps .
Urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorus were not significantly increased with PHOSLYRA compared to calcium acetate gelcaps .
12 . 3 Pharmcokinetics Drug Interactions In vivo In a study of 15 healthy subjects , a co - administered single dose of 4 calcium acetate tablets ( approximately 2 . 7 g ) decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50 % .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or fertility studies have been conducted with calcium acetate .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Effectiveness of calcium acetate in decreasing serum phosphorus has been demonstrated in two studies of the solid dosage form .
Ninety - one patients with kidney failure who were undergoing hemodialysis and were hyperphosphatemic ( serum phosphorus > 5 . 5 mg / dL ) following a 1 - week phosphate binder washout period contributed efficacy data to an open - label , non - randomized study .
The patients received calcium acetate 667 mg tablets at each meal for a period of 12 weeks .
The initial starting dose was 2 tablets per meal for 3 meals a day , and the dose was adjusted as necessary to control serum phosphorus levels .
The average final dose after 12 weeks of treatment was 3 . 4 tablets per meal .
Although there was a decrease in serum phosphorus , in the absence of a control group the true magnitude of effect is uncertain .
The data presented in Table 2 demonstrate the efficacy of calcium acetate in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in kidney failure on patients on Hemodialysis .
The effects on serum calcium levels are also presented .
Table 2 : Average Serum Phosphorus and Calcium Levels at Pre - Study , Interim , and Study Completion Time points a Values expressed as mean ± SE .
b Ninety - one patients completed at least 6 weeks of the study .
c ANOVA of difference in values at pre - study and study completion .
Parameter Pre - Study Week 4 b Week 8 Week 12 p - valuec Phosphorus ( mg / dL ) a 7 . 4 ± 0 . 17 5 . 9 ± 0 . 16 5 . 6 ± 0 . 17 5 . 2 ± 0 . 17 ≤ 0 . 01 Calcium ( mg / dL ) a 8 . 9 ± 0 . 09 9 . 5 ± 0 . 10 9 . 7 ± 0 . 10 9 . 7 ± 0 . 10 ≤ 0 . 01 There was a 30 % decrease in serum phosphorus levels during the 12 week study period ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Two - thirds of the decline occurred in the first month of the study .
Serum calcium increased 9 % during the study mostly in the first month of the study .
Treatment with the phosphate binder was discontinued for patients from the open - label study , and those patients whose serum phosphorus exceeded 5 . 5 mg / dL were eligible for entry into a double - blind , placebo - controlled , cross - over study .
Patients were randomized to receive calcium acetate or placebo , and each continued to receive the same number of tablets as had been individually established during the previous study .
Following 2 weeks of treatment , patients switched to the alternative therapy for an additional 2 weeks .
The phosphate binding effect of calcium acetate is shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Serum Phosphorus and Calcium Levels at Study Initiation and After Completion of Each Treatment Arm a Values expressed as mean ± SEM b ANOVA of calcium acetate vs . placebo after 2 weeks of treatment .
Parameter Pre - Study Post - Treatment p - valueb Calcium Acetate Placebo Phosphorus ( mg / dL ) a 7 . 3 ± 0 . 18 5 . 9 ± 0 . 24 7 . 8 ± 0 . 22 < 0 . 01 Calcium ( mg / dL ) a 8 . 9 ± 0 . 11 9 . 5 ± 0 . 13 8 . 8 ± 0 . 12 < 0 . 01 Overall , 2 weeks of treatment with calcium acetate statistically significantly ( p < 0 . 01 ) decreased serum phosphorus by a mean of 19 % and increased serum calcium by a statistically significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) but clinically unimportant mean of 7 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PHOSLYRA for oral administration is a clear solution containing 667 mg calcium acetate per 5 mL .
PHOSLYRA is supplied in amber - colored , multiple - dose bottles , packaged with a marked dosing cup in the following size : 473 mL ( 16 fl .
oz ) bottle .................................................................................
( NDC 49230 - 643 - 31 ) Storage : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The shelf life is 36 months .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients to take PHOSLYRA with meals , adhere to their prescribed diets , and avoid the use of calcium supplements including nonprescription antacids .
Inform patients about the symptoms of hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients who are taking an oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy to take the drug one hour before or three hours after PHOSLYRA .
Manufactured for : Fresenius Medical Care North America Waltham , MA 02451 1 - 800 - 323 - 5188 Manufactured by : Lyne Laboratories Brockton , MA 02301 1 - 800 - 525 - 0450 © 2011 - 2020 Fresenius Medical Care North America .
All Rights Reserved .
101087 .
D [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 16 oz Carton Label NDC 49230 - 643 - 31 Rx only Phoslyra ® calcium acetate oral solution 667 mg per 5 mL For oral administration only Only use the provided dosing cup with Phoslyra 473 mL ( 16 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
