1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Velphoro is indicated for the control of serum phosphorus levels in patients with chronic kidney disease on dialysis .
Velphoro is a phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus levels in patients with chronic kidney disease on dialysis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Velphoro chewable tablets should be chewed or crushed .
Do not swallow whole .
• Chew or crush Velphoro tablets , do not swallow whole .
( 2 ) • The recommended starting dose of Velphoro is 3 tablets ( 1 , 500 mg ) per day , administered as 1 tablet ( 500 mg ) 3 times daily with meals .
( 2 ) • Adjust by 1 tablet per day as needed until an acceptable serum phosphorus level is reached , with regular monitoring afterwards .
Titrate as often as weekly .
( 2 ) Starting Dose The recommended starting dose of Velphoro is 3 tablets ( 1 , 500 mg ) per day , administered as 1 tablet ( 500 mg ) 3 times daily with meals .
Titration and Maintenance Monitor serum phosphorus levels and titrate the dose of Velphoro in decrements or increments of 500 mg ( 1 tablet ) per day as needed until an acceptable serum phosphorus level is reached , with regular monitoring afterwards .
Titrate as often as weekly .
Based on clinical studies , on average patients required 3 to 4 tablets ( 1 , 500 mg to 2 , 000 mg ) a day to control serum phosphorus levels .
The highest daily dose studied in a Phase 3 clinical trial in ESRD patients was 6 tablets ( 3 , 000 mg ) per day .
Administration Velphoro must be administered with meals .
To maximize the dietary phosphate binding , distribute the total daily dose among meals .
No additional fluid above the amount usually taken by the patient is required .
If one or more doses of Velphoro are missed , the medication should be resumed with the next meal .
Do not attempt to replace a missed dose .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Velphoro is supplied in a strength of 500 mg as a brown , circular , bi - planar chewable tablet embossed with “ PA 500 ” on one side .
Each chewable tablet contains 500 mg iron ( equivalent to 2 , 500 mg sucroferric oxyhydroxide ) .
• Velphoro chewable tablet 500 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Patients with peritonitis during peritoneal dialysis , significant gastric or hepatic disorders , history of recent major gastrointestinal surgery , or with a history of hemochromatosis or other diseases with iron accumulation have not been included in clinical studies with Velphoro .
Monitor effect and iron homeostasis in such patients .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Monitoring in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders or Iron Accumulation Disorders Each chewable tablet contains 500 mg iron ( equivalent to 2 , 500 mg sucroferric oxyhydroxide ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with peritonitis during peritoneal dialysis , significant gastric or hepatic disorders , following major gastrointestinal ( GI ) surgery , or with a history of hemochromatosis or other diseases with iron accumulation have not been included in clinical studies with Velphoro .
Monitor effect and iron homeostasis in such patients .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • The most common adverse drug reactions to Velphoro chewable tablets in clinical trials were discolored feces ( 12 % ) and diarrhea ( 6 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Medical Care North America at 1 - 800 - 323 - 5188 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data derived from Velphoro clinical trials reflect exposure to Velphoro in 2 active - controlled clinical studies involving a total of 778 patients on hemodialysis and 57 patients on peritoneal dialysis exposed for up to 55 weeks .
Dosage regimens ranged from 250 mg to 3 , 000 mg per day .
In a parallel design , dose - finding study of Velphoro with a treatment duration of 6 weeks in hemodialysis patients , adverse reactions for Velphoro ( N = 128 ) were similar to those reported for the active - control group ( sevelamer hydrochloride ) ( N = 26 ) , with the exception of discolored feces ( 12 % ) which did not occur in the active - control group .
Diarrhea was reported in 6 % of patients treated with Velphoro .
In a 55 - week , open - label , active - controlled , parallel design , safety and efficacy study involving 968 hemodialysis patients and 86 peritoneal dialysis patients treated with either Velphoro ( N = 707 including 57 peritoneal dialysis patients ) or the active - control ( sevelamer carbonate ) ( N = 348 including 29 peritoneal dialysis patients ) , adverse reactions occurring in more than 5 % in the Velphoro group were diarrhea ( 24 % ) , discolored feces ( 16 % ) , and nausea ( 10 % ) .
The majority of diarrhea events in the Velphoro group were mild and transient , occurring soon after initiation of treatment , and resolving with continued treatment .
Adverse reactions occurred at similar rates in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients .
The most common adverse reactions ( > 1 % ) leading to withdrawal were diarrhea ( 4 % ) , product taste abnormal ( 2 % ) , and nausea ( 2 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Velphoro that are not included in other sections of labeling .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : tooth discoloration Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorder : rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 Oral drugs that can be administered concomitantly with Velphoro Calcitriol Ciprofloxacin Digoxin Enalapril Furosemide HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors Hydrochlorothiazide Losartan Metoprolol Nifedipine Omeprazole Quinidine Warfarin Oral drugs that are to be separated from Velphoro Dosing Recommendations Doxycycline Acetylsalicylic acid Cephalexin Take at least 1 hour before Velphoro .
Levothyroxine Take at least 4 hours before Velphoro • Velphoro can be administered concomitantly with oral calcitriol , ciprofloxacin , digoxin , enalapril , furosemide , HMG ‑ CoA reductase inhibitors , hydrochlorothiazide , losartan , metoprolol , nifedipine , omeprazole , quinidine and warfarin .
( 7 ) • Take acetylsalicylic acid , cephalexin and doxycycline at least 1 hour before Velphoro .
( 7 ) • Take levothyroxine at least 4 hours before Velphoro .
( 7 ) • For oral medications not listed above where a reduction of bioavailability would be clinically significant consider separation of the timing of administration .
Consider monitoring clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication ( 7 ) Oral medications not listed in Table 1 There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between Velphoro and most concomitant oral drugs .
For oral medications where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy , consider separating the administration of the two drugs .
The necessary separation depends upon the absorption characteristics of the medication concomitantly administered , such as the time to reach peak systemic levels and whether the drug is an immediate release or an extended release product .
Where possible , consider monitoring for clinical response and / or blood levels of concomitant medications that have a narrow therapeutic range .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Velphoro is not systemically absorbed following oral administration and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
Data Animal Data In pregnant rats given up to 800 mg / kg / day Velphoro by oral gavage from Days 6 to 17 post - mating , no embryo - fetal development toxicity was observed .
This dose corresponds to 16 times the maximum recommended clinical dose .
In pregnant rabbits given 50 , 100 or 200 mg / kg / day Velphoro by oral gavage , from Days 6 to 19 post - mating , the number of fetuses with incomplete / unossified epiphyses and metacarpals / phalanges was increased at the highest dose ( corresponding to 4 times the recommended maximum clinical dose ) .
Litter parameters were not adversely affected .
In pregnant rats given Velphoro at 100 , 280 , or 800 mg / kg / day by oral gavage from Day 6 post - mating to lactation Day 20 , offspring body weight gain was lower at age 5 - 13 weeks and neuromuscular function was delayed at the dose of 800 mg / kg / day .
This dose represented 16 times the maximum recommended clinical dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Velphoro is not absorbed systemically following oral administration and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the child to Velphoro .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Velphoro have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in two active - controlled clinical studies of Velphoro ( N = 835 ) , 29 . 7 % ( n = 248 ) were 65 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no reports of overdosage with Velphoro in patients .
Since the absorption of iron from Velphoro is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , the risk of systemic iron toxicity is low .
Hypophosphatemia should be treated by standard clinical practice .
Velphoro has been studied in doses up to 3 , 000 mg per day .
11 DESCRIPTION Velphoro is a phosphate binder supplied as chewable tablets for oral use , which are brown , circular , bi - planar , and are embossed with “ PA 500 ” on 1 side .
Each tablet of Velphoro contains 500 mg iron ( in 2 , 500 mg sucroferric oxyhydroxide .
The Velphoro drug substance is a mixture of polynuclear iron ( III ) - oxyhydroxide , sucrose , and starches .
One tablet is equivalent to approximately 1 . 4 g of carbohydrates ( 750 mg sucrose and 700 mg starches ) .
The active moiety , polynuclear iron ( III ) - oxyhydroxide , is practically insoluble and cannot be absorbed .
The inactive ingredients are berry flavor , neohesperidin dihydrochalcone , magnesium stearate , and silica ( colloidal , anhydrous ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In the aqueous environment of the GI tract , phosphate binding takes place by ligand exchange between hydroxyl groups and / or water in sucroferric oxyhydroxide and the phosphate in the diet .
The bound phosphate is eliminated with feces .
Both serum phosphorus levels and calcium - phosphorus product levels are reduced as a consequence of the reduced dietary phosphate absorption .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In vitro studies have demonstrated a robust phosphate binding capacity of Velphoro over the physiologically relevant pH range of the GI tract ( 1 . 2 - 7 . 5 ) .
The phosphate binding capacity of Velphoro peaked at pH 2 . 5 , resulting in 96 % of the available phosphate being adsorbed ( phosphorus : iron concentration ratio 0 . 4 : 1 ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The active moiety of Velphoro , polynuclear iron ( III ) - oxyhydroxide ( pn - FeOOH ) , is practically insoluble and therefore not absorbed and not metabolized .
Its degradation product , mononuclear iron species , can however be released from the surface of pn - FeOOH and be absorbed .
Because of the insolubility and degradation characteristics of Velphoro , no classical pharmacokinetic studies can be carried out .
The sucrose and starch components of Velphoro can be digested to glucose and fructose , and maltose and glucose , respectively .
These compounds can be absorbed in the blood .
The iron uptake from radiolabeled Velphoro drug substance , 2 , 000 mg in 1 day , was investigated in 16 chronic kidney disease patients ( 8 pre - dialysis and 8 hemodialysis patients ) and 8 healthy volunteers with low iron stores ( serum ferritin < 100 mcg / L ) .
In healthy subjects , the median uptake of radiolabeled iron in the blood was 0 . 43 % on Day 21 .
In chronic kidney disease patients , the median uptake was much less , 0 . 04 % on Day 21 .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro In vitro interactions were studied in aqueous solutions which mimic the physico - chemical conditions of the gastro - intestinal tract with or without the presence of phosphate ( 400 mg ) .
The study was conducted at pH 3 . 0 , 5 . 5 and 8 . 0 with incubation at 37 ° C for 6 hours .
Interaction with Velphoro was seen with the following drugs : alendronate , doxycycline , acetylsalicylic acid , cephalexin , levothyroxine , and paricalcitol .
The following drugs did not show interaction with Velphoro : ciprofloxacin , enalapril , hydrochlorothiazide , metoprolol , nifedipine , and quinidine .
In vivo Five in vivo drug interaction studies ( N = 40 / study ) were conducted with losartan , furosemide , digoxin , omeprazole and warfarin in healthy subjects receiving 1 , 000 mg Velphoro 3 times a day with meals .
Velphoro did not alter the systemic exposure as measured by the area under the curve ( AUC ) of the tested drugs when co - administered with Velphoro or given 2 hours later .
Data from the clinical studies ( Study - 05 A and Study - 05 B ) show that Velphoro does not affect the lipid lowering effects of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors or the PTH lowering effect of calcitriol .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies were performed in mice and rats .
In the 2 - year carcinogenicity study in mice , animals were given Velphoro by diet at doses of 250 , 500 or 1 , 000 mg / kg / day .
There was no clear evidence of a carcinogenic effect in mice .
Mucosal hyperplasia , with diverticulum / cyst formation was observed in the colon and caecum of mice after 2 years treatment .
In the 2 - year rat carcinogenicity study , animals were given Velphoro by diet at doses of 40 , 150 or 500 mg / kg / day .
No statistically significantly increased incidences of tumors were found , but there were increased incidences in epithelial hyperplasia with or without submucosal inflammation in duodenum , cecum and colon at the dose of 500 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the maximum recommended clinical dose ) .
Velphoro was not mutagenic , clastogenic or DNA damaging in vitro in the Ames bacterial reverse mutation test , or in the Chinese - hamster fibroblast chromosomal aberration test , or in vivo in the rat Comet assay or peripheral blood micronucleus test .
In rats , mating performance and fertility were unaffected by Velphoro at oral doses up to 800 mg / kg / day ( 16 times the maximum recommended clinical dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The ability of Velphoro to lower serum phosphorus in ESRD patients on dialysis was demonstrated in 2 randomized clinical trials : one 6 - week , open - label , active - controlled ( sevelamer hydrochloride ) , dose - finding study ; and one 55 - week , open - label , active - controlled ( sevelamer carbonate ) , parallel - group , safety and efficacy study .
In clinical trials , control of serum phosphorus levels was demonstrated at doses starting from 1 , 000 mg ( 2 tablets ) per day with treatment effect being observed as early as 1 - 2 weeks after starting Velphoro .
Fixed - dose Study In Study - 03 A , 154 ESRD patients on hemodialysis who were hyperphosphatemic ( serum phosphorus > 5 . 5 mg / dL but < 7 . 75 mg / dL ) following a 2 - week phosphate binder washout period , were randomized to receive Velphoro at 250 mg / day , 1 , 000 mg / day , 1 , 500 mg / day , 2 , 000 mg / day , or 2 , 500 mg / day or active - control ( sevelamer hydrochloride ) .
Velphoro treatment was divided across meals , depending on dose .
No dose titration was allowed .
Within each of the groups , the serum phosphorus level at the end of treatment was compared to baseline value .
Velphoro was shown to be efficacious ( p ≤ 0 . 016 ) for all doses except 250 mg / day .
There were no patient - reported dose limiting treatment - emergent adverse events .
Mean changes in iron parameters ( ferritin , transferrin saturation ( TSAT ) and transferrin ) and vitamins ( A , D , E and K ) were generally not clinically meaningful and showed no apparent trends across the treatment groups .
Velphoro had a similar GI adverse event profile [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] to sevelamer hydrochloride , and no dose - dependent trend in GI events was observed .
Dose Titration Study In Study - 05 A , 1 , 055 patients on hemodialysis ( N = 968 ) or peritoneal dialysis ( N = 87 ) with serum phosphorus ≥ 6 mg / dL following a 2 - 4 week phosphate binder washout period , were randomized and treated with either Velphoro , at a starting dose of 1 , 000 mg / day ( N = 707 ) , or active - control ( sevelamer carbonate , N = 348 ) for 24 weeks .
At the end of Week 24 , 93 patients on hemodialysis whose serum phosphorus levels were controlled ( < 5 . 5 mg / dL ) with Velphoro in the first part of the study , were re - randomized to continue treatment with either their Week 24 maintenance dose ( N = 44 or a non - effective low dose control 250 mg / day , N = 49 ) of Velphoro for a further 3 weeks .
At Week 27 , a superiority analysis of the Velphoro maintenance dose versus low dose was performed .
The maximum dose of Velphoro was 3 , 000 mg / day ( 6 tablets / day ) and the minimum dose was 1 , 000 mg / day ( 2 tablets / day ) .
Velphoro was administered with food and the daily dose was divided across the largest meals of the day .
The Velphoro maintenance dose ( 1 , 000 to 3 , 000 mg / day ) was statistically significantly superior in sustaining the phosphorus lowering effect in hemodialysis patients at Week 27 ( p < 0 . 001 ) compared with the non - effective low dose control .
The results are provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 Mean ( SD ) Serum Phosphorus and Change from Baseline to End of Treatment * p < 0 . 001 for the difference in least square means of the change from BL to Week 27 / End of Treatment ( LOCF principle ) between Velphoro maintenance dose and low dose using a covariance analysis ( MIXED Model ) .
Notes : BL is Week 24 or latest value available before Week 24 when Week 24 result is missing ; End of Treatment is Week 27 value or includes the latest evaluable measurement after Week 24 ( i . e . , LOCF ) .
BL = Baseline ; LOCF = Last observation carried forward ; SD = Standard deviation .
Mean ( SD ) Serum Phosphorus ( mg / dL ) Velphoro Maintenance Dose Velphoro Low Dose Control ( 1 , 000 to 3 , 000 mg / day ) ( 250 mg / day ) ( N = 44 ) ( N = 49 ) Week 24 ( BL ) 4 . 7 ( 1 . 03 ) 5 . 0 ( 1 . 14 ) Week 25 4 . 7 ( 0 . 91 ) 6 . 3 ( 1 . 44 ) Week 26 4 . 7 ( 1 . 21 ) 6 . 6 ( 1 . 91 ) Week 27 / End of Treatment 5 . 0 ( 1 . 07 ) 6 . 8 ( 1 . 63 ) Change from BL to End of Treatment 0 . 3 ( 1 . 22 ) * 1 . 8 ( 1 . 47 ) Following completion of Study - 05 A , 658 patients ( 597 on hemodialysis and 61 on peritoneal dialysis ) were treated in the 28 - week extension study ( Study - 05 B ) with either Velphoro ( N = 391 ) or sevelamer carbonate ( N = 267 ) according to their original randomization .
Serum phosphorus levels declined rapidly during the first few weeks of treatment and remained relatively constant thereafter .
The phosphorus lowering effect of Velphoro was consistently maintained and controlled through 12 months of treatment ( shown in Figure 1 ) .
The proportion of adherent patients for Velphoro was 86 % at 52 weeks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 Mean change ( ± SEM ) from baseline in serum phosphorus over time in Study05A and extension Study ‑ 05 B .
Insert showing the mean change ( ± SEM ) from baseline in serum phosphorus during the withdrawal phase of the study ( Weeks 24 to 27 ) for Velphoro non - effective low dose control ( 250 mg / day ) versus Velphoro maintenance dose .
Age , gender , race , or dialysis modality did not affect the efficacy of Velphoro .
There were no clinically meaningful changes for serum iron , ferritin , TSAT levels , vitamins ( A , D , E and K ) with Velphoro .
There was no evidence of accumulation of iron during one year treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Velphoro are chewable tablets supplied as brown , circular , bi - planar tablets , embossed with “ PA 500 ” on 1 side .
Each tablet of Velphoro contains 500 mg iron as sucroferric oxyhydroxide .
Velphoro tablets are packaged as follows : NDC 49230 - 645 - 51 Bottle of 90 tablets Storage Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that Velphoro tablets should be chewed or crushed .
Do not swallow whole [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Advise patients that Velphoro should be taken with meals .
Instruct patients on concomitant medications that should be dosed apart from Velphoro [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Inform patients that Velphoro can cause discolored ( black ) stool , but this discoloration of the stool is considered normal with oral medications containing iron .
Inform patients that Velphoro can stain teeth .
Inform patients to report any rash to their health care professional .
Distributed by : Fresenius Medical Care North America 920 Winter Street Waltham , MA 02451 Patents Apply – visit www . fmcna . com / patents © 2014 - 2020 , Fresenius Medical Care North America .
All Rights Reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Label - Bottle Label - NDC 49230 - 645 - 51 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Label - Bottle Carton - NDC 49230 - 645 - 51 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
