Drug Facts Active ingredient ( per mini enema ) Docusate Sodium USP 283 mg Benzocaine 20 mg Docusate Sodium USP 283 mg ............. Stool Softener Laxative Benzocaine 20 mg ................................
Anesthetic Uses For relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) .
This product generally produces a stimulus and bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes .
Warnings For rectal use only .
This is not a suppository .
Do not take orally .
Individuals with sensitivity to Benzocaine should not use this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting .
• a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking mineral oil .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you : • have rectal bleeding .
• failed to have a bowel movement after use .
This may indicate a serious condition .
• encounter resistance .
Forcing the tube may result in injury or damage to the rectum .
If product is not administered properly and occasional rectal examinations are not performed , serious complications can arise .
Occasional rectal exams are imperative for patients with impaired rectal function , especially loss of sensation .
• require a bowel program for longer than 1 week .
• experience rectal irritation or a rash around the anus appears .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion or overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older ( with adult supervision ) one to three units daily .
Children 2 years and over but not more than 12 years should consult a doctor prior to use and not exceed one unit daily ( with adult supervision ) .
Twist off and remove tip ; Lubricate tip prior to insertion : Place a few drops of water or product on the shaft prior to insertion .
Also apply one of these lubricants to the anus before inserting the enema .
With steady pressure , gently insert the tube into the rectum with care to prevent damage to the rectal wall .
Squeeze to empty the contents .
Continue squeezing the tube until it is removed from the rectum .
Remove the disposable tube and discard .
A small amount of liquid may remain in the tube after use .
Positioning : For best results , lay on the left side with knees bent .
Alternate Positions : • Administer while seated on the toilet .
• Kneel with the left arm folded comfortably , then lower head and chest forward until side of face is resting on the surface .
Other Information Other Information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients Polyethylene Glycol and Glycerin USP Questions or Comments : 1 - 888 - 273 - 9734 or www . enemeez . com Manufactured by : Enemeez , Inc . , Phoenix , AZ 85050 Distributed by : Alliance Labs , L . L . C 2515 E . Rose Garden Lane , Suite # 1 Phoenix , AZ 85050 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
