Diclona Gel ( Lidocaine 4 . 5 % , Diclofenac Sodium 1 % ) Rx only Diclona Gel ( Lidocaine 4 . 5 % , Diclofenac 1 % ) is comprised of a gel inside of a 3 . 5 oz tube containing 4 . 5 % Lidocaine and 1 % Diclofenac Sodium .
Inactive ingredients : Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Juice , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Carbomer , Dimethyl Sulfoxide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Methylsulfonylmethane , Phenoxyethanol , Prunus Amygdalus Dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) Oil , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Sorbitol , Triethanolamine , Water .
Pharmacodynamics Lidocaine is an amide - type local anesthetic agent .
The penetration of lidocaine into intact skin after application of Diclona Gel is sufficient to produce analgesic effect , but less than the amount necessary to produce a complete sensory block .
The mechanism of action of diclofenac sodium in the treatment of actinic keratoses ( AK ) is unknown .
The contribution to efficacy of individual components of the vehicle has not been established .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption The amount of lidocaine systemically absorbed from Diclona Gel is directly related to both the duration of application and the surface area over which it is applied .
When Diclona Gel is applied topically , diclofenac sodium is absorbed into the epidermis .
The systematic bioavailability after topical application of diclofenac sodium is lower than after oral dosing .
Distribution At concentrations produced by application of Diclona Gel , approximately 70 % of the lidocaine dose is reported to be bound to plasma proteins , primarily alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
At higher plasma concentrations ( 1 to 4 mcg / mL of free base ) , the plasma protein binding of lidocaine is concentration dependent .
Diclofenac sodium binds tightly to serum albumin .
Metabolism It is not known if Diclona Gel is metabolized in the skin .
Metabolism of diclofenac sodium following topical administration is thought to be similar to that after oral administration .
The small amounts of diclofenac sodium and its metabolites appearing in the plasma following topical administration makes the quantification of specific metabolites imprecise .
Excretion Lidocaine and its metabolites are excreted by the kidneys .
Less than 10 % of lidocaine is excreted unchanged .
The half - life of lidocaine elimination from the plasma following IV administration is 81 to 149 minutes ( mean 107 ± 22 SD , n = 15 ) .
The systemic clearance is 0 . 33 to 0 . 90 L / min ( mean 0 . 64 ± 2 max max 0 . 18 SD , n = 15 ) .
Diclofenac sodium and its metabolites are excreted mainly in the urine after oral dosing .
Diclona Gel is indicated for relief of pain associated with arthritis , backache , cramps , discomfort , neckache , soreness , sprains , strains .
It should be applied only to intact skin .
Sun avoidance is indicated during therapy .
Diclona Gel is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type , or to any other component of the product .
Diclona Gel is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diclofenac sodium .
Diclona Gel is contraindicated in patients in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
Medicines intended to be applied to the skin should not be swallowed .
Diclona Gel is flammable .
Keep away from open flame .
You should never heat , microwave , or add the medicine to hot water .
Risk of Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with lidocaine use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing the condition .
If lidocaine must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Risk of Serious Cardiovascular Events Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , including myocardial infarction and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may occur early in treatment and may increase with duration of use .
Fetal Toxicity Avoid use of NSAIDs in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later .
NSAIDs increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age .
Use of NSAIDs at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and , in some case , neonatal renal impairment .
If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation , limit Diclona Gel use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible .
Serious Skin Reactions Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as Diclona Gel .
DRESS typically , although not exclusively , presents with fever , rash , lymphadenopathy , and / or facial swelling .
Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists ’ Collaboration meta - analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two - fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX - 2 selective - treated patients and nonselective NSAID - treated patients compared to placebo - treated patients .
Avoid the use of Diclona Gel in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure .
If Diclona Gel is used in patients with severe heart failure , monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure .
General Diclona Gel should be used with caution in patients with active gastrointestinal ulceration or bleeding and severe renal or hepatic impairments .
Diclona Gel should not be applied to open skin wounds , infections , or exfoliative dermatitis .
Hepatic Disease Patients with severe hepatic disease are at greater risk of developing toxic blood concentrations of lidocaine , because of their inability to metabolize lidocaine normally .
Allergic Reactions Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
However , Diclona Gel should be used with caution in patients with a history of drug sensitivities , especially if the etiologic agent is uncertain .
Non - intact Skin Application to broken or inflamed skin , although not tested , may result in higher blood concentrations of lidocaine from increased absorption .
Diclona Gel is only recommended for use on intact skin .
External Heat Sources Placement of external heat sources , such as heating pads or electric blankets , over Diclona Gel is not recommended as this has not been evaluated and may increase plasma lidocaine levels .
Eye Exposure The contact of Diclona Gel with eyes , although not studied , should be avoided based on the findings of severe eye irritation with the use of similar products in animals .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and protect the eye until sensation returns .
Information for Patients Methemoglobinemia Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Drug Interactions Specific interaction studies between Diclona Gel and other topical or oral agents were not performed .
Oral Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs Although low , there is systemic exposure to diclofenac sodium following labeled use of Diclona Gel .
Therefore , concomitant administration of Diclona Gel with oral NSAIDs or aspirin may result in increased NSAID adverse effects .
Antiarrhythmic Drugs Diclona Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Local Anesthetics When Diclona Gel is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with Diclona Gel Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric oxide , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase , antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides , antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine anticonvulsants , phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate , opher drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine carcinogenesis , mutagenesis .
Impairment of Fertility The effect of Diclona Gel on fertility has not been studied .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Diclona Gel has not been studied in pregnancy .
Labor and Delivery Diclona Gel has not been studied in labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Diclona Gel has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Application Site Reactions During or immediately after treatment with Diclona Gel , the skin at the site of application may develop blisters , bruising , burning sensation , depigmentation , dermatitis , discoloration , edema , erythema , exfoliation , irritation , papules , petechia , pruritus , vesicles , or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
These reactions are generally mild and transient , resolving spontaneously within a few minutes to hours .
Other Adverse Events Due to the nature and limitation of spontaneous reports in post marketing surveillance , causality has not been established for additional reported adverse events including : Asthenia , confusion , disorientation , dizziness , headache , hyperesthesia , hypoesthesia , lightheadedness , metallic taste , nausea , nervousness , pain exacerbated , paresthesia , somnolence , taste alteration , vomiting , visual disturbances such as blurred vision , flushing , tinnitus , and tremor .
Systemic ( Dose - Related ) Reactions Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of Diclona Gel are unlikely , due to the small dose absorbed ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine is similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents , including CNS excitation and / or depression ( light headedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest ) .
Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness .
Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia , hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest .
Lidocaine overdose from cutaneous absorption is rare but could occur .
Excessive dosing by applying Diclona Gel to larger areas could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations , leading to serious adverse effects ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Systemic Reactions ) .
Longer duration of application of more than the recommended number of doses , smaller patients , or impaired elimination may all contribute to increased blood concentration of lidocaine .
Due to the low systemic absorption of topically - applied diclofenac sodium , overdosage of diclofenac sodium is unlikely .
Apply Diclona Gel to intact skin to cover the most painful area .
Clean and dry the affected area .
Apply product directly to your skin , up to 4 times daily .
Clothing may be worn over the area of application .
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application , wash the product off your skin and do not reapply until the irritation subsides .
When Diclona Gel is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Hands should be washed after the handling of Diclona Gel , and eye contact with Diclona Gel should be avoided .
Store in a cool , dry place with lid tightly closed .
Diclona Gel should be kept out of the reach of children .
Diclona Gel is available as the following : 1 tube , 3 . 5 oz NDC 53225 - 1070 - 1 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
For more information , contact Terrain Pharmaceuticals .
info @ terrainrx . com Manufactured for : Terrain Pharmaceuticals Reno , NV 89501 Printed in the U . S . A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
