Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 8 % Camphor 2 . 8 % Purpose External analgesic External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Warnings For external use only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use on irritated or damaged skin on wounds if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have any concerns about using this product When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranesdo not bandage tightly do not apply heat to the area in the form of heating pads , hot water bottles , or lamps ( doing so increases the risk of serious burns ) Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days excessive irritation of the skin develops nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs you feel actual pain or experience blistering or burning after application ( it is normal to feel a warming or cooling sensation ) when using for pain of arthritis : pain persists for more than 10 days redness is present in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Report any unexpected side effects from the use of this product to the FDA MedWatch Program Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
children under 2 years of age : consult your physician Other information cap bottle tightly store at room temperature , away from heat Inactive ingredients Alcohol , alisma plantago - aquatica subsp .
orientale root , angelica dahurica root , angelica sinensis root , atractylodes lancea root , atractylodes macrocephala root , cinnamomum cassia twig , citrus aurantium fruit , cullen corylifolium fruit , cuscuta chinensis seed , cyperus rotundus tuber , dioscorea villosa tuber , erycibe obtusifolia stem , fennel seed , frankincense , gleditsia sinensis fruit , ligusticum sinense subsp .
chuanxiong root , myrrh , notopterygium franchetii root , paeonia x suffruticosa root bark , panax notoginseng root , polygonatum sibiricum root , polysorbate 80 , prunus armeniaca seed , purified water , and tangerine peel .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm you may also report serious side effects to this phone number Lung Choy Shung Pain Relief Liquid External Analgesic NDC 55614 - 600 - 01 Menthol and Camphor 6 . 76 fl oz ( 200 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
