PRESCRIBING INFORMATION DESCRIPTION Pentosan polysulfate sodium is a semi - synthetically produced heparin - like macromolecular carbohydrate derivative , which chemically and structurally resembles glycosaminoglycans .
It is a white odorless powder , slightly hygroscopic and soluble in water to 50 % at pH 6 .
It has a molecular weight of 4000 to 6000 Dalton with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ELMIRON ® is supplied in white opaque hard gelatin capsules containing 100 mg pentosan polysulfate sodium , microcrystalline cellulose , and magnesium stearate .
It also contains pharmaceutical glaze ( modified ) in SD - 45 , synthetic black iron oxide , FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , FD & C Red No . 40 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake , D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , SDA - 3 A alcohol , and titanium dioxide .
It is formulated for oral use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY General Pentosan polysulfate sodium is a low molecular weight heparin - like compound .
It has anticoagulant and fibrinolytic effects .
The mechanism of action of pentosan polysulfate sodium in interstitial cystitis is not known .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a clinical pharmacology study in which healthy female volunteers received a single oral 300 or 450 mg dose of pentosan polysulfate sodium containing radiolabeled drug as a solution under fasted conditions , maximal levels of plasma radioactivity were seen approximately at a median of 2 hours ( range 0 . 6 - 120 hours ) after dosing .
Based on urinary excretion of radioactivity , a mean of approximately 6 % of a radiolabeled oral dose of pentosan polysulfate sodium is absorbed and reaches the systemic circulation .
Food Effects : In clinical trials , ELMIRON ® was administered with water 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals ; the effect of food on absorption of pentosan polysulfate sodium is not known .
Distribution Preclinical studies with parenterally administered radiolabeled pentosan polysulfate sodium showed distribution to the uroepithelium of the genitourinary tract with lesser amounts found in the liver , spleen , lung , skin , periosteum , and bone marrow .
Erythrocyte penetration is low in animals .
Metabolism The fraction of pentosan polysulfate sodium that is absorbed is metabolized by partial desulfation in the liver and spleen , and by partial depolymerization in the kidney to a large number of metabolites .
Both the desulfation and depolymerization can be saturated with continued dosing .
Excretion Following administration of an oral solution of a 300 or 450 mg dose of pentosan polysulfate sodium containing radiolabeled drug to groups of healthy subjects , plasma radioactivity declined with mean half - lives of 27 and 20 hours , respectively .
A large proportion of the orally administered dose of pentosan polysulfate sodium ( mean 84 % in the 300 mg group and 58 % in the 450 mg group ) is excreted in feces as unchanged drug .
A mean of 6 % of an oral dose is excreted in the urine , mostly as desulfated and depolymerized metabolites .
Only a small fraction of the administered dose ( mean 0 . 14 % ) is recovered as intact drug in urine .
Special Populations The pharmacokinetics of pentosan polysulfate sodium has not been studied in geriatric patients or in patients with hepatic or renal impairment .
See also PRECAUTIONS - Hepatic Insufficiency .
Drug - Drug Interactions In a study in which healthy subjects received pentosan polysulfate sodium 100 mg capsule or placebo every 8 hours for 7 days , and were titrated with warfarin to an INR of 1 . 4 to 1 . 8 , the pharmacokinetic parameters of R - warfarin and S - warfarin were similar in the absence and presence of pentosan polysulfate sodium .
INR for warfarin + placebo and warfarin + pentosan polysulfate sodium were comparable .
See also PRECAUTIONS on the use of ELMIRON ® in patients receiving other therapies with anticoagulant effects .
Pharmacodynamics The mechanism by which pentosan polysulfate sodium achieves its effects in patients is unknown .
In preliminary clinical models , pentosan polysulfate sodium adhered to the bladder wall mucosal membrane .
The drug may act as a buffer to control cell permeability preventing irritating solutes in the urine from reaching the cells .
CLINICAL TRIALS ELMIRON ® was evaluated in two clinical trials for the relief of pain in patients with chronic interstitial cystitis ( IC ) .
All patients met the NIH definition of IC based upon the results of cystoscopy , cytology , and biopsy .
One blinded , randomized , placebo - controlled study evaluated 151 patients ( 145 women , 5 men , 1 unknown ) with a mean age of 44 years ( range 18 to 81 ) .
Approximately equal numbers of patients received either placebo or ELMIRON ® 100 mg three times a day for 3 months .
Clinical improvement in bladder pain was based upon the patient ' s own assessment .
In this study , 28 / 74 ( 38 % ) of patients who received ELMIRON ® and 13 / 74 ( 18 % ) of patients who received placebo showed greater than 50 % improvement in bladder pain ( p = 0 . 005 ) .
A second clinical trial , the physician ' s usage study , was a prospectively designed retrospective analysis of 2499 patients who received ELMIRON ® 300 mg a day without blinding .
Of the 2499 patients , 2220 were women , 254 were men , and 25 were of unknown sex .
The patients had a mean age of 47 years and 23 % were over 60 years of age .
By 3 months , 1307 ( 52 % ) of the patients had dropped out or were ineligible for analysis , overall , 1192 ( 48 % ) received ELMIRON ® for 3 months ; 892 ( 36 % ) received ELMIRON ® for 6 months ; and 598 ( 24 % ) received ELMIRON ® for one year .
Patients had unblinded evaluations every 3 months for the patient ' s rating of overall change in pain in comparison to baseline and for the difference calculated in " pain / discomfort " scores .
At baseline , pain / discomfort scores for the original 2499 patients were severe or unbearable in 60 % , moderate in 33 % and mild or none in 7 % of patients .
The extent of the patients ' pain improvement is shown in Table 1 .
At 3 months , 722 / 2499 ( 29 % ) of the patients originally in the study had pain scores that improved by one or two categories .
By 6 months , in the 892 patients who continued taking ELMIRON ® , an additional 116 / 2499 ( 5 % ) of patients had improved pain scores .
After 6 months , the percent of patients who reported the first onset of pain relief was less than 1 . 5 % of patients who originally entered in the study ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 1 : Pain Scores in Reference to Baseline in Open Label Physician ' s Usage Study ( N = 2499 ) [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter 3 months [ 2 ] 6 months null Patient Rating of Overall Change in Pain ( Recollection of difference between current pain and baseline pain ) [ 3 ] N = 1161 Median = 3 Mean = 3 . 44 CI : ( 3 . 37 , 3 . 51 ) N = 724 Median = 4 Mean = 3 . 91 CI : ( 3 . 83 , 3 . 99 ) Change in Pain / Discomfort Score ( Calculated difference in scores at the time point and baseline ) [ 4 ] N = 1440 Median = 1 Mean = 0 . 51 CI : ( 0 . 45 , 0 . 57 ) N = 904 Median = 1 Mean = 0 . 66 CI : ( 0 . 61 , 0 . 71 ) [ 1 ] Trial not designed to detect onset of pain relief [ 2 ] CI = 95 % confidence interval [ 3 ] 6 - point scale : 1 = worse , 2 = no better , 3 = slightly improved , 4 = moderately improved , 5 = greatly improved , 6 = symptom gone [ 4 ] 3 - point scale : 1 = none or mild , 2 = moderate , 3 = severe or unbearable Table 2 : Number ( % ) of Patients with New Relief of Pain / Discomfort [ 1 ] in the Open - Label Physician ' s Usage Study ( N = 2499 ) at 3 months [ 2 ] ( n = 1192 ) at 6 months [ 3 ] ( n = 892 ) Considering only the patients who continued treatment 722 / 1192 ( 61 % ) 116 / 892 ( 13 % ) Considering all the patients originally enrolled in the study 722 / 2499 ( 29 % ) 116 / 2499 ( 5 % ) [ 1 ] First - time Improvement in pain / discomfort score by 1 or 2 categories [ 2 ] Number ( % ) of patients with improvement of pain / discomfort score at 3 months when compared to baseline [ 3 ] Number ( % ) of patients without pain / discomfort improvement at 3 months who had improvement at 6 months INDICATIONS AND USAGE ELMIRON ® ( pentosan polysulfate sodium ) is indicated for the relief of bladder pain or discomfort associated with interstitial cystitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ELMIRON ® is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug , structurally related compounds , or excipients .
WARNINGS Retinal Pigmentary Changes Pigmentary changes in the retina , reported in the literature as pigmentary maculopathy , have been identified with long - term use of ELMIRON ® ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Although most of these cases occurred after 3 years of use or longer , cases have been seen with a shorter duration of use .
While the etiology is unclear , cumulative dose appears to be a risk factor .
Visual symptoms in the reported cases included difficulty reading , slow adjustment to low or reduced light environments , and blurred vision .
The visual consequences of these pigmentary changes are not fully characterized .
Caution should be used in patients with retinal pigment changes from other causes in which examination findings may confound the appropriate diagnosis , follow - up , and treatment .
Detailed ophthalmologic history should be obtained in all patients prior to starting treatment with ELMIRON ® .
If there is a family history of hereditary pattern dystrophy , genetic testing should be considered .
For patients with pre - existing ophthalmologic conditions , a comprehensive baseline retinal examination ( including color fundoscopic photography , ocular coherence tomography ( OCT ) , and auto - fluorescence imaging ) is recommended prior to starting therapy .
A baseline retinal examination ( including OCT and auto - fluorescence imaging ) is suggested for all patients within six months of initiating treatment and periodically while continuing treatment .
If pigmentary changes in the retina develop , then risks and benefits of continuing treatment should be re - evaluated , since these changes may be irreversible .
Follow - up retinal examinations should be continued given that retinal and vision changes may progress even after cessation of treatment .
PRECAUTIONS General ELMIRON ® is a weak anticoagulant ( 1 / 15 the activity of heparin ) .
At a daily dose of 300 mg ( n = 128 ) , rectal hemorrhage was reported as an adverse event in 6 . 3 % of patients .
Bleeding complications of ecchymosis , epistaxis , and gum hemorrhage have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients undergoing invasive procedures or having signs / symptoms of underlying coagulopathy or other increased risk of bleeding ( due to other therapies such as coumarin anticoagulants , heparin , t - PA , streptokinase , high dose aspirin , or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) should be evaluated for hemorrhage .
Patients with diseases such as aneurysms , thrombocytopenia , hemophilia , gastrointestinal ulcerations , polyps , or diverticula should be carefully evaluated before starting ELMIRON ® .
A similar product that was given subcutaneously , sublingually , or intramuscularly ( and not initially metabolized by the liver ) is associated with delayed immunoallergic thrombocytopenia with symptoms of thrombosis and hemorrhage .
Caution should be exercised when using ELMIRON ® in patients who have a history of heparin induced thrombocytopenia .
Alopecia is associated with pentosan polysulfate and with heparin products .
In clinical trials of ELMIRON ® , alopecia began within the first 4 weeks of treatment .
Ninety - seven percent ( 97 % ) of the cases of alopecia reported were alopecia areata , limited to a single area on the scalp .
Hepatic Insufficiency ELMIRON ® has not been studied in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Because there is evidence of hepatic contribution to the elimination of ELMIRON ® , hepatic impairment may have an impact on the pharmacokinetics of ELMIRON ® .
Caution should be exercised when using ELMIRON ® in this patient population .
Mildly ( < 2 . 5 × normal ) elevated transaminase , alkaline phosphatase , γ - glutamyl transpeptidase , and lactic dehydrogenase occurred in 1 . 2 % of patients .
The increases usually appeared 3 to 12 months after the start of ELMIRON ® therapy , and were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms .
These abnormalities are usually transient , may remain essentially unchanged , or may rarely progress with continued use .
Increases in PTT and PT ( < 1 % for both ) or thrombocytopenia ( 0 . 2 % ) were noted .
Information for Patients Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Patients should take the drug as prescribed , in the dosage prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Patients should be informed that changes in vision should be reported and evaluated .
Retinal examinations including optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) and auto - fluorescence imaging are suggested for all patients within six months of starting ELMIRON ® and periodically during long - term treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Patients should be reminded that ELMIRON ® has a weak anticoagulant effect .
This effect may increase bleeding times .
Laboratory Test Findings Pentosan polysulfate sodium did not affect prothrombin time ( PT ) or partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) up to 1200 mg per day in 24 healthy male subjects treated for 8 days .
Pentosan polysulfate sodium also inhibits the generation of factor Xa in plasma and inhibits thrombin - induced platelet aggregation in human platelet rich plasma ex vivo .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Hepatic Insufficiency Section for additional information . )
Carcinogenicity , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies of ELMIRON ® in F344 / N rats and B6C3F1 mice have been conducted .
In these studies , ELMIRON ® was orally administered once daily via gavage , 5 days per week , for up to 2 years .
The dosages administered to mice were 56 , 168 or 504 mg / kg .
The dosages administered to rats were 14 , 42 , or 126 mg / kg for males , and 28 , 84 , or 252 mg / kg for females .
The dosages tested were up to 60 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in rats , and up to 117 times the MRHD in mice , on a mg / kg basis .
The results of these studies in rodents showed no clear evidence of drug - related tumorigenesis or carcinogenic risk .
Pentosan polysulfate sodium was not clastogenic or mutagenic when tested in the mouse micronucleus test or the Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) .
The effect of pentosan polysulfate sodium on spermatogenesis has not been investigated .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been performed in mice and rats with intravenous daily doses of 15 mg / kg , and in rabbits with 7 . 5 mg / kg .
These doses are 0 . 42 and 0 . 14 times the daily oral human doses of ELMIRON ® when normalized to body surface area .
These studies did not reveal evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus from ELMIRON ® .
Direct in vitro bathing of cultured mouse embryos with pentosan polysulfate sodium ( PPS ) at a concentration of 1 mg / mL may cause reversible limb bud abnormalities .
Adequate and well - controlled studies have not been performed in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ELMIRON ® is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ELMIRON ® was evaluated in clinical trials in a total of 2627 patients ( 2343 women , 262 men , 22 unknown ) with a mean age of 47 [ range 18 to 88 with 581 ( 22 % ) over 60 years of age ] .
Of the 2627 patients , 128 patients were in a 3 - month trial and the remaining 2499 patients were in a long - term , unblinded trial .
Deaths occurred in 6 / 2627 ( 0 . 2 % ) patients who received the drug over a period of 3 to 75 months .
The deaths appear to be related to other concurrent illnesses or procedures , except in one patient for whom the cause was not known .
Serious adverse events occurred in 33 / 2627 ( 1 . 3 % ) patients .
Two patients had severe abdominal pain or diarrhea and dehydration that required hospitalization .
Because there was not a control group of patients with interstitial cystitis who were concurrently evaluated , it is difficult to determine which events are associated with ELMIRON ® and which events are associated with concurrent illness , medicine , or other factors .
Adverse Experience in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials of ELMIRON ® 100 mg Three Times a Day for 3 Months Body System / Adverse Experience ELMIRON ® n = 128 Placebo n = 130 CNS Overall Number of Patients [ 1 ] 3 5 Insomnia 1 0 Headache 1 3 Severe Emotional Lability / Depression 2 1 Nystagmus / Dizziness 1 1 Hyperkinesia 1 1 GI Overall Number of Patients null 7 7 Nausea 3 3 Diarrhea 3 6 Dyspepsia 1 0 Jaundice 0 1 Vomiting 0 2 Skin / Allergic Overall Number of Patients null 2 4 Rash 0 2 Pruritus 0 2 Lacrimation 1 1 Rhinitis 1 1 Increased Sweating 1 0 Other Overall Number of Patients null 1 3 Amenorrhea 0 1 Arthralgia 0 1 Vaginitis 1 1 Total Events 17 27 Total Number of Patients Reporting Adverse Events 13 19 [ 1 ] Within a body system , the individual events do not sum to equal overall number of patients because a patient may have more than one event .
The adverse events described below were reported in an unblinded clinical trial of 2499 interstitial cystitis patients treated with ELMIRON ® .
Of the original 2499 patients , 1192 ( 48 % ) received ELMIRON ® for 3 months ; 892 ( 36 % ) received ELMIRON ® for 6 months ; and 598 ( 24 % ) received ELMIRON ® for one year , 355 ( 14 % ) received ELMIRON ® for 2 years , and 145 ( 6 % ) for 4 years .
Frequency ( 1 to 4 % ) : Alopecia ( 4 % ) , diarrhea ( 4 % ) , nausea ( 4 % ) , headache ( 3 % ) , rash ( 3 % ) , dyspepsia ( 2 % ) , abdominal pain ( 2 % ) , liver function abnormalities ( 1 % ) , dizziness ( 1 % ) .
Frequency ( ≤ 1 % ) : Digestive : Vomiting , mouth ulcer , colitis , esophagitis , gastritis , flatulence , constipation , anorexia , gum hemorrhage .
Hematologic : Anemia , ecchymosis , increased prothrombin time , increased partial thromboplastin time , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Allergic reaction , photosensitivity .
Respiratory System : Pharyngitis , rhinitis , epistaxis , dyspnea .
Skin and Appendages : Pruritus , urticaria .
Special Senses : Conjunctivitis , tinnitus , optic neuritis , amblyopia , retinal hemorrhage .
Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of pentosan polysulfate sodium ; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : • pigmentary changes in the retina ( see WARNINGS ) .
Rectal Hemorrhage ELMIRON ® was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , parallel group , Phase 4 study conducted in 380 patients with interstitial cystitis dosed for 32 weeks .
At a daily dose of 300 mg ( n = 128 ) , rectal hemorrhage was reported as an adverse event in 6 . 3 % of patients .
The severity of the events was described as " mild " in most patients .
Patients in that study who were administered ELMIRON ® 900 mg daily , a dose higher than the approved dose , experienced a higher incidence of rectal hemorrhage , 15 % .
Liver Function Abnormality A randomized , double - blind , parallel group , Phase 2 study was conducted in 100 men ( 51 ELMIRON ® and 49 placebo ) dosed for 16 weeks .
At a daily dose of 900 mg , a dose higher than the approved dose , elevated liver function tests were reported as an adverse event in 11 . 8 % ( n = 6 ) of ELMIRON ® - treated patients and 2 % ( n = 1 ) of placebo - treated patients .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose has not been reported .
Based upon the pharmacodynamics of the drug , toxicity is likely to be reflected as anticoagulation , bleeding , thrombocytopenia , liver function abnormalities , and gastric distress .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS sections . )
At a daily dose of 900 mg for 32 weeks ( n = 127 ) in a clinical trial , rectal hemorrhage was reported as an adverse event in 15 % of patients .
At a daily dose of ELMIRON ® 900 mg for 16 weeks in a clinical trial that enrolled 51 patients in the ELMIRON ® group and 49 in the placebo group , elevated liver function tests were reported as an adverse event in 11 . 8 % of patients in the ELMIRON ® group and 2 % of patients in the placebo group .
In the event of acute overdosage , the patient should be given gastric lavage if possible , carefully observed and given symptomatic and supportive treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ELMIRON ® is 300 mg / day taken as one 100 mg capsule orally three times daily .
The capsules should be taken with water at least 1 hour before meals or 2 hours after meals .
Patients receiving ELMIRON ® should be reassessed after 3 months .
If improvement has not occurred and if limiting adverse events are not present , ELMIRON ® may be continued for another 3 months .
The clinical value and risks of continued treatment in patients whose pain has not improved by 6 months is not known .
HOW SUPPLIED ELMIRON ® is supplied in white opaque hard gelatin capsules imprinted " BNP7600 " containing 100 mg pentosan polysulfate sodium .
Supplied in bottles of 100 capsules .
NDC NUMBER 50458 - 098 - 01 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
ELMIRON is a registered trademark of Teva Branded Pharmaceutical Products R & D Inc . , used under license .
© 2002 Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies Product of Germany Manufactured for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , New Jersey 08560 Revised : 03 / 2021 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 03 / 2021 MEDICATION GUIDE ELMIRON ® ( EL ma ron ) ( pentosan polysulfate sodium ) capsules , for oral use What is the most important information I should know about ELMIRON ?
Serious side effects have been reported with the use of ELMIRON , including : • Changes in the retina of the eye ( pigmentary maculopathy ) .
Taking ELMIRON may be associated with pigment changes in the retina of the eye that may continue even after stopping treatment with ELMIRON .
Tell your healthcare provider including your eye doctor right away if you have any vision changes including any of these symptoms : • difficulty reading • your vision takes longer to adjust to low or reduced light • blurred vision Throughout your treatment , regular eye examinations that include retinal examinations are suggested for early detection of retinal / macular changes .
Your doctor will discuss with you when to get your first eye examination and follow up exams , and whether the treatment should be continued .
• Increased bleeding .
ELMIRON may increase bleeding .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms : • bruising easily • nosebleeds • bleeding gums • blood in your stool Your risk of bleeding may be increased if you take ELMIRON along with other medicines such as : • warfarin sodium • heparin • high doses of aspirin • anti - inflammatory medicines such as ibuprofen Tell your healthcare provider if you are taking any of these medicines .
Before you start taking ELMIRON , tell your healthcare provider if you are going to have surgery .
Your healthcare provider may stop ELMIRON before you have surgery .
Talk to your healthcare provider about when to stop taking ELMIRON and when to start taking it again .
What is ELMIRON ?
• ELMIRON is a prescription medicine used to treat bladder pain or discomfort associated with interstitial cystitis .
• It is not known if ELMIRON is safe and effective in children under 16 years of age .
Do not take ELMIRON if you : • are allergic to pentosan polysulfate sodium or any of the ingredients in ELMIRON .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ELMIRON .
Before your take ELMIRON , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a personal or family history of eye problems of the retina .
• have a history of aneurysms .
• have problems with easy bleeding ( thrombocytopenia ) .
• have hemophilia .
• have gastrointestinal problems such as ulcerations , polyps , or diverticula .
• have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
ELMIRON should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while taking ELMIRON .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should continue to take ELMIRON .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ELMIRON passes into your breastmilk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take ELMIRON or breastfeed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take ELMIRON ?
• Take ELMIRON exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Take 1 capsule of ELMIRON by mouth 3 times a day with water at least 1 hour before meals or 2 hours after meals .
Each capsule contains 100 mg of ELMIRON .
• If you take too much ELMIRON , call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of ELMIRON ?
Serious side effects have been reported with the use of ELMIRON , including : Changes in the retina of the eye Increased bleeding ( See " What is the most important information I should know about ELMIRON ? " )
The most common side effects of ELMIRON are : • hair loss • diarrhea • nausea • stomach pain • upset stomach • headache • rash • abnormal liver function tests • dizziness These are not all of the possible side effects of ELMIRON .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ELMIRON ?
• Store ELMIRON at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep ELMIRON and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ELMIRON .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ELMIRON for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ELMIRON to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ELMIRON that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ELMIRON ?
Active ingredient : pentosan polysulfate sodium Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , gelatin , pharmaceutical glaze ( modified ) in SD - 45 , synthetic black iron oxide , FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , FD & C Red No . 40 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake , D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , SDA - 3 A alcohol , and titanium dioxide .
ELMIRON is a registered trademark of Teva Branded Pharmaceutical Products R & D Inc . , used under license .
© 2002 , 2021 Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies Product of Germany Manufactured for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , New Jersey 08560 For more information , go to www . ORTHOELMIRON . com or call 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 50458 - 098 - 01 ELMIRON ® ( pentosan polysulfate sodium ) CAPSULES 100 mg Attention : Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Each capsule contains 100 mg pentosan polysulfate sodium .
Rx only 100 Capsules janssen [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
