Rx only FOR INTRAVAGINAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , DERMAL , OR ORAL USE DESCRIPTION Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % is the intravaginal dosage form of the synthetic antibacterial agent , metronidazole , USP at a concentration of 0 . 75 % .
Metronidazole is a member of the imidazole class of antibacterial agents and is classified therapeutically as an antiprotozoal and antibacterial agent .
Chemically , metronidazole is a 2 - methyl - 5 - nitroimidazole - 1 - ethanol .
It has a chemical formula of C 6 H 9 N 3 O 3 , a molecular weight of 171 . 16 , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % is a gelled , purified water solution , containing metronidazole at a concentration of 7 . 5 mg / g ( 0 . 75 % ) .
The gel is formulated at pH 5 . 5 .
The gel also contains carbopol 974 P , edetate disodium , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben and sodium hydroxide .
Each applicator full of 5 grams of vaginal gel contains approximately 37 . 5 mg of metronidazole .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Normal Subjects : Following a single , intravaginal 5 gram dose of metronidazole vaginal gel ( equivalent to 37 . 5 mg of metronidazole ) to 12 normal subjects , a mean maximum serum metronidazole concentration of 237 ng / mL was reported ( range : 152 to 368 ng / mL ) .
This is approximately 2 % of the mean maximum serum metronidazole concentration reported in the same subjects administered a single , oral 500 mg dose of metronidazole ( mean C max = 12 , 785 ng / mL , range : 10 , 013 to 17 , 400 ng / mL ) .
These peak concentrations were obtained in 6 to 12 hours after dosing with metronidazole vaginal gel and 1 to 3 hours after dosing with oral metronidazole .
The extent of exposure [ area under the curve ( AUC ) ] of metronidazole , when administered as a single intravaginal 5 gram dose of metronidazole vaginal gel ( equivalent to 37 . 5 mg of metronidazole ) , was approximately 4 % of the AUC of a single oral 500 mg dose of metronidazole ( 4977 ng - hr / mL and approximately 125 , 000 ng - hr / mL , respectively ) .
Dose - adjusted comparisons of AUCs demonstrated that , on a mg to mg comparison basis , the absorption of metronidazole , when administered vaginally , was approximately half that of an equivalent oral dosage .
Patients with Bacterial Vaginosis : Following single and multiple 5 gram doses of metronidazole vaginal gel to 4 patients with bacterial vaginosis , a mean maximum serum metronidazole concentration of 214 ng / mL on day one and 294 ng / mL ( range : 228 to 349 ng / mL ) on day five were reported .
Steady state metronidazole serum concentrations following oral dosages of 400 to 500 mg BID have been reported to range from 6 , 000 to 20 , 000 ng / mL .
MICROBIOLOGY The intracellular targets of action of metronidazole on anaerobes are largely unknown .
The 5 - nitro group of metronidazole is reduced by metabolically active anaerobes , and studies have demonstrated that the reduced form of the drug interacts with bacterial DNA .
However , it is not clear whether interaction with DNA alone is an important component in the bactericidal action of metronidazole on anaerobic organisms .
Culture and sensitivity testing of bacteria are not routinely performed to establish the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE . )
Standard methodology for the susceptibility testing of the potential bacterial vaginosis pathogens , Gardnerella vaginalis , Mobiluncus spp . , and Mycoplasma hominis , has not been defined .
Nonetheless , metronidazole is an antimicrobial agent active in vitro against most strains of the following organisms that have been reported to be associated with bacterial vaginosis : • Bacteroides spp .
• Gardnerella vaginalis • Mobiluncus spp .
• Peptostreptococcus spp .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % is indicated in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis ( formerly referred to as Haemophilus vaginitis , Gardnerella vaginitis , nonspecific vaginitis , Corynebacterium vaginitis , or anaerobic vaginosis ) .
• NOTE : For purposes of this indication , a clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis is usually defined by the presence of a homogeneous vaginal discharge that ( a ) has a pH of greater than 4 . 5 , ( b ) emits a “ fishy ” amine odor when mixed with a 10 % KOH solution , and ( c ) contains clue cells on microscopic examination .
Gram ’ s stain results consistent with a diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis include ( a ) markedly reduced or absent Lactobacillus morphology , ( b ) predominance of Gardnerella morphotype , and ( c ) absent or few white blood cells .
Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis , e . g . , Trichomonas vaginalis , Chlamydia trachomatis , N . gonorrhoeae , Candida albicans , and Herpes simplex virus should be ruled out .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % is contraindicated in patients with a prior history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole , parabens , other ingredients of the formulation , or other nitroimidazole derivatives .
WARNINGS Convulsive Seizures and Peripheral Neuropathy : Convulsive seizures and peripheral neuropathy , the latter characterized mainly by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity , have been reported in patients treated with oral or intravenous metronidazole .
The appearance of abnormal neurologic signs demands the prompt discontinuation of metronidazole vaginal gel therapy .
Metronidazole vaginal gel should be administered with caution to patients with central nervous system diseases .
Psychotic Reactions : Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients who were using oral metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently .
Metronidazole vaginal gel should not be administered to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks .
PRECAUTIONS Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure ( AUCs ) of metronidazole compared to 500 mg oral metronidazole dosing .
Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral metronidazole , the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently .
Data from well - controlled trials directly comparing metronidazole administered orally to metronidazole administered vaginally are not available .
General : Patients with severe hepatic disease metabolize metronidazole slowly .
This results in the accumulation of metronidazole and its metabolites in the plasma .
Accordingly , for such patients , metronidazole vaginal gel should be administered cautiously .
Known or previously unrecognized vaginal candidiasis may present more prominent symptoms during therapy with metronidazole vaginal gel .
Approximately 6 - 10 % of patients treated with metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % developed symptomatic Candida vaginitis during or immediately after therapy .
Disulfiram - like reaction to alcohol has been reported with oral metronidazole , thus the possibility of such a reaction occurring while on metronidazole vaginal gel therapy cannot be excluded .
Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % contains ingredients that may cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with the eye , rinse the eye with copious amounts of cool tap water .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS The patient should be cautioned about drinking alcohol while being treated with metronidazole vaginal gel .
While blood levels are significantly lower with metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % than with usual doses of oral metronidazole , a possible interaction with alcohol cannot be excluded .
The patient should be instructed not to engage in vaginal intercourse during treatment with this product .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other coumarin anticoagulants , resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time .
This possible drug interaction should be considered when metronidazole vaginal gel is prescribed for patients on this type of anticoagulant therapy .
In patients stabilized on relatively high doses of lithium , short - term oral metronidazole therapy has been associated with elevation of serum lithium levels and , in a few cases , signs of lithium toxicity .
Use of cimetidine with oral metronidazole may prolong the half - life and decrease plasma clearance of metronidazole .
DRUG & OR LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Metronidazole may interfere with certain types of determinations of serum chemistry values , such as aspartate aminotransferase ( AST , SGOT ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT , SGPT ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , triglycerides , and glucose hexokinase .
Values of zero may be observed .
All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation - reduction of nicotinamide - adenine dinucleotides ( NAD + NADH ) .
Interference is due to the similarity in absorbance peaks of NADH ( 340 nm ) and metronidazole ( 322 nm ) at pH 7 .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Metronidazole has shown evidence of carcinogenic activity in a number of studies involving chronic oral administration in mice and rats .
Prominent among the effects in the mouse was the promotion of pulmonary tumorigenesis .
This has been observed in all six reported studies in that species , including one study in which the animals were dosed on an intermittent schedule ( administration during every fourth week only ) .
At very high dose levels ( approximately 500 mg / kg / day ) , there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of malignant liver tumors in males .
Also , the published results of one of the mouse studies indicate an increase in the incidence of malignant lymphomas as well as pulmonary neoplasms associated with lifetime feeding of the drug .
All these effects are statistically significant .
Several long - term oral dosing studies in the rat have been completed .
There were statistically significant increases in the incidence of various neoplasms , particularly in mammary and hepatic tumors , among female rats administered metronidazole over those noted in the concurrent female control groups .
Two lifetime tumorigenicity studies in hamsters have been performed and reported to be negative .
These studies have not been conducted with 0 . 75 % metronidazole vaginal gel , which would result in significantly lower systemic blood levels than those obtained with oral formulations .
Although metronidazole has shown mutagenic activity in a number of in vitro assay systems , studies in mammals ( in vivo ) have failed to demonstrate a potential for genetic damage .
Fertility studies have been performed in mice up to six times the recommended human oral dose ( based on mg / m 2 ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B There has been no experience to date with the use of metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % in pregnant patients .
Metronidazole crosses the placental barrier and enters the fetal circulation rapidly .
No fetotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed when metronidazole was administered orally to pregnant mice at six times the recommended human dose ( based on mg / m 2 ) ; however , in a single small study where the drug was administered intraperitoneally , some intrauterine deaths were observed .
The relationship of these findings to the drug is unknown .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , and because metronidazole is a carcinogen in rodents , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS Specific studies of metronidazole levels in human milk following intravaginally administered metronidazole have not been performed .
However , metronidazole is secreted in human milk in concentrations similar to those found in plasma following oral administration of metronidazole .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for metronidazole in mouse and rat studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials There were no deaths or serious adverse events related to drug therapy in clinical trials involving 800 non - pregnant women who received metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % .
In a randomized , single - blind clinical trial of 505 non - pregnant women who received metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % once or twice a day , 2 patients ( one from each regimen ) discontinued therapy early due to drug - related adverse events .
One patient discontinued drug because of moderate abdominal cramping and loose stools , while the other patient discontinued drug because of mild vaginal burning .
These symptoms resolved after discontinuation of drug .
Medical events judged to be related , probably related , or possibly related to administration of metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % once or twice a day were reported for 195 / 505 ( 39 % ) patients .
The incidence of individual adverse reactions were not significantly different between the two regimens .
Unless percentages are otherwise stipulated , the incidence of individual adverse reactions listed below was less than 1 % : Reproductive : • Vaginal discharge ( 12 % ) , • Symptomatic Candida cervicitis / vaginitis ( 10 % ) , • Vulva / vaginal irritative symptoms ( 9 % ) , • Pelvic discomfort ( 3 % ) .
Gastrointestinal : • Gastrointestinal discomfort ( 7 % ) , • Nausea and / or vomiting ( 4 % ) , • Unusual taste ( 2 % ) , • Diarrhea / loose stools ( 1 % ) , • Decreased appetite ( 1 % ) , • Abdominal bloating / gas ; thirsty , dry mouth .
Neurologic : • Headache ( 5 % ) , • Dizziness ( 2 % ) , • Depression .
Dermatologic : • Generalized itching or rash .
Other : • Unspecified cramping ( 1 % ) , • Fatigue , • Darkened urine .
In previous clinical trials submitted for approved labeling of metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % the following was also reported : Laboratory : • Increased / decreased white blood cell counts ( 1 . 7 % ) .
Other Metronidazole Formulations : Other effects that have been reported in association with the use of topical ( dermal ) formulations of metronidazole include skin irritation , transient skin erythema , and mild skin dryness and burning .
None of these adverse events exceeded an incidence of 2 % of patients .
Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure ( AUC ) of metronidazole compared to 500 mg oral metronidazole dosing .
Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral metronidazole , the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently .
The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of metronidazole : • Cardiovascular : Flattening of the T - wave may be seen in electrocardiographic tracings .
• Central Nervous System : ( See WARNINGS . )
Headache , dizziness , syncope , ataxia , confusion , convulsive seizures , peripheral neuropathy , vertigo , incoordination , irritability , depression , weakness , insomnia .
• Gastrointestinal : Abdominal discomfort , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , an unpleasant metallic taste , anorexia , epigastric distress , abdominal cramping , constipation , “ furry ” tongue , glossitis , stomatitis , pancreatitis , and modification of taste of alcoholic beverages .
• Genitourinary : Overgrowth of Candida in the vagina , dyspareunia , decreased libido , proctitis .
• Hematopoietic : Reversible neutropenia , reversible thrombocytopenia .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions : Urticaria ; erythematous rash ; flushing ; nasal congestion ; dryness of the mouth , vagina , or vulva ; fever ; pruritus ; fleeting joint pains .
• Renal : Dysuria , cystitis , polyuria , incontinence , a sense of pelvic pressure , darkened urine .
OVERDOSAGE There is no human experience with overdosage of metronidazole vaginal gel .
Vaginally applied metronidazole gel , 0 . 75 % could be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See WARNINGS . )
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one applicator full of metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % ( approximately 5 grams containing approximately 37 . 5 mg of metronidazole ) intravaginally once or twice a day for 5 days .
For once a day dosing , metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % should be administered at bedtime .
Metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % is supplied in a 70 gram tube and packaged with 5 vaginal applicators .
NDC : 70519 - 0539 - 00 1 CARTON .
70 g TUBE WITH APPLICATOR Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , single - blind clinical trial of non - pregnant women with bacterial vaginosis who received metronidazole vaginal gel USP , 0 . 75 % daily for 5 days , the clinical cure rates for evaluable patients determined at 4 weeks after completion of therapy for the QD and BID regimens were 98 / 185 ( 53 % ) and 109 / 190 ( 57 % ) , respectively .
Manufactured by TOLMAR Inc .
Fort Collins , CO 80526 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 04486 Rev . 6 11 / 16 Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 SPL PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Metronidazole Vaginal Gel USP , 0 . 75 % DIRECTIONS FOR USE 1 .
Filling the applicator • Remove cap and puncture metal seal on tube with the pointed tip of cap .
( See Figure 1 ) • Screw end of applicator onto tube .
( See Figure 2 ) • Gently squeeze the tube from the bottom to fill applicator .
Plunger will stop when the applicator is full .
( See Figure 3 ) • Unscrew applicator and replace cap on tube .
2 .
Inserting the applicator • The applicator may be inserted while lying on your back with your knees bent or in any comfortable position .
• Hold filled applicator by barrel , and gently insert into vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
( See Figure 4 ) • Slowly press the plunger until it stops to deposit gel into vagina and then withdraw the applicator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 3 .
Care of the applicator If physician prescribes twice - a - day dosing : • After use , pull the plunger out of the barrel .
( See Figure 5 ) • Wash both plunger and barrel in warm soapy water and rinse thoroughly .
• To reassemble applicator , gently push plunger back into barrel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] IMPORTANT : For once - a - day dosing , apply one applicator full at bedtime .
For twice - a - day dosing , apply one applicator full each morning and evening for five days , or as directed by physician .
WARNINGS : • If significant irritation develops from the use of this medication , discontinue use and consult your physician .
• Do not use during pregnancy except under the supervision of a physician .
• Keep this and all medications out of reach of children .
• For vaginal use only .
Not for use in the eyes , on the skin or in the mouth .
Store at room temperature .
Avoid exposure to extreme heat or cold .
See end of carton and crimp end of tube for lot number and expiration date .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by TOLMAR Inc .
Fort Collins , CO 80526 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 04486 Rev . 6 11 / 16 Metronidazole Vaginal Gel USP , 0 . 75 % INSTRUCCIONES PARA EL USO 1 .
Como llenar el aplicador • Quite la tapa y con la punta de la misma perfore el sello metálico del tubo .
( Véase Ilustración 1 ) • Enrosque el extremo del aplicador en el tubo .
( Véase Ilustración 2 ) • Exprima el tubo suavemente desde abajo para llenar el aplicador .
Cuando el aplicador esté lleno , el émbolo dejará de moverse .
( Véase Ilustración 3 ) • Desenrosque el aplicador y reponga la tapa en el tubo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 Figure 3 2 .
Como introducir el aplicador • El aplicador puede introducirse estando acostada boca arriba con las rodillas dobladas , o en cualquier posición en que se sienta cómoda .
• Sostenga el aplicador lleno por su cañón , e introduzcalo suave y profundamente en la vagina de manera cómoda .
( Véase Ilustración 4 ) • Para depositar la gelatina dentro de la vagina , suavemente empuje el émbolo hasta que deje de moverse y entonces saque el aplicador .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ilustración 4 3 .
Como limpiar el aplicador Si la prescripción médica indica una dosis de dos veces al día : • Después de usar el aplicador , saque el émbolo del cañón .
( Véase Ilustración 5 ) • Lave el émbolo y el cañón con agua tibia y jabón y luego enjuaguelos completamente .
• Para volver a armar el aplicador , suavemente empuje el émbolo en su sitio dentro del cañón .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ilustración 5 IMPORTANTE : Para dosis de una vez al día , introduzca un aplicador lleno por la noche .
Para dosis de dos veces al día , introduzca un aplicador lleno cada mañana y cada noche durante cinco días , o según las indicaciones de su médico .
ADVERTENCIAS : • Si una irritación significante se desarrolla debida al uso de este medicamento , deje de usarlo y consulte a su médico .
• No lo utilice cuando esté embarazada , excepto bajo la supervisión de un médico .
• Mantenga éste y todo medicamento fuera del alcance de los niños .
• Para uso vaginal únicamente .
No debe aplicarse a los ojos , en la piel , ni en la boca .
Guarde a una temperatura ambiente .
Evite que se exponga al calor o frío excesivo .
Vea la feche de vencimiento y el número del lote en la base del cartón y en el sello del tubo .
Llame a su doctor para opinión médica sobre efectos secundarios .
Usted puede reportar los efectos secundarios a la FDA al 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by TOLMAR Inc .
Fort Collins , CO 80526 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 04486 Rev . 6 11 / 16 Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ilustración 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ilustración 2 Ilustración 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DRUG : Metronidazole GENERIC : Metronidazole DOSAGE : GEL ADMINSTRATION : VAGINAL NDC : 70518 - 0539 - 0 PACKAGING : 70 g in 1 TUBE , WITH APPLICATOR OUTER PACKAGING : 1 in 1 CARTON ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • METRONIDAZOLE 7 . 5 mg in 1 g INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE B ( ALLYL PENTAERYTHRITOL CROSSLINKED ) • METHYLPARABEN • PROPYLPARABEN • EDETATE DISODIUM • PROPYLENE GLYCOL • SODIUM HYDROXIDE • WATER [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
