SPL UNCLASSIFIED Rx only DERIVED FROM PORCINE INTESTINAL MUCOSA .
Available as : Preservative Free or Contains Benzyl Alcohol or Parabens DESCRIPTION Heparin is a heterogeneous group of straight - chain anionic mucopolysaccharides , called glycosaminoglycans , having anticoagulant properties .
Although others may be present , the main sugars occurring in heparin are : ( 1 ) α - L - iduronic acid 2 - sulfate , ( 2 ) 2 - deoxy - 2 - sulfamino - α - D - glucose 6 - sulfate , ( 3 ) ß - D - glucuronic acid , ( 4 ) 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - α - D - glucose and ( 5 ) α - L - iduronic acid .
These sugars are present in decreasing amounts , usually in the order ( 2 ) > ( 1 ) > ( 4 ) > ( 3 ) > ( 5 ) , and are joined by glycosidic linkages , forming polymers of varying sizes .
Heparin is strongly acidic because of its content of covalently linked sulfate and carboxylic acid groups .
In heparin sodium , the acidic protons of the sulfate units are partially replaced by sodium ions .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP is a sterile solution of heparin sodium derived from porcine intestinal mucosa , standardized for anticoagulant activity , in water for injection .
It is to be administered by intravenous or deep subcutaneous routes .
The potency is determined by a biological assay using a USP reference standard based on units of heparin activity per milligram .
Structure of Heparin Sodium ( representative subunits ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free , is available as follows : Each mL of the 1 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 1 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 9 mg sodium chloride ; Water for Injection q . s . Made isotonic with sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Each 0 . 5 mL of the 5 , 000 units per 0 . 5 mL preparation contains : 5 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol , is available as follows : Each mL of the 5 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 5 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 6 mg sodium chloride ; 15 mg benzyl alcohol ( as a preservative ) ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 10 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 10 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 5 mg sodium chloride ; 10 . 42 mg benzyl alcohol ( as a preservative ) ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with parabens , is available as follows : Each mL of the 1 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 1 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 9 mg sodium chloride ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Made isotonic with sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 5 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 5 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 5 mg sodium chloride ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 10 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 10 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 20 , 000 units per mL preparation contains : 20 , 000 USP Heparin units ( porcine ) ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Heparin inhibits reactions that lead to the clotting of blood and the formation of fibrin clots both in vitro and in vivo .
Heparin acts at multiple sites in the normal coagulation system .
Small amounts of heparin in combination with antithrombin III ( heparin cofactor ) can inhibit thrombosis by inactivating activated Factor X and inhibiting the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin .
Once active thrombosis has developed , larger amounts of heparin can inhibit further coagulation by inactivating thrombin and preventing the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin .
Heparin also prevents the formation of a stable fibrin clot by inhibiting the activation of the fibrin stabilizing factor .
Bleeding time is usually unaffected by heparin .
Clotting time is prolonged by full therapeutic doses of heparin ; in most cases , it is not measurably affected by low doses of heparin .
Patients over 60 years of age , following similar doses of heparin , may have higher plasma levels of heparin and longer activated partial thromboplastin times ( APTTs ) compared with patients under 60 years of age .
Peak plasma levels of heparin are achieved two to four hours following subcutaneous administration , although there are considerable individual variations .
Loglinear plots of heparin plasma concentrations with time , for a wide range of dose levels , are linear , which suggests the absence of zero order processes .
Liver and the reticuloendothelial system are the sites of biotransformation .
The biphasic elimination curve , a rapidly declining alpha phase ( t 1 ⁄ 2 = 10 minutes ) and after the age of 40 a slower beta phase , indicates uptake in organs .
The absence of a relationship between anticoagulant half - life and concentration half - life may reflect factors such as protein binding of heparin .
Heparin does not have fibrinolytic activity ; therefore , it will not lyse existing clots .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Heparin Sodium Injection is indicated for : Anticoagulant therapy in prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension ; Low - dose regimen for prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who , for other reasons , are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease ( see DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ) ; Prophylaxis and treatment of pulmonary embolism ; Atrial fibrillation with embolization ; Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies ( disseminated intravascular coagulation ) ; Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery ; Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism .
Heparin may also be employed as an anticoagulant in blood transfusions , extracorporeal circulation , and dialysis procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Heparin sodium should NOT be used in patients with the following conditions : Severe thrombocytopenia ; When suitable blood coagulation tests , e . g . , the whole blood clotting time , partial thromboplastin time , etc . , cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( this contraindication refers to full - dose heparin ; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low - dose heparin ) ; An uncontrollable active bleeding state ( see WARNINGS ) , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation .
WARNINGS Heparin is not intended for intramuscular use .
Fatal Medication Errors Do not use Heparin Sodium Injection as a “ catheter lock flush ” product .
Heparin Sodium Injection is supplied in vials containing various strengths of heparin , including vials that contain a highly concentrated solution of 10 , 000 units in 1 mL .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred in pediatric patients due to medication errors in which 1 mL Heparin Sodium Injection vials were confused with 1 mL “ catheter lock flush ” vials .
Carefully examine all Heparin Sodium Injection vials to confirm the correct vial choice prior to administration of the drug .
Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity Use preservative - free HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION in neonates and infants .
The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events and death in pediatric patients .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Hypersensitivity Patients with documented hypersensitivity to heparin should be given the drug only in clearly life - threatening situations ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Hypersensitivity ) .
Hemorrhage Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
An unexplained fall in hematocrit , fall in blood pressure or any other unexplained symptom should lead to serious consideration of a hemorrhagic event .
Heparin sodium should be used with extreme caution in disease states in which there is increased danger of hemorrhage .
Some of the conditions in which increased danger of hemorrhage exists are : Cardiovascular — Subacute bacterial endocarditis , severe hypertension .
Surgical — During and immediately following ( a ) spinal tap or spinal anesthesia or ( b ) major surgery , especially involving the brain , spinal cord , or eye .
Hematologic — Conditions associated with increased bleeding tendencies , such as hemophilia , thrombocytopenia and some vascular purpuras .
Gastrointestinal — Ulcerative lesions and continuous tube drainage of the stomach or small intestine .
Other — Menstruation , liver disease with impaired hemostasis .
Coagulation Testing When heparin sodium is administered in therapeutic amounts , its dosage should be regulated by frequent blood coagulation tests .
If the coagulation test is unduly prolonged or if hemorrhage occurs , heparin sodium should be promptly discontinued ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia has been reported to occur in patients receiving heparin with a reported incidence of up to 30 % .
Platelet counts should be obtained at baseline and periodically during heparin administration .
Mild thrombocytopenia ( count greater than 100 , 000 / mm 3 ) may remain stable or reverse even if heparin is continued .
However , thrombocytopenia of any degree should be monitored closely .
If the count falls below 100 , 000 / mm 3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops ( see Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ) , the heparin product should be discontinued , and , if necessary , an alternative anticoagulant administered .
Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) is a serious antibody - mediated reaction resulting from irreversible aggregation of platelets .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition referred to as Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) .
Thrombotic events may also be the initial presentation for HITT .
These serious thromboembolic events include deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , cerebral vein thrombosis , limb ischemia , stroke , myocardial infarction , mesenteric thrombosis , renal arterial thrombosis , skin necrosis , gangrene of the extremities that may lead to amputation , and possibly death .
Thrombocytopenia of any degree should be monitored closely .
If the platelet count falls below 100 , 000 / mm 3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , the heparin product should be promptly discontinued and alternative anticoagulants considered , if patients require continued anticoagulation .
Delayed Onset of HIT and HITT Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy .
Patients presenting with thrombocytopenia or thrombosis after discontinuation of heparin should be evaluated for HIT and HITT .
PRECAUTIONS General Thrombocytopenia , Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) See WARNINGS .
Heparin Resistance — Increased resistance to heparin is frequently encountered in fever , thrombosis , thrombophlebitis , infections with thrombosing tendencies , myocardial infarction , cancer and in postsurgical patients .
Increased Risk to Older Patients , Especially Women — A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age .
Laboratory Tests Periodic platelet counts , hematocrits , and tests for occult blood in stool are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration ( see DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions Oral Anticoagulants — Heparin sodium may prolong the one - stage prothrombin time .
Therefore , when heparin sodium is given with dicumarol or warfarin sodium , a period of at least five hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose should elapse before blood is drawn , if a valid prothrombin time is to be obtained .
Platelet Inhibitors — Drugs such as acetylsalicylic acid , dextran , phenylbutazone , ibuprofen , indomethacin , dipyridamole , hydroxychloroquine and others that interfere with platelet - aggregation reactions ( the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients ) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium .
Other Interactions — Digitalis , tetracyclines , nicotine or antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium .
Intravenous nitroglycerin administered to heparinized patients may result in a decrease of the partial thromboplastin time with subsequent rebound effect upon discontinuation of nitroglycerin .
Careful monitoring of partial thromboplastin time and adjustment of heparin dosage are recommended during coadministration of heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin .
Drug / Laboratory Tests Interactions Hyperaminotransferasemia — Significant elevations of aminotransferase ( SGOT [ S - AST ] and SGPT [ S - ALT ] ) levels have occurred in a high percentage of patients ( and healthy subjects ) who have received heparin .
Since aminotransferase determinations are important in the differential diagnosis of myocardial infarction , liver disease and pulmonary emboli , increases that might be caused by drugs ( like heparin ) should be interpreted with caution .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential of heparin .
Also , no reproduction studies in animals have been performed concerning mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies on heparin use in pregnant women .
In published reports , heparin exposure during pregnancy did not show evidence of an increased risk of adverse maternal or fetal outcomes in humans .
Heparin sodium does not cross the placenta , based on human and animal studies .
Administration of heparin to pregnant animals at doses higher than the maximum human daily dose based on body weight resulted in increased resorptions .
Use heparin sodium during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
If available , preservative - free Heparin Sodium Injection is recommended when heparin therapy is needed during pregnancy .
There are no known adverse outcomes associated with fetal exposure to the preservative benzyl alcohol through maternal drug administration ; however , the preservative benzyl alcohol can cause serious adverse events and death when administered intravenously to neonates and infants ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
In a published study conducted in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received heparin intravenously during organogenesis at a dose of 10 , 000 units / kg / day , approximately 10 times the maximum human daily dose based on body weight .
The number of early resorptions increased in both species .
There was no evidence of teratogenic effects .
Nursing Mothers If available , preservative - free HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is recommended when heparin therapy is needed during lactation .
Due to its large molecular weight , heparin is not likely to be excreted in human milk , and any heparin in milk would not be orally absorbed by a nursing infant .
Benzyl alcohol present in maternal serum is likely to cross into human milk and may be orally absorbed by a nursing infant .
Exercise caution when administering HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION to a nursing mother ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Pediatric Use There are no adequate and well - controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients .
Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience ( see DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION , Pediatric Use ) .
Carefully examine all Heparin Sodium Injection vials to confirm choice of the correct strength prior to administration of the drug .
Pediatric patients , including neonates , have died as a result of medication errors in which HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION vials have been confused with “ catheter lock flush ” vials ( see WARNINGS , Fatal Medication Errors ) .
Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity Use preservative - free Heparin Sodium Injection in neonates and infants .
The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events and death in pediatric patients .
The “ gasping syndrome ” ( characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , gasping respirations , and high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine ) has been associated with benzyl alcohol dosages > 99 mg / kg / day in neonates and low - birth weight infants .
Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the “ gasping syndrome ” , the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Practitioners administering this and other medications containing benzyl alcohol should consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources .
Geriatric Use A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients over 60 years of age , especially women ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Clinical studies indicate that lower doses of heparin may be indicated in these patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hemorrhage Hemorrhage is the chief complication that may result from heparin therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
An overly prolonged clotting time or minor bleeding during therapy can usually be controlled by withdrawing the drug ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
It should be appreciated that gastrointestinal or urinary tract bleeding during anticoagulant therapy may indicate the presence of an underlying occult lesion .
Bleeding can occur at any site but certain specific hemorrhagic complications may be difficult to detect : ( a ) Adrenal hemorrhage , with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency , has occurred during anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , such treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop signs and symptoms of acute adrenal hemorrhage and insufficiency .
Initiation of corrective therapy should not depend on laboratory confirmation of the diagnosis , since any delay in an acute situation may result in the patient ’ s death .
( b ) Ovarian ( corpus luteum ) hemorrhage developed in a number of women of reproductive age receiving short - or long - term anticoagulant therapy .
This complication , if unrecognized , may be fatal .
( c ) Retroperitoneal hemorrhage .
Thrombocytopenia , Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) and Delayed Onset of HIT and HITT See WARNINGS .
Local Irritation Local irritation , erythema , mild pain , hematoma or ulceration may follow deep subcutaneous ( intrafat ) injection of heparin sodium .
These complications are much more common after intramuscular use , and such use is not recommended .
Hypersensitivity Generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported , with chills , fever and urticaria as the most usual manifestations , and asthma , rhinitis , lacrimation , headache , nausea and vomiting , and anaphylactoid reactions , including shock , occurring more rarely .
Itching and burning , especially on the plantar side of the feet , may occur ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Certain episodes of painful , ischemic and cyanosed limbs have in the past been attributed to allergic vasospastic reactions .
Whether these are in fact identical to the thrombocytopenia - associated complications , remains to be determined .
Miscellaneous Osteoporosis following long - term administration of high doses of heparin , cutaneous necrosis after systemic administration , suppression of aldosterone synthesis , delayed transient alopecia , priapism , and rebound hyperlipemia on discontinuation of heparin sodium have also been reported .
Significant elevations of aminotransferase ( SGOT [ S - AST ] and SGPT [ S - ALT ] ) levels have occurred in a high percentage of patients ( and healthy subjects ) who have received heparin .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms Bleeding is the chief sign of heparin overdosage .
Nosebleeds , blood in urine or tarry stools may be noted as the first sign of bleeding .
Easy bruising or petechial formations may precede frank bleeding .
Treatment Neutralization of Heparin Effect — When clinical circumstances ( bleeding ) require reversal of heparinization , protamine sulfate ( 1 % solution ) by slow infusion will neutralize heparin sodium .
No more than 50 mg should be administered , very slowly , in any 10 minute period .
Each mg of protamine sulfate neutralizes approximately 100 USP heparin units .
The amount of protamine required decreases over time as heparin is metabolized .
Although the metabolism of heparin is complex , it may , for the purpose of choosing a protamine dose , be assumed to have a half - life of about 1 / 2 hour after intravenous injection .
Administration of protamine sulfate can cause severe hypotensive and anaphylactoid reactions .
Because fatal reactions often resembling anaphylaxis have been reported , the drug should be given only when resuscitation techniques and treatment of anaphylactoid shock are readily available .
For additional information consult the labeling of Protamine Sulfate Injection , USP products .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium Injection vial prior to administration of the drug to a patient ( see WARNINGS , Fatal Medication Errors ) .
The 1 mL vial must not be confused with a “ catheter lock flush ” vial or other 1 mL vial of inappropriate strength .
Confirm that you have selected the correct medication and strength prior to administration of the drug .
When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration , the container should be inverted at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution .
Heparin sodium is not effective by oral administration and should be given by intermittent intravenous injection , intravenous infusion , or deep subcutaneous ( intrafat , i . e . , above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer ) injection .
The intramuscular route of administration should be avoided because of the frequent occurrence of hematoma at the injection site .
The dosage of heparin sodium should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s coagulation test results .
When heparin is given by continuous intravenous infusion , the coagulation time should be determined approximately every four hours in the early stages of treatment .
When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection , coagulation tests should be performed before each injection during the early stages of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter .
Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time ( APTT ) is 1 . 5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2 . 5 to 3 times the control value .
After deep subcutaneous ( intrafat ) injections , tests for adequacy of dosage are best performed on samples drawn four to six hours after the injection .
Periodic platelet counts , hematocrits and tests for occult blood in stool are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration .
Converting to Oral Anticoagulant When an oral anticoagulant of the coumarin or similar type is to be begun in patients already receiving heparin sodium , baseline and subsequent tests of prothrombin activity must be determined at a time when heparin activity is too low to affect the prothrombin time .
This is about five hours after the last IV bolus and 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose .
If continuous IV heparin infusion is used , prothrombin time can usually be measured at any time .
In converting from heparin to an oral anticoagulant , the dose of the oral anticoagulant should be the usual initial amount and thereafter prothrombin time should be determined at the usual intervals .
To ensure continuous anticoagulation , it is advisable to continue full heparin therapy for several days after the prothrombin time has reached the therapeutic range .
Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering .
Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full - Dose Heparin Although dosage must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests , the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pediatric Use Use preservative - free HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION in neonates and infants ( see WARNINGS , Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients .
Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience .
In general , the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients : Initial Dose 75 to 100 units / kg ( IV bolus over 10 minutes ) Maintenance Dose Infants : 25 to 30 units / kg / hour ; Infants < 2 months have the highest requirements ( average 28 units / kg / hour ) Children > 1 year of age : 18 to 20 units / kg / hour ; Older children may require less heparin , similar to weight - adjusted adult dosage Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain aPTT of 60 to 85 seconds , assuming this reflects an anti - Factor Xa level of 0 . 35 to 0 . 70 .
Geriatric Use Patients over 60 years of age may require lower doses of heparin .
Surgery of the Heart and Blood Vessels Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open - heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight .
Frequently , a dose of 300 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes , or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes .
Low - Dose Prophylaxis of Postoperative Thromboembolism A number of well - controlled clinical trials have demonstrated that low - dose heparin prophylaxis , given just prior to and after surgery , will reduce the incidence of postoperative deep vein thrombosis in the legs ( as measured by the I - 125 fibrinogen technique and venography ) and of clinical pulmonary embolism .
The most widely used dosage has been 5 , 000 units 2 hours before surgery and 5 , 000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for seven days or until the patient is fully ambulatory , whichever is longer .
The heparin is given by deep subcutaneous injection in the arm or abdomen with a fine needle ( 25 to 26 gauge ) to minimize tissue trauma .
A concentrated solution of heparin sodium is recommended .
Such prophylaxis should be reserved for patients over the age of 40 who are undergoing major surgery .
Patients with bleeding disorders and those having neurosurgery , spinal anesthesia , eye surgery or potentially sanguineous operations should be excluded , as well as patients receiving oral anticoagulants or platelet - active drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
The value of such prophylaxis in hip surgery has not been established .
The possibility of increased bleeding during surgery or postoperatively should be borne in mind .
If such bleeding occurs , discontinuance of heparin and neutralization with protamine sulfate are advisable .
If clinical evidence of thromboembolism develops despite low - dose prophylaxis , full therapeutic doses of anticoagulants should be given unless contraindicated .
All patients should be screened prior to heparinization to rule out bleeding disorders , and monitoring should be performed with appropriate coagulation tests just prior to surgery .
Coagulation test values should be normal or only slightly elevated .
There is usually no need for daily monitoring of the effect of low - dose heparin in patients with normal coagulation parameters .
Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers ’ operating directions carefully .
Blood Transfusion Addition of 400 to 600 USP units per 100 mL of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation .
Usually , 7 , 500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or 75 , 000 USP units / 1 , 000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ) and mixed ; from this sterile solution , 6 to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood .
Laboratory Samples Addition of 70 to 150 units of heparin sodium per 10 to 20 mL sample of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation of the sample .
Leukocyte counts should be performed on heparinized blood within two hours after addition of the heparin .
Heparinized blood should not be used for isoagglutinin , complement , or erythrocyte fragility tests or platelet counts .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION , USP 50 , 000 USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1409 - 1 HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION , USP 50 , 000 USP UNITS PER 5 mL ( 10 , 000 USP UNITS per mL ) 5 mL VIAL NDC 51662 - 1409 - 2 HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION , USP 50 , 000 USP UNITS PER 5 mL ( 10 , 000 USP UNITS per mL ) 5 mL VIAL , 1 VIAL PER POUCH NDC 51662 - 1409 - 3 HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION , USP 50 , 000 USP UNITS PER 5 mL ( 10 , 000 USP UNITS per mL ) 5 mL VIAL , 1 VIAL PER POUCH , 25 POUCHES PER CASE HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate .
Discard unused portion .
This container closure is not made from natural rubber latex .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES Tahata T , Shigehito M , Kusuhara K , Ueda Y , et al .
Delayed - Onset of Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia – A Case Report – J Jpn Assn Torca Surg .
1992 ; 40 ( 3 ) : 110 - 111 .
Warkentin T , Kelton J . Delayed - Onset Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis .
Annals of Internal Medicine .
2001 ; 135 : 502 - 506 .
Rice L , Attisha W , Drexler A , Francis J . Delayed - Onset Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia .
Annals of Internal Medicine , 2002 ; 136 : 210 - 215 .
Dieck J . , C . Rizo - Patron , et al . ( 1990 ) .
“ A New Manifestation and Treatment Alternative for Heparin - Induced Thrombosis . ”
Chest 98 ( 1524 - 26 ) .
Smythe M , Stephens J , Mattson .
Delayed - Onset Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia .
Annals of Emergency Medicine , 2005 ; 45 ( 4 ) : 417 - 419 .
Divgi A . ( Reprint ) , Thumma S . , Hari P . , Friedman K . Delayed Onset Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) Presenting After Undocumented Drug Exposure as Post - Angiography Pulmonary Embolism .
Blood .
2003 ; 102 ( 11 ) : 127 b . SPL UNCLASSIFIED [ MULTIMEDIA ] For Product Inquiry : 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 451209 F Revised : March 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - NDC 51662 - 1409 - 1 Vial Labeling March 2021 Update [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 51662 - 1409 - 2 POUCH LABELING VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] POUCH LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 51662 - 1409 - 3 CASE LABELING CASE LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZED RFID LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
