MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) Sterile DESCRIPTION MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is a multiple dose anti - infective steroid combination in sterile suspension form for topical application .
The chemical structure for the active ingredient , dexamethasone , is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight = 392 . 45 g / mol C22H29FO5 Established name : dexamethasone Chemical name : pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
The other active ingredients are neomycin sulfate and polymyxin B sulfate .
The structural formula for neomycin sulfate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neomycin B ( R 1 = H , R 2 = CH 2 NH 2 ) Neomycin C ( R 1 = CH 2 NH 2 , R 2 = H ) The structural formula for polymyxin B sulfate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) contains : Actives : neomycin sulfate equivalent to neomycin 3 . 5 mg , polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units , dexamethasone 0 . 1 % .
Inactives : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 004 % ( preservative ) , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , hypromellose 2910 0 . 5 % , polysorbate 20 , purified water , sodium chloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow healing .
Since corticosteroids may inhibit the body ' s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
When a decision to administer both a corticosteroid and an antimicrobial is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of both drugs is administered , plus assured compatibility of ingredients when both types of drugs are in the same formulation and , particularly , that the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial infection exists .
Ocular corticosteroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of corticosteroids use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical , radiation or thermal burns ; or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye .
The particular anti - infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilusinfluenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against : Serratia marcescens and Streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
MAXITROL is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may also suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
Acute purulent or parasitic infections of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure ( IOP ) should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
IOP should be checked frequently .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
Products containing neomycin sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
Sensitivity to topically administered aminoglycosides , such as neomycin , may occur in some patients .
Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema , itching , urticaria , skin rash , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reactions , or bullous reactions .
If hypersensitivity develops during use of the product , treatment should be discontinued .
Cross - hypersensitivity to other aminoglycosides can occur , and the possibility that patients who become sensitized to topical neomycin may also be sensitive to other topical and / or systemic aminoglycosides should be considered .
PRECAUTIONS General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 mL of MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy , and where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be reevaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored ( seeWARNINGS ) .
Prolonged use of topical anti - bacterial agents may give rise to overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms including fungi .
Information for Patients If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the bottle tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this bottle by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Patients should be advised that their vision may be temporarily blurred following dosing with MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) .
Care should be exercised in operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate .
Treatment of cultured human lymphocytes in vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentration ( 80 mcg / mL ) tested .
However , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
Pregnancy Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , prolonged or repeated corticoid use during pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of intra - uterine growth retardation .
MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk , could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component , the anti - infective component , or the combination .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations .
The reactions due to the corticosteroid component are : elevation of IOP with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause perforation of the globe .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , and conjunctival hyperemia have occasionally been reported following use of steroids .
Additional adverse reactions identified from post marketing use include ulcerative keratitis , headache , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone use : Cushing ’ s syndrome and adrenal suppression may occur after use of dexamethasone in excess of the listed dosing instructions in predisposed patients , including children and patients treated with CYP3A4 inhibitors .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One to two drops in the conjunctival sac ( s ) .
In severe disease , drops may be used hourly , being tapered to discontinuation as the inflammation subsides .
In mild disease , drops may be used up to four to six times daily .
Not more than 20 mL should be prescribed initially , and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
HOW SUPPLIED MAXITROL ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is supplied as a sterile ophthalmic suspension in a white , low density polyethylene dispenser with a pink , polypropylene cap as follows : 5 mL in 8 mL bottle … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
NDC 0078 - 0792 - 05 Storage : Store upright at 8 ° C to 27 ° C ( 46 ° F to 80 ° F ) .
After opening , MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
© Novartis Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 Revised : June 2021 T2021 - 79 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0792 - 05 Maxitrol ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) 5 mL Sterile Novartis [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
