FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 Indications and Usage 2 Dosage and Administration 2 . 1 General Administration 2 . 2 Adult Dosage 2 . 3 Pediatric Dosage 3 Dosage Forms and Strengths 4 Contraindications 5 Warnings and Precautions5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Tachycardia 5 . 2 Acute Glaucoma 5 . 3 Pyloric Obstruction 5 . 4 Complete Urinary Retention 5 . 5 Viscid Plugs 6 Adverse Reactions 7 Drug Interactions 7 . 1 Mexiletine 8 Use in Specific Populations 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 10 Overdosage 11 Description 12 Clinical Pharmacology 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 Non Clinical Toxicology 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 16 How Supplied / Storage and Handeling * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION .
ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , for intravenous use Initial U . S . Approval : 1960 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life threatening muscarinic effects .
( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous administration .
( 2 - 2 . 1 , 2 - 2 . 3 ) Titrate according to heart rate , PR interval , blood pressure and symptoms .
( 2 - 2 . 1 ) Adult dosage - Antisialagogue or for antivagal effects : Initial single dose of 0 . 5 mg to 1 mg .
( 2 - 2 . 2 ) - Antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning : Initial single dose of 2 mg to 3 mg , repeated every 20 – 30 minutes .
( 2 - 2 . 2 ) - Bradyasystolic cardiac arrest : 1 mg dose , repeated every 3 – 5 minutes if asystole persists .
( 2 - 2 . 2 ) Patients with Coronary Artery Disease : Total dose should not exceed 0 . 03 mg / kg to 0 . 04 mg / kg .
( 5 - 5 . 1 ) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 0 . 1 mg / mL injection in LifeShield ™ Abboject ™ Glass Syringe ( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Tachycardia ( 5 - 5 . 1 ) Glaucoma ( 5 - 5 . 2 ) Pyloric obstruction ( 5 - 5 . 3 ) Worsening urinary retention ( 5 - 5 . 4 ) Viscid bronchial plugs ( 5 - 5 . 5 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions are directly related to atropine ' s antimuscarinic action .
Dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , photophobia and tachycardia commonly occur with chronic administration of therapeutic doses .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hospira , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 441 - 4100 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Mexiletine : Decreases rate of mexiletine absorption .
( 7 - 7 . 1 ) Revised : 3 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP , is indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life threatening muscarinic effects , e . g . , as an antisialagogue , an antivagal agent , an antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning , and to treat bradyasystolic cardiac arrest .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 General Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
For intravenous administration .
Titrate based on heart rate , PR interval , blood pressure and symptoms .
2 . 2 Adult Dosage Table 1 : Recommended Dosage [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Pediatric Dosage Dosing in pediatric populations has not been well studied .
Usual initial dose is 0 . 01 to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Injection : 0 . 1 mg / mL in LifeShield ™ Abboject ™ Glass Syringes 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Tachycardia When the recurrent use of atropine is essential in patients with coronary artery disease , the total dose should be restricted to 2 to 3 mg ( maximum 0 . 03 to 0 . 04 mg / kg ) to avoid the detrimental effects of atropine - induced tachycardia on myocardial oxygen demand .
5 . 2 Acute Glaucoma Atropine may precipitate acute glaucoma .
5 . 3 Pyloric Obstruction Atropine may convert partial organic pyloric stenosis into complete obstruction .
5 . 4 Complete Urinary Retention Atropine may lead to complete urinary retention in patients with prostatic hypertrophy .
5 . 5 Viscid Plugs Atropine may cause inspissation of bronchial secretions and formation of viscid plugs in patients with chronic lung disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of atropine sulfate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most of the side effects of atropine are directly related to its antimuscarinic action .
Dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , photophobia and tachycardia commonly occur .
Anhidrosis can produce heat intolerance .
Constipation and difficulty in micturition may occur in elderly patients .
Occasional hypersensitivity reactions have been observed , especially skin rashes which in some instances progressed to exfoliation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Mexiletine Atropine Sulfate Injection decreased the rate of mexiletine absorption without altering the relative oral bioavailability ; this delay in mexiletine absorption was reversed by the combination of atropine and intravenous metoclopramide during pretreatment for anesthesia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine .
It also is not known whether atropine can cause fetal harm when given to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Trace amounts of atropine was found in breast milk .
The clinical impact of this is not known .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Recommendations for use in pediatric patients are not based on clinical trials .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive dosing may cause palpitation , dilated pupils , difficulty in swallowing , hot dry skin , thirst , dizziness , restlessness , tremor , fatigue and ataxia .
Toxic doses lead to restlessness and excitement , hallucinations , delirium and coma .
Depression and circulatory collapse occur only with severe intoxication .
In such cases , blood pressure declines and death due to respiratory failure may ensue following paralysis and coma .
The fatal adult dose of atropine is not known .
In pediatric populations , 10 mg or less may be fatal .
In the event of toxic overdosage , a short acting barbiturate or diazepam may be given as needed to control marked excitement and convulsions .
Large doses for sedation should be avoided because central depressant action may coincide with the depression occurring late in atropine poisoning .
Central stimulants are not recommended .
Physostigmine , given as an atropine antidote by slow intravenous injection of 1 to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg in pediatric populations ) , rapidly abolishes delirium and coma caused by large doses of atropine .
Since physostigmine is rapidly destroyed , the patient may again lapse into coma after one to two hours , and repeated doses may be required .
Artificial respiration with oxygen may be necessary .
Ice bags and alcohol sponges help to reduce fever , especially in pediatric populations .
Atropine is not removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic isotonic solution of atropine sulfate monohydrate in water for injection with sodium chloride sufficient to render the solution isotonic .
It is administered parenterally by intravenous injection .
Each milliliter ( mL ) contains 0 . 1 mg of atropine sulfate monohydrate equivalent to 0 . 083 mg of atropine , and sodium chloride , 9 mg .
May contain sodium hydroxide and / or sulfuric acid for pH adjustment 0 . 308 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
pH 3 . 0 to 6 . 5 .
Sodium chloride added to render the solution isotonic for injection of the active ingredient is present in amounts insufficient to affect serum electrolyte balance of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended for use only as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Atropine Sulfate , USP is chemically designated 1α H , 5α H - Tropan - 3 - α - ol ( ± ) - tropate ( ester ) , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) monohydrate , ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 ∙ H2SO4 ∙ H2O , colorless crystals or white crystalline powder very soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atropine , a naturally occurring belladonna alkaloid , is a racemic mixture of equal parts of d - and 1 - hyocyamine , whose activity is due almost entirely to the levo isomer of the drug .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atropine is an antimuscarinic agent since it antagonizes the muscarine - like actions of acetylcholine and other choline esters .
Atropine inhibits the muscarinic actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves , and on smooth muscles which respond to endogenous acetylcholine but are not so innervated .
As with other antimuscarinic agents , the major action of atropine is a competitive or surmountable antagonism which can be overcome by increasing the concentration of acetylcholine at receptor sites of the effector organ ( e . g . , by using anticholinesterase agents which inhibit the enzymatic destruction of acetylcholine ) .
The receptors antagonized by atropine are the peripheral structures that are stimulated or inhibited by muscarine ( i . e . , exocrine glands and smooth and cardiac muscle ) .
Responses to postganglionic cholinergic nerve stimulation also may be inhibited by atropine but this occurs less readily than with responses to injected ( exogenous ) choline esters .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Atropine - induced parasympathetic inhibition may be preceded by a transient phase of stimulation , especially on the heart where small doses first slow the rate before characteristic tachycardia develops due to paralysis of vagal control .
Atropine exerts a more potent and prolonged effect on heart , intestine and bronchial muscle than scopolamine , but its action on the iris , ciliary body and certain secretory glands is weaker than that of scopolamine .
Unlike the latter , atropine in clinical doses does not depress the central nervous system but may stimulate the medulla and higher cerebral centers .
Although mild vagal excitation occurs , the increased respiratory rate and ( sometimes ) increased depth of respiration produced by atropine are more probably the result of bronchiolar dilatation .
Accordingly , atropine is an unreliable respiratory stimulant and large or repeated doses may depress respiration .
Adequate doses of atropine abolish various types of reflex vagal cardiac slowing or asystole .
The drug also prevents or abolishes bradycardia or asystole produced by injection of choline esters , anticholinesterase agents or other parasympathomimetic drugs , and cardiac arrest produced by stimulation of the vagus .
Atropine also may lessen the degree of partial heart block when vagal activity is an etiologic factor .
In some patients with complete heart block , the idioventricular rate may be accelerated by atropine ; in others , the rate is stabilized .
Occasionally a large dose may cause atrioventricular ( A - V ) block and nodal rhythm .
Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP in clinical doses counteracts the peripheral dilatation and abrupt decrease in blood pressure produced by choline esters .
However , when given by itself , atropine does not exert a striking or uniform effect on blood vessels or blood pressure .
Systemic doses slightly raise systolic and lower diastolic pressures and can produce significant postural hypotension .
Such doses also slightly increase cardiac output and decrease central venous pressure .
Occasionally , therapeutic doses dilate cutaneous blood vessels , particularly in the " blush " area ( atropine flush ) , and may cause atropine " fever " due to suppression of sweat gland activity in infants and small children .
The effects of intravenous atropine on heart rate ( maximum heart rate ) and saliva flow ( minimum flow ) after intravenous administration ( rapid , constant infusion over 3 min . )
are delayed by 7 to 8 minutes after drug administration and both effects are non - linearly related to the amount of drug in the peripheral compartment .
Changes in plasma atropine levels following intramuscular administration ( 0 . 5 to 4 mg doses ) and heart rate are closely overlapped but the time course of the changes in atropine levels and behavioral impairment indicates that pharmacokinetics is not the primary rate - limiting mechanism for the central nervous system effect of atropine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Atropine disappears rapidly from the blood following injection and is distributed throughout the body .
Exercise , both prior to and immediately following intramuscular administration of atropine , significantly increases the absorption of atropine due to increased perfusion in the muscle and significantly decreases the clearance of atropine .
The pharmacokinetics of atropine is nonlinear after intravenous administration of 0 . 5 to 4 mg .
Atropine ' s plasma protein binding is about 44 % and saturable in the 2 – 20 μg / mL concentration range .
Atropine readily crosses the placental barrier and enters the fetal circulation , but is not found in amniotic fluid .
Much of the drug is destroyed by enzymatic hydrolysis , particularly in the liver ; from 13 to 50 % is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Traces are found in various secretions , including milk .
The major metabolites of atropine are noratropine , atropin - n - oxide , tropine , and tropic acid .
The metabolism of atropine is inhibited by organophosphate pesticides .
Specific Populations The elimination half - life of atropine is more than doubled in children under two years and the elderly ( > 65 years old ) compared to other age groups .
There is no gender effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics ( heart rate changes ) of atropine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of atropine or its potential to affect fertility adversely .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP , 0 . 1 mg / mL , is a clear and colorless solution available in 5 mL single - dose glass vials .
Each vial is co - packaged with an injector , which together make a LifeShield ™ Abboject ™ Glass Syringe .
It is supplied in the following presentations : NDC 51662 - 1208 - 1 ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) 5 mL SYR NDC 51662 - 1208 - 2 ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) 5 mL SYR , 1 SYRINGE PER POUCH NDC 51662 - 1208 - 3 ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) 5 mL SYR , 1 SYRINGE PER POUCH , 10 POUCHES PER CASE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
SPL Unclassified [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Abboject ™ is a trademark of the Abbott group of companies .
LifeShield ™ is the trademark of ICU Medical , Inc . and is used under license .
LAB - 0879 - 4 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principle Display Serialized Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principle Display Panel , 5 ML SYRINGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principle Display Panel , 5 ML SYRINGE CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 51662 - 1208 - 2 POUCH LABELING SYRINGE PACKAGING [ MULTIMEDIA ] POUCH LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 51662 - 1208 - 3 CASE LABELING CASE LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZED RFID [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
