Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( per delivered - dose ) Docusate Sodium USP 283 mg Purpose Stool Softener Laxative Uses • For relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) .
• This product generally produces a bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes .
Warnings For rectal use only .
Drug Interaction Precaution : Do not take this product if you are presently taking mineral oil , unless directed by a doctor .
Do not use • Laxative products when abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting are present .
• Laxative products for a period longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you : • Rectal bleeding .
• Noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks .
• Failed to have a bowel movement after use .
This may indicate a serious condition .
Pregnant or Lactating Women Ask a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older ( with adult supervision ) one to three units daily .
Children under 12 years of age , consult a doctor prior to use .
• Twist off and remove tip .
• Lubricate tip prior to insertion : Place a few drops of the tube ' s liquid content on the shaft prior to insertion .
Also apply liquid content or lubricant to the anus before inserting the mini - enema .
• Positioning : For best results , lay on the left side with knees bent .
Insert slowley into rectum , up to shoulder of tube .
Alternate Positions : Administer while seated on the toilet .
Or , kneel , then lower head and chest forward until side of face is resting on the surface .
• With steady pressure , gently insert the tube into the rectum with care to prevent damage to the rectal wall .
Squeeze to empty the contents .
Keep the tube squeezed until it is removed from the rectum .
After the contents have been emptied , remove the disposable tube and discard .
A small amount of liquid may remain in the unit after use .
Other Information Other Information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) RETAIN BOTTLE FOR COMPLETE DRUG FACTS Inactive Ingredients Glycerin USP and Polyethylene Glycol Questions or Comments : ( 800 ) 616 - 2471 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
