Stannous Fluoride 0 . 454 % w / w ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) ......
Acticavity , Antigingivitis , Anithypersensitivity Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Helps interfere with the harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis .
Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
Adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a poision control center right away .
Products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adquate tooth brushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
This product is specifically formulated to prevent staining .
Store below 30 C or 86 F .
When using this product , if irritation occurs discontinue use .
Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
Pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use .
Gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
You have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth , or increasing space between teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
glycerin , water , hydrated silica , petasodium tryiphosphate , flavor , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , cellulose gum , cocamiodpropyl betaine , sodium saccharin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
