Active Ingredients Purpose Menthol 1 . 9 % Counterirritant Methyl Salicylate 13 . 7 % Counterirritant Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with strain , sprains , bruises , simple backache , and arthritis .
Combined with stretching and calisthenics , Cramergesic assists in the warm - up process , especially in cool , damp weather .
For longer - lasting relief and to protect clothing , cover with cloth ; hold in place with an elastic wrap .
Warnings For external use only .
Use only as directed .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If condition worsens , or if the symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Consult a doctor before administering to children , including teenagers , with chicken pox or flu .
Directions Gently massage into painful area .
Adults and children 6 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 - 4 times daily .
Children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor .
To apply Cramergesic pack : spread 1 / 8 " layer of Cramergesic over area , cover with a cloth , and secure with an elastic wrap .
Do not bandage tightly .
Other information This product is intended to and will cause mild skin irritation .
Discontinue use if excessive irritation of skin develops .
Use with caution on fair skin .
Inactive Ingredients Lanolin , Paraffin , Petrolatum Stock No . 034522 Mfd .
by Cramer Products , Inc .
Gardner , Kansas 66030 QUESTIONS ?
( 800 ) 345 - 2231 ( M - F 8 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM CST ) FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT US AT WWW . CRAMERSPORTSMED . COM PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Net wt . 2 . 75 ounces ( 78 g ) PROFESSIONAL STRENGTH CRAMERGESIC OINTMENT MILD ANALGESIC OINTMENT • Relieves minor pain of muscle aches , strains and sprains • Relaxes tight , aching muscles • Assists in warm - up • Warm , penetrating treatment of athletic injuries and minor arthritis [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purpose counterirritant Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
