PRESCRIBING INFORMATION Rx only DESCRIPTION RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) ( DMSO ) 50 % w / w Aqueous Solution for intravesical instillation .
Each mL contains 0 . 54 gm dimethyl sulfoxide STERILE AND NON - PYROGENIC .
Intravesical instillation for the treatment of interstitial cystitis .
NOT FOR INTRAMUSCULAR OR INTRAVENOUS INJECTION .
The active component of RIMSO - 50 ® is dimethyl sulfoxide which has the empirical formula C2H6OS , and is structurally represented as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dimethyl sulfoxide is a clear , colorless and essentially odorless liquid which is miscible with water and most organic solvents .
Other physical characteristics include : molecular weight 78 . 13 , melting point 18 . 3 ° C , and a specific gravity of 1 . 096 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dimethyl sulfoxide is metabolised in man by oxidation to dimethyl sulfone or by reduction to dimethyl sulfide .
Dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethyl sulfone are excreted in the urine and feces .
Dimethyl sulfide is eliminated through the breath and skin and is responsible for the characteristic odor from patients on dimethyl sulfoxide medication .
Dimethyl sulfone can persist in serum for longer than two weeks after a single intravesical instillation .
No residual accumulation of dimethyl sulfoxide has occurred in man or lower animals who have received treatment for protracted periods of time .
Following topical application , dimethyl sulfoxide is absorbed and generally distributed in the tissues and body fluids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) is indicated for the symptomatic relief of patients with interstitial cystitis .
RIMSO - 50 ® has not been approved as being safe and effective for any other indication .
There is no clinical evidence of effectiveness of dimethyl sulfoxide in the treatment of bacterial infections of the urinary tract .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Dimethyl sulfoxide can initiate the liberation of histamine and there has been occasional hypersensitivity reaction with topical administration of dimethyl sulfoxide .
This hypersensitivity has been reported in one patients receiving intravesical RIMSO - 50 ® .
The physician should be cognizant of this possibility in prescribing RIMSO - 50 ® .
If anaphylactoid symptoms develop , appropriate therapy should be instituted .
PRECAUTIONS Changes in the refractive index and lens opacities have been seen in monkeys , dogs and rabbits given high doses of dimethyl sulfoxide chronically .
Since lens changes were noted in animals , full eye evaluations , including slit lamp examinations , are recommended prior to and periodically during treatment .
Approximately every six months patients receiving dimethyl sulfoxide should have a biochemical screening , particularly liver and renal function tests , and complete blood count .
Intravesical instillation of RIMSO - 50 ® may be harmful to patients with urinary tract malignancy because of dimethyl sulfoxide - induced vasodilation .
Some data indicate that dimethyl sulfoxide potentiates other concomitantly administered medications .
Dimethyl sulfoxide caused teratogenic responses in hamsters , rats and mice when administered intraperitoneally at high doses ( 2 . 5 to 12 gm / kg ) .
Oral or topical doses of dimethyl sulfoxide did not cause problems of reproduction in rats , mice and hamsters .
Topical doses ( 5 gm / kg first two days , then 2 . 5 gm / kg - last eight days ) produced terata in rabbits , but in another study , topical doses of 1 . 1 gm / kg days 3 through 16 of gestation failed to produce any abnormalities .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dimethyl sulfoxide should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when dimethyl sulfoxide is administered to a nursing woman .
Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Information available to be given to the patient is reprinted at the end of this text .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A garlic - like taste may be noted by the patient within a few minutes after instillation of RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) .
This taste may last several hours and because of the presence of metabolites , an odor on the breath and skin may remain for 72 hours .
Transient chemical cystitis has been noted following instillation of dimethyl sulfoxide .
The patient may experience moderately severe discomfort on administration .
Usually this becomes less prominent with repeated administration .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None known .
OVERDOSAGE The oral LD50 of dimethyl sulfoxide in the dog is greater than 10 gm / kg .
It is improbable that this dosage level could be obtained with intravesical instillation of RIMSO - 50 ® in the patient .
In case of accidental oral ingestion , specific measures should be taken to induce emesis .
Additional measures which may be considered are gastric lavage , activated charcoal and force diuresis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instillation of 50 mL of RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) directly into the bladder may be accomplished by catheter or asepto syringe and allow to remain for 15 minutes .
Application of an analgesic lubricant gel such as lidocaine jelly to the urethra is suggested prior to insertion of the catheter to avoid spasm .
The medication is expelled by spontaneous voiding .
It is recommended that the treatment be repeated every two weeks until maximum symptomatic relief is obtained .
Thereafter , time intervals between therapy may be increased appropriately .
Administration of oral analgesic medication or suppositories containing belladonna and opium prior to the instillation of RIMSO - 50 ® can reduce bladder spasm .
In patients with severe interstitial cystitis with very sensitive bladders , the initial treatment , and possibly the second and third ( depending on patient response ) should be done under anesthesia .
( Saddle block has been suggested ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Vials contain 50 mL of sterile and non - pyrogenic RIMSO - 50 ® ( 50 % w / w dimethyl sulfoxide aqueous solution ) .
Dimethyl sulfoxide is clear and colorless .
NDC 67457 - 177 - 50 carton containing a 50 mL vial Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from strong light .
For additional information concerning RIMSO - 50 ® , contact Mylan Institutional LLC , Morgantown , WV 26505 .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ( Physician Copy ) RIMSO - 50 ® is a sterile solution of 50 % dimethyl sulfoxide ( DMSO ) and 50 % water that has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for use in the symptomatic relief of patients with interstitial cystitis .
RIMSO - 50 ® will be instilled in the bladder on an inpatient or out - patient basis , which will be determined by your physician .
Some data indicate that dimethyl sulfoxide could change the effectiveness of medication ( s ) that you may be presently receiving .
Be sure to mention the name and dosage of all medicines you are taking to your physician before a RIMSO - 50 ® instillation .
A garlic - like taste may be noted by the patient within a few minutes after instillation of RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) .
This taste may last several hours .
An odor on the breath and skin may be present and remain for up to 72 hours .
Some patients may experience discomfort on administration of the drug .
Usually this becomes less prominent with repeated administration .
If you are pregnant or nursing , ask your physician about the advisability of using RIMSO - 50 ® .
Some eye changes have been observed in animals treated with DMSO in large doses for prolonged periods .
Therefore your doctor may want you to have eye evaluations , including slit lamp examinations prior to and periodically during treatment .
RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) irrigation , USP 1013L102 Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Revised : 3 / 2021 MI : RIMSIG : R5 RIMSO - 50 is a registered trademark of Mylan Teoranta , a Viatris Company .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ( Patient Copy ) RIMSO - 50 ® is a sterile solution of 50 % dimethyl sulfoxide ( DMSO ) and 50 % water that has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for use in the symptomatic relief of patients with interstitial cystitis .
RIMSO - 50 ® will be instilled in the bladder on an inpatient or out - patient basis , which will be determined by your physician .
Some data indicate that dimethyl sulfoxide could change the effectiveness of medication ( s ) that you may be presently receiving .
Be sure to mention the name and dosage of all medicines you are taking to your physician before a RIMSO - 50 ® instillation .
A garlic - like taste may be noted by the patient within a few minutes after instillation of RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) .
This taste may last several hours .
An odor on the breath and skin may be present and remain for up to 72 hours .
Some patients may experience discomfort on administration of the drug .
Usually this becomes less prominent with repeated administration .
If you are pregnant or nursing , ask your physician about the advisability of using RIMSO - 50 ® .
Some eye changes have been observed in animals treated with DMSO in large doses for prolonged periods .
Therefore your doctor may want you to have eye evaluations , including slit lamp examinations prior to and periodically during treatment .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Vial NDC 67457 - 177 - 50 50 mL RIMSO - 50 ® ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) irrigation , USP 50 mL ( 54 gm ) 50 % w / w Aqueous Solution For Irrigation Only Not for Injection Rx only Vial Sterile .
Non - pyrogenic .
Contains : 50 % w / w dimethyl sulfoxide in water for injection .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from strong light .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland RIMSO - 50 is a registered trademark of Mylan Teoranta , a Viatris Company .
MI : 177 : 1 C : R5 Mylan . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
