Active Ingredient Tolnaftate 1 percent Purpose Antifungal Uses : For effective treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) .
Relieves : • itching • scaling • cracking • redness • soreness • burning • irritation Prevents the recurrence of most athlete ' s foot with daily use .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • When using for treatment of athlete ' s foot or ringworm : If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
• When using for prevention of athlete ' s foot : If irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Directions : For treatment of athlete ' s foot , and ring - worm : • Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
• Supervise children in the use of this product • For athlete ' s foot : Pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• For athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
• If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
To prevent athlete ' s foot : • Wash the feet and dry thoroughly .
• Apply a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • Supervise children in the use of this product .
• Pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
Other information : Store at room temperature , 25 degrees Celsius ( 77 degrees Fahrenheit ) .
Inactive ingredients : BHT , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Cellulose Gum , Ceteareth - 20 and Ceteareth - 25 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Ehtyl - hexyglycerin , Ethoxydiglycol , Hydroxyethyl Cellulose , Stearic Acid , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 60 , Propylene Glycol , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Triethanolamine , Urea and Water Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
