DESCRIPTION Betimol ® ( timolol ophthalmic solution ) , 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % , is a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name of the active ingredient is ( S ) - 1 - [ ( 1 , 1 - dimethylethyl ) amino ] - 3 - [ [ 4 - ( 4 - morpholinyl ) - 1 , 2 , 5 - thiadiazol - 3 - yl ] oxy ] - 2 - propanol .
Timolol hemihydrate is the levo isomer .
Specific rotation is [ α ] 25 405 nm = - 16 ° ( C = 10 % as the hemihydrate form in 1 N HCl ) .
The molecular formula of timolol is Formula C 13 H 24 N 4 O 3 S and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Timolol ( as the hemihydrate ) is a white , odorless , crystalline powder which is slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in ethanol .
Timolol hemihydrate is stable at room temperature .
Betimol ® is a clear , colorless , isotonic , sterile , microbiologically preserved phosphate buffered aqueous solution .
It is supplied in two dosage strengths , 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % .
Each mL of Betimol ® 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 56 mg of timolol hemihydrate equivalent to 2 . 5 mg timolol .
Each mL of Betimol ® 0 . 5 % contains 5 . 12 mg of timolol hemihydrate equivalent to 5 . 0 mg timolol .
Inactive ingredients : monosodium and disodium phosphate dihydrate to adjust pH ( 6 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) and water for injection , benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % added as preservative .
The osmolality of Betimol ® is 260 to 320 mOsmol / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Timolol is a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
It blocks both beta 1 - and beta 2 - adrenergic receptors .
Timolol does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , local anesthetic ( membrane - stabilizing ) or direct myocardial depressant activity .
Timolol , when applied topically in the eye , reduces normal and elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous visual field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of glaucomatous visual field loss and optic nerve damage .
The predominant mechanism of ocular hypotensive action of topical beta - adrenergic blocking agents is likely due to a reduction in aqueous humor production .
In general , beta - adrenergic blocking agents reduce cardiac output both in healthy subjects and patients with heart diseases .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may inhibit sympathetic stimulatory effect necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
In the bronchi and bronchioles , beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may also increase airway resistance because of unopposed parasympathetic activity .
Pharmacokinetics When given orally , timolol is well absorbed and undergoes considerable first pass metabolism .
Timolol and its metabolites are primarily excreted in the urine .
The half - life of timolol in plasma is approximately 4 hours .
Clinical Studies In two controlled multicenter studies in the U . S . , Betimol ® 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % were compared with respective timolol maleate eyedrops .
In these studies , the efficacy and safety profile of Betimol ® was similar to that of timolol maleate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betimol ® is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betimol ® is contraindicated in patients with overt heart failure , cardiogenic shock , sinus bradycardia , second - or third - degree atrioventricular block , bronchial asthma or history of bronchial asthma , or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , or hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS As with other topically applied ophthalmic drugs , Betimol ® is absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely , death in association with cardiac failure have been reported following systemic or topical administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe cardiac failure .
In patients without a history of cardiac failure , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
Betimol ® should be discontinued at the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure .
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( e . g . chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) of mild or moderate severity , bronchospastic disease , or a history of bronchospastic disease ( other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma which are contraindications ) should in general not receive beta - blocking agents .
Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to a major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents have been subject to protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
For these reasons , in patients undergoing elective surgery , gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents is recommended .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of beta - adrenergic agonists .
Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of the potential effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents relative to blood pressure and pulse , these agents should be used with caution in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow develop following initiation of therapy with Betimol ® , alternative therapy should be considered .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients . )
Muscle Weakness Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents have been reported rarely to increase muscle weakness in some patients with myasthenia gravis or myasthenic symptoms .
In angle - closure glaucoma , the goal of the treatment is to reopen the angle .
This requires constricting the pupil .
Betimol ® has no effect on the pupil .
Therefore , if timolol is used in angle - closure glaucoma , it should always be combined with a miotic and not used alone .
Anaphylaxis While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
The preservative benzalkonium chloride may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients who wear soft contact lenses should wait 5 minutes after instilling Betimol ® before they insert their lenses .
Information for Patients Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular solutions can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General . )
Patients requiring concomitant topical ophthalmic medications should be instructed to administer these at least 5 minutes apart .
Patients with bronchial asthma , a history of bronchial asthma , severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , sinus bradycardia , second - or third - degree atrioventricular block , or cardiac failure should be advised not to take this product ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Drug Interactions Beta - adrenergic blocking agents Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally and Betimol ® should be observed for a potential additive effect either on the intraocular pressure or on the known systemic effects of beta - blockade .
Patients should not usually receive two topical ophthalmic beta - adrenergic blocking agents concurrently .
Catecholamine - depleting drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Calcium antagonists Caution should be used in the co - administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists , because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure , and hypotension .
In patients with impaired cardiac function , co - administration should be avoided .
Digitalis and calcium antagonists The concomitant use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
Injectable Epinephrine ( See PRECAUTIONS , General , Anaphylaxis . )
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity of timolol ( as the maleate ) has been studied in mice and rats .
In a two - year study orally administrated timolol maleate ( 300 mg / kg / day ) ( approximately 42 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) in male rats caused a significant increase in the incidence of adrenal pheochromocytomas ; the lower doses , 25 mg or 100 mg / kg daily did not cause any changes .
In a life span study in mice the overall incidence of neoplasms was significantly increased in female mice at 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 71 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Furthermore , significant increases were observed in the incidences of benign and malignant pulmonary tumors , benign uterine polyps , as well as mammary adenocarcinomas .
These changes were not seen at the daily dose level of 5 or 50 mg / kg ( approximately 700 or 7 , 000 , respectively , times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
For comparison , the maximum recommended human oral dose of timolol maleate is 1 mg / kg / day .
Mutagenic potential of timolol was evaluated in vivo in the micronucleus test and cytogenetic assay and in vitro in the neoplastic cell transformation assay and Ames test .
In the bacterial mutagenicity test { Ames test ) high concentrations of timolol maleate ( 5000 and 10 , 000 g / plate ) statistically significantly increased the number of revertants in Salmonella typhimuriumTA100 , but not in the other three strains tested .
However , no consistent dose - response was observed nor did the number of revertants reach the double of the control value , which is regarded as one of the criteria for a positive result in the Ames test .
In vivo genotoxicity tests ( the mouse micronucleus test and cytogenetic assay ) and in vitro the neoplastic cell transformation assay were negative up to dose levels of 800 mg / kg and 100 g / mL , respectively .
No adverse effects on male and female fertility were reported in rats at timolol oral doses of up to 150 mg / kg / day ( 21 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Category C Teratogenicity of timolol ( as the maleate ) after oral administration was studied in mice and rabbits .
No fetal malformations were reported in mice or rabbits at a daily oral dose of 50 mg / kg ( 7 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Although delayed fetal ossification was observed at this dose in rats , there were no adverse effects on postnatal development of offspring .
Doses of 1000 mg / kg / day ( 142 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were maternotoxic in mice and resulted in an increased number of fetal resorptions .
Increased fetal resorptions were also seen in rabbits at doses of 14 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose in this case without apparent maternotoxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Betimol ® should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from timolol , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported ocular event in clinical trials was burning / stinging on instillation and was comparable between Betimol ® and timolol maleate ( approximately one in eight patients ) .
The following adverse events were associated with use of Betimol ® in frequencies of more than 5 % in two controlled , double - masked clinical studies in which 184 patients received 0 . 25 % or 0 . 5 % Betimol ® : OCULAR : Dry eyes , itching , foreign body sensation , discomfort in the eye , eyelid erythema , conjunctival injection , and headache .
BODY AS A WHOLE : Headache .
The following side effects were reported in frequencies of 1 to 5 % : OCULAR : Eye pain , epiphora , photophobia , blurred or abnormal vision , corneal fluorescein staining , keratitis , blepharitis and cataract .
BODY AS A WHOLE : Allergic reaction , asthenia , common cold and pain in extremities .
CARDIOVASCULAR : Hypertension .
DIGESTIVE : Nausea .
METABOLIC / NUTRITIONAL : Peripheral edema .
NERVOUS SYSTEM / PSYCHIATRY : Dizziness and dry mouth .
RESPIRATORY : Respiratory infection and sinusitis .
In addition , the following adverse reactions have been reported with ophthalmic use of beta blockers : OCULAR : Conjunctivitis , blepharoptosis , decreased corneal sensitivity , visual disturbances including refractive changes , diplopia and retinal vascular disorder .
BODY AS A WHOLE : Chest pain .
CARDIOVASCULAR : Arrhythmia , palpitation , bradycardia , hypotension , syncope , heart block , cerebral vascular accident , cerebral ischemia , cardiac failure and cardiac arrest .
DIGESTIVE : Diarrhea .
ENDOCRINE : Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in insulin dependent diabetics ( See WARNINGS ) .
NERVOUS SYSTEM / PSYCHIATRY : Depression , impotence , increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis and paresthesia .
RESPIRATORY : Dyspnea , bronchospasm , respiratory failure and nasal congestion .
SKIN : Alopecia , hypersensitivity including localized and generalized rash , urticaria .
OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdosage with Betimol ® .
Symptoms that might be expected with an overdose of a beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent are bronchospasm , hypotension , bradycardia , and acute cardiac failure .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Betimol ® Ophthalmic Solution is available in concentrations of 0 . 25 and 0 . 5 percent .
The usual starting dose is one drop of 0 . 25 percent Betimol ® in the affected eye ( s ) twice a day .
If the clinical response is not adequate , the dosage may be changed to one drop of 0 . 5 percent solution in the affected eye ( s ) twice a day .
If the intraocular pressure is maintained at satisfactory levels , the dosage schedule may be changed to one drop once a day in the affected eye ( s ) .
Because of diurnal variations in intraocular pressure , satisfactory response to the once - a - day dose is best determined by measuring the intraocular pressure at different times during the day .
Since in some patients the pressure - lowering response to Betimol ® may require a few weeks to stabilize , evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with Betimol ® .
Dosages above one drop of 0 . 5 percent Betimol ® twice a day generally have not been shown to produce further reduction in intraocular pressure .
If the patient ' s intraocular pressure is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy with pilocarpine and other miotics , and / or epinephrine , and / or systemically administered carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , such as acetazolamide , can be instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Betimol ® ( timolol ophthalmic solution ) is a clear , colorless solution .
Betimol ® 0 . 25 % is supplied in a white , opaque , plastic , ophthalmic dispenser bottle with a controlled drop tip as follows : NDC 82584 - 001 - 05 5 mL fill in 5 cc container Betimol ® 0 . 5 % is supplied in a white , opaque , plastic , ophthalmic dispenser bottle with a controlled drop tip as follows : NDC 82584 - 002 - 05 5 mL fill in 5 cc container NDC 82584 - 002 - 15 15 mL fill in 15 cc container Rx Only STORAGE Store between 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
Manufactured for : Thea Pharma Inc .
Lexington , MA 02420 Made in Switzerland © 2022 .
Thea Pharma Inc .
All rights reserved Rev . 05 / 2022 N10240C5USA / 0522 82040301 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Bottle Carton NDC 82584 - 001 - 05 BETIMOL ® ( timolol ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % Timolol equivalent ( timolol hemihydrate 2 . 56 mg / mL ) Rx Only 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Bottle Carton - NDC 82854 - 002 - 05 NDC 82584 - 002 - 05 BETIMOL ® ( timolol ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 5 % Timolol equivalent ( timolol hemihydrate 5 . 12 mg / mL ) Rx Only 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
