DESCRIPTION Cordran Tape ( Flurandrenolide Tape , USP ) is a transparent , inconspicuous , plastic surgical tape .
It contains Cordran ( Flurandrenolide , USP ) , a potent corticosteroid for topical use .
Flurandrenolide occurs as white to off - white , fluffy crystalline powder and is odorless .
Flurandrenolide is practically insoluble in water and in ether .
One gram dissolves in 72 mL of alcohol and in 10 mL of chloroform .
The molecular weight of flurandrenolide is 436 . 52 .
The chemical name of flurandrenolide is Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 6 - fluoro - 11 , 21 dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 6α , 11ß , 16α ) - ; its empirical formula is C24H33FO6 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each square centimeter contains 4 mcg ( 0 . 00916 μmol ) flurandrenolide uniformly distributed in the adhesive layer .
The tape is made of a thin , matte - finish polyethylene film that is slightly elastic and highly flexible .
The adhesive is a synthetic copolymer of acrylate ester and acrylic acid that is free from substances of plant origin .
The pressure - sensitive adhesive surface is covered with a protective paper liner to permit handling and trimming before application .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cordran is primarily effective because of its anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory effect of topical corticosteroids is not completely understood .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Corticosteroids with anti - inflammatory activity may stabilize cellular and lysosomal membranes .
There is also the suggestion that the effect on the membranes of lysosomes prevents the release of proteolytic enzymes and , thus , plays a part in reducing inflammation .
The tape serves as both a vehicle and an occlusive dressing .
Retention of insensible perspiration by the tape results in hydration of the stratum corneum and improved diffusion of the medication .
The skin is protected from scratching , rubbing , desiccation , and chemical irritation .
The tape acts as a mechanical splint to fissured skin .
Since it prevents removal of the medication by washing or the rubbing action of clothing , the tape formulation provides a sustained action .
Pharmacokinetics — The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to those of systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
They are metabolized primarily in the liver and then excreted in the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses , particularly dry , scaling localized lesions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of these preparations .
Use of Cordran Tape is not recommended for lesions exuding serum or in intertriginous areas .
PRECAUTIONS General - Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions that augment systemic absorption include application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using urinary - free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete on discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , so that supplemental systemic corticosteroids are required .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionately larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatologic infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , Cordran should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient - Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped in order to be occlusive unless the patient is directed to do so by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a patient being treated in the diaper area , because these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests - The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary - free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Usage in Pregnancy - Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively for pregnant patients or in large amounts or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical - corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than do mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma - cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis .
The following may occur more frequently with occlusive dressings : maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of Cordran Tape and other occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
Replacement of the tape every 12 hours produces the lowest incidence of adverse reactions , but it may be left in place for 24 hours if it is well tolerated and adheres satisfactorily .
When necessary , the tape may be used at night only and removed during the day .
If ends of the tape loosen prematurely , they may be trimmed off and replaced with fresh tape .
The directions given below are included for the patient to follow unless otherwise instructed by the physician .
APPLICATION OF CORDRAN TAPE IMPORTANT : Skin should be clean and dry before tape is applied .
Tape should always be cut , never torn .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : • Prepare skin as directed by your physician or as follows : Gently clean the area to be covered to remove scales , crusts , dried exudates , and any previously used ointments or creams .
A germicidal soap or cleanser should be used to prevent the development of odor under the tape .
Shave or clip the hair in the treatment area to allow both good contact with the skin and comfortable removal .
If shower or tub bath is to be taken , it should be completed before the tape is applied .
The skin should be dry before application of the tape .
• Remove tape from flip - top vial and cut a piece slightly larger than area to be covered .
Round off corners .
• Return remainder of tape roll to vial and tightly close the lid .
• Pull white paper from transparent tape .
Be careful that tape does not stick to itself .
• Apply tape , keeping skin smooth ; press tape into place .
Keep Cordran Tape in the original container .
Do not repackage .
Protect from moisture .
Keep vial tightly closed in a dry place .
REPLACEMENT OF TAPE : Unless instructed otherwise by your physician , replace tape after 12 hours .
Cleanse skin and allow it to dry for 1 hour before applying new tape .
IF IRRITATION OR INFECTION DEVELOPS , REMOVE TAPE AND CONSULT PHYSICIAN .
HOW SUPPLIED Tape : 4 mcg / sq cm — small roll , 24 in x 3 in ( 60 cm x 7 . 5 cm ) , in a flip - top vial NDC 16110 - 587 - 24 4 mcg / sq cm — large roll , 80 in x 3 in ( 200 cm x 7 . 5 cm ) , in a flip - top vial NDC 16110 - 587 - 80 Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Keep out of reach of children .
Rx only REFERENCES Bard JW : Flurandrenolide tape in the treatment of lichen simplex chronicus .
J Ky Med Assoc 1969 ; 67 : 668 .
Baxter DL , Stoughton RB : Mitotic index of psoriatic lesions treated with anthralin , glucocorticosteroid and occlusion only .
J Invest Dermatol 1970 ; 54 : 410 .
Compilation of clinical reports on Cordran Tape received by Eli Lilly and Company .
Halprin KM , Fukui K , Ohkawara A : Flurandrenolone ( Cordran ) tape and carbohydrate metabolizing enzymes .
Arch Dermatol 1969 ; 100 : 336 .
Labow TA , Eisert J , Sanders SL : Flurandrenolide tape in treatment of psoriasis .
NY State J Med 1969 ; 69 : 3138 .
Ronchese F : Flurandrenolone tape therapy .
RI Med J 1969 ; 52 : 389 .
Sellers FM : Investigative study of flurandrenolone tape in a series of ambulatory outpatients .
J Indiana State Med Assoc 1970 ; 63 : 34 .
Weiner MA : Flurandrenolone tape , a new preparation for occlusive therapy , J Invest Dermatol 1966 ; 47 : 63 .
Manufactured for : Almirall , LLC 101 Lindenwood Drive , Suite 400 , Malvern , PA 19355 © 2019 Almirall , LLC .
All rights reserved .
Cordran ® is a registered trademark of Almirall , LLC .
Content Updated : July 2019 For the Patient Cordran ® Tape Flurandrenolide Tape , USP DIRECTIONS FOR USE APPLICATION OF MEDICATED TRANSPARENT TAPE Rx only IMPORTANT : Skin should be clean and dry before tape is applied .
Tape should always be cut , never torn .
• Prepare skin as directed by your physician or as follows : Gently clean the area to be covered to remove scales , crusts , dried exudates , and any previously used ointments or creams .
A germicidal soap or cleanser should be used to prevent the development of odor under the tape .
Shave or clip the hair in the treatment area to allow both good contact with the skin and comfortable removal .
If a shower or tub bath is to be taken , it should be completed before the tape is applied .
The skin should be dry before application of the tape .
• Remove tape from flip - top vial and cut a piece slightly larger than area to be covered .
Round off corners .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Return remainder of tape roll to vial and tightly close the lid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Pull white paper backing from transparent tape .
Be careful that tape does not stick to itself .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Apply tape , keeping skin smooth ; press tape into place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] REPLACEMENT OF TAPE Unless instructed otherwise by your physician , replace tape after 12 hours .
Cleanse skin and allow it to dry for 1 hour before applying new tape .
DISPENSING THE TAPE To use the roll as a dispenser , pull the tape as illustrated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] IF IRRITATION OR INFECTION DEVELOPS , REMOVE TAPE AND CONSULT PHYSICIAN .
Store at 20 - 25 ℃ ( 68 - 77 ℉ ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Keep Cordran Tape in the original container .
Do not repackage .
Protect from moisture .
Keep vial tightly closed in a dry place .
Keep out of reach of children .
Rx only Manufactured for : Almirall , LLC 101 Lindenwood Drive , Suite 400 , Malvern , PA 19355 © 2019 Almirall , LLC .
All rights reserved .
Cordran ® is a registered trademark of Almirall , LLC .
almirall Content Updated : July 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 587 - 80 - Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 587 - 80 - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
