Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of sodium sulfacetamide 8 % and sulfur 4 % cleanser contains 80 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 40 mg of sulfur in a cleanser containing Aloe Vera leaf Extract , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Cetyl Alcohol , Citric Acid , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Green Tea Extract , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Purified Water , Sodium laureth sulfate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl alcohol , Triacetin , Xanthan Gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Sodium sulfacetamide is C 8 H 9 N 2 NaO 3 S · H2O with molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically , it is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth , by its competition with para - aminobenzoic acid .
There is no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic absorption of this product when applied to the skin or scalp .
However , significant absorption of sodium sulfacetamide through the skin has been reported .
The following in vitro data is available but the clinical significance is unknown .
Organisms that show susceptibility to sodium sulfacetamide are : Streptococci , Staphylococci , E . coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas pyocyanea , Salmonella species , Proteus vulgaris , Nocardia and Actinomyces .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 8 % - SULFUR 4 % CLEANSER is indicated for use in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 8 % - SULFUR 4 % CLEANSER is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 8 % - SULFUR 4 % CLEANSER is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although it is rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRAVAGINAL OR OPHTHALMIC USE .
( KEEP AWAY FROM EYES ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion contact a poison control center immediately .
Keepcontainer tightly closed .
Precaution General : If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients : Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % & Sulfur 4 % Cleanser .
It is also not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % & Sulfur 4 % Cleanser can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % & Sulfur 4 % Cleanser should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % & Sulfur 4 % Cleanser .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % & Sulfur 4 % Cleanser is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
Adverse Reaction Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 877 - 250 - 3427 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % and Sulfur 4 % Topical Suspension once or twice daily to affected areas , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off Sodium Sulfacetamide 8 % and Sulfur 4 % Topical Suspension sooner or using less often .
See booklet for full prescribing information .
HOW SUPPLIED Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Occasionally , a slight discoloration of fabric may occur when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
This bottle is not filled to the top but does contain 16 fl oz of product as identified on the front panel of the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
