BOXED WARNING WARNING : SERIOUS AND SOMETIMES FATAL INFECTIONS OR BLEEDING See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Serious and sometimes fatal infections and bleeding occur very rarely following spontaneous , surgical , and medical abortions , including following Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg use .
Atypical Presentation of Infection .
Patients with serious bacterial infections and sepsis can present without fever , bacteremia or significant findings on pelvic examination .
A high index of suspicion is needed to rule out serious infection and sepsis .
Bleeding .
Prolonged heavy bleeding may be a sign of incomplete abortion or other complications and prompt medical or surgical intervention may be needed .
Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is only available through a restricted program called the Mifepristone REMS Program .
Before prescribing Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg , inform the patient about these risks .
Ensure the patient knows whom to call and what to do if she experiences sustained fever , severe abdominal pain , prolonged heavy bleeding , or syncope , or if she experiences abdominal pain or discomfort or general malaise for more than 24 hours after taking misoprostol .
Advise the patient to take the MEDICATION GUIDE with her if she visits an emergency room or another healthcare provider who did not prescribe Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg , so that provider knows that she is undergoing a medical abortion .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is indicated , in a regimen with misoprostol , for the medical termination of intrauterine pregnancy through 70 days gestation .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosing Regimen For purposes of this treatment , pregnancy is dated from the first day of the last menstrual period .
The duration of pregnancy may be determined from menstrual history and clinical examination .
Assess the pregnancy by ultrasonographic scan if the duration of pregnancy is uncertain or if ectopic pregnancy is suspected .
Remove any intrauterine device ( “ IUD ” ) before treatment with Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg begins [ see Contraindications ] .
The dosing regimen for Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol is : Mifepristone 200 mg orally + misoprostol 800 mcg buccally Day One : Mifepristone 200 mg Administration One 200 mg tablet of Mifepristone is taken in a single oral dose .
Day Two or Three : Misoprostol Administration ( minimum 24 - hour interval between , Mifepristone and misoprostol ) Four 200 mcg tablets ( total dose 800 mcg ) of misoprostol are taken by the buccal route .
Tell the patient to place two 200 mcg misoprostol tablets in each cheek pouch ( the area between the cheek and gums ) for 30 minutes and then swallow any remnants with water or another liquid ( see Figure 1 ) .
Patients taking Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg must take misoprostol within 24 to 48 hours after taking Mifepristone .
The effectiveness of the regimen may be lower if misoprostol is administered less than 24 hours or more than 48 hours after Mifepristone administration .
Because most women will expel the pregnancy within 2 to 24 hours of taking misoprostol [ see Clinical Studies ] , discuss with the patient an appropriate location for her to be when she takes the misoprostol , taking into account that expulsion could begin within 2 hours of administration .
2 . 2 Patient Management Following Misoprostol Administration During the period immediately following the administration of misoprostol , the patient may need medication for cramps or gastrointestinal symptoms [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Give the patient : • Instructions on what to do if significant discomfort , excessive vaginal bleeding or other adverse reactions occur • A phone number to call if she has questions following the administration of the misoprostol • The name and phone number of the healthcare provider who will behandling emergencies .
2 . 3 Post - treatment Assessment : Day 7 to 14 Patients should follow - up with their healthcare provider approximately 7 to 14 days after the administration of Mifepristone .
This assessment is very important to confirm that complete termination of pregnancy has occurred and to evaluate the degree of bleeding .
Termination can be confirmed by medical history , clinical examination , human Chorionic Gonadotropin ( hCG ) testing , or ultrasonographic scan .
Lack of bleeding following treatment usually indicates failure ; however , prolonged or heavy bleeding is not proof of a complete abortion .
The existence of debris in the uterus ( e . g . , if seen on ultrasonography ) following the treatment procedure will not necessarily require surgery for its removal .
Women should expect to experience vaginal bleeding or spotting for an average of 9 to 16 days .
Women report experiencing heavy bleeding for a median duration of 2 days .
Up to 8 % of women may experience some type of bleeding for more than 30 days .
Persistence of heavy or moderate vaginal bleeding at the time of follow - up , however , could indicate an incomplete abortion .
If complete expulsion has not occurred , but the pregnancy is not ongoing , women may be treated with another dose of misoprostol 800 mcg buccally .
There have been rare reports of uterine rupture in women who took Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol , including women with prior uterine rupture or uterine scar and women who received multiple doses of misoprostol within 24 hours .
Women who choose to use a repeat dose of misoprostol should have a follow - up visit with their healthcare provider in approximately 7 days to assess for complete termination .
Surgical evacuation is recommended to manage ongoing pregnancies after medical abortion [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise the patient whether you will provide such care or will refer her to another provider as part of counseling prior to prescribing Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg .
2 . 4 Contact for Consultation For consultation 24 hours a day , 7 days a week with an expert in mifepristone , call GenBioPro , Inc . at 1 - 855 - MIFEINFO ( 1 - 855 - 643 - 3463 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets containing 200 mg of Mifepristone each , supplied as 1 tablet on one blister card .
Mifepristone tablets are light yellow in color , circular , bio - convex tablets , approximately 11 mm in diameter and imprinted on one side with “ S . ” 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol for the termination of pregnancy ( the “ treatment procedure ” ) is contraindicated in patients with any of the following conditions : • Confirmed or suspected ectopic pregnancy or undiagnosed adnexal mass ( the treatment procedure will not be effective to terminate an ectopic pregnancy ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Chronic adrenal failure ( risk of acute renal insufficiency ) • Concurrent long - term corticosteroid therapy ( risk of acute renal insufficiency ) • History of allergy to mifepristone , misoprostol , or other prostaglandins ( allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , rash , hives , and itching have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ] ) • Hemorrhagic disorders or concurrent anticoagulant therapy ( risk of heavy bleeding ) • Inherited porphyrias ( risk of worsening or of precipitation of attacks ) • Use of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol for termination of intrauterine pregnancy is contraindicated in patients with an intrauterine device ( “ IUD ” ) in place ( the IUD might interfere with pregnancy termination ) .
If the IUD is removed , Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg may be used .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Infection and Sepsis As with other types of abortion , cases of serious bacterial infection , including very rare cases of fatal septic shock , have been reported following the use of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Healthcare providers evaluating a patient who is undergoing a medical abortion should be alert to the possibility of this rare event .
A sustained ( > 4 hours ) fever of 100 . 4 ° F or higher , severe abdominal pain , or pelvic tenderness in the days after a medical abortion may be an indication of infection .
A high index of suspicion is needed to rule out sepsis ( e . g . , from Clostridium sordellii ) if a patient reports abdominal pain or discomfort or general malaise ( including weakness , nausea , vomiting or diarrhea ) more than 24 hours after taking misoprostol .
Very rarely , deaths have been reported in patients who presented without fever , with or without abdominal pain , but with leukocytosis with a marked left shift , tachycardia , hemoconcentration , and general malaise .
No causal relationship between Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol use and an increased risk of infection or death has been established .
Clostridium sordellii infections have also been reported very rarely following childbirth ( vaginal delivery and caesarian section ) , and in other gynecologic and non - gynecologic conditions .
5 . 2 Uterine Bleeding Uterine bleeding occurs in almost all patients during a medical abortion .
Prolonged heavy bleeding ( soaking through two thick full - size sanitary pads per hour for two consecutive hours ) may be a sign of incomplete abortion or other complications and prompt medical or surgical intervention may be needed to prevent the development of hypovolemic shock .
Counsel patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience prolonged heavy vaginal bleeding following a medical abortion [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Women should expect to experience vaginal bleeding or spotting for an average of 9 to 16 days .
Women report experiencing heavy bleeding for a median duration of 2 days .
Up to 8 % of all subjects may experience some type of bleeding for 30 days or more .
In general , the duration of bleeding and spotting increased as the duration of the pregnancy increased .
Decreases in hemoglobin concentration , hematocrit , and red blood cell count may occur in women who bleed heavily .
Excessive uterine bleeding usually requires treatment by uterotonics , vasoconstrictor drugs , surgical uterine evacuation , administration of saline infusions , and / or blood transfusions .
Based on data from several large clinical trials , vasoconstrictor drugs were used in 4 . 3 % of all subjects , there was a decrease in hemoglobin of more than 2 g / dL in 5 . 5 % of subjects , and blood transfusions were administered to ≤ 0 . 1 % of subjects .
Because heavy bleeding requiring surgical uterine evacuation occurs in about 1 % of patients , special care should be given to patients with hemostatic disorders , hypocoagulability , or severe anemia .
5 . 3 Mifepristone REMS Program Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is available only through a restricted program called the Mifepristone REMS Program , because of the risks of serious complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] Notable requirements of the Mifepristone REMS Program include the following : • Prescribers must be certified with the program by completing the Prescriber Agreement Form • Patients must sign a Patient Agreement Form • Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg must be dispensed to patients only in certain healthcare settings , specifically clinics , medical offices and hospitals by or under the supervision of a certified prescriber Further information is available at 1 - 855 - MIFEINFO ( 1 - 855 - 643 - 3463 ) .
5 . 4 Ectopic Pregnancy Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is contraindicated in patients with a confirmed or suspected ectopic pregnancy because mifepristone is not effective for terminating ectopic pregnancies [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Healthcare providers should remain alert to the possibility that a patient who is undergoing a medical abortion could have an undiagnosed ectopic pregnancy because some of the expected symptoms experienced with a medical abortion ( abdominal pain , uterine bleeding ) may be similar to those of a ruptured ectopic pregnancy .
The presence of an ectopic pregnancy may have been missed even if the patient underwent ultrasonography prior to being prescribed Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg .
Women who became pregnant with an IUD in place should be assessed for ectopic pregnancy .
5 . 5 Rhesus Immunization The use of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is assumed to require the same preventive measures as those taken prior to and during surgical abortion to prevent rhesus immunization .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in greater detail in other sections : • Infection and sepsis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Information presented on common adverse reactions relies solely on data from US studies , because rates reported in non - US studies were markedly lower and are not likely generalizable to the US population .
In three US clinical studies totaling 1 , 248 women through 70 days gestation who used mifepristone 200 mg orally followed 24 - 48 hours later by misoprostol 800 mcg buccally , women reported adverse reactions in diaries and in interviews at the follow - up visit .
These studies enrolled generally healthy women of reproductive age without contraindications to mifepristone or misoprostol use according to the Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg product label . Gestational age was assessed prior to study enrollment using the date of the woman ' s last menstrual period , clinical evaluation , and / or ultrasound examination .
About 85 % of patients report at least one adverse reaction following administration of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol , and many can be expected to report more than one such reaction .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( > 15 % ) were nausea , weakness , fever / chills , vomiting , headache , diarrhea , and dizziness ( see Table 1 ) .
The frequency of adverse reactions varies between studies and may be dependent on many factors including the patient population and gestational age .
Abdominal pain / cramping is expected in all medical abortion patients and its incidence is not reported in clinical studies .
Treatment with Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol is designed to induce uterine bleeding and cramping to cause termination of an intrauterine pregnancy .
Uterine bleeding and cramping are expected consequences of the action of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol as used in the treatment procedure .
Most women can expect bleeding more heavily than they do during a heavy menstrual period [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in US clinical studies with incidence > 15 % of women .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported in Women Following Administration of Mifepristone ( oral ) and Misoprostol ( buccal ) in US Clinical StudiesAdverse Reaction # US studies Number of Evaluable Women Range of frequency ( % ) Upper Gestational Age of Studies Reporting Outcome Nausea 3 1 , 248 51 - 75 % 70 days Weakness 2 630 55 - 58 % 63 days Fever / chills 1 414 48 % 63 days Vomiting 3 1 , 248 37 - 48 % 70 days Headache 2 630 41 - 44 % 63 days Diarrhea 3 1 , 248 18 - 43 % 70 days Dizziness 2 630 39 - 41 % 63 days One study provided gestational - age stratified adverse reaction rates for women who were 57 - 63 and 64 - 70 days ; there was little difference in frequency of the reported common adverse reactions by gestational age .
Information on serious adverse reactions was reported in six US and four non - US clinical studies , totaling 30 , 966 women through 70 days gestation who used mifepristone 200 mg orally followed 24 - 48 hours later by misoprostol 800 mcg buccally .
Serious adverse reaction rates were similar between US and non - US studies , so rates from both US and non - US studies are presented .
In the US studies , one studied women through 56 days gestation , four through 63 days gestation , and one through 70 days gestation , while in the non - US studies , two studied women through 63 days gestation , and two through 70 days gestation .
Serious adverse reactions were reported in < 0 . 5 % of women .
Information from the US and non - US studies is presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 Serious Adverse Reactions Reported in Women Following Administration of Mifepristone ( oral ) and Misoprostol ( buccal ) in US and Non - US Clinical Studies US Non - US Adverse Reaction # of studies Number of Evaluable Women Range of Frequency ( % ) # of studies Number of Evaluable Women Range of Frequency ( % ) Transfusion 4 17 , 774 0 . 03 - 0 . 5 % 3 12 , 134 0 - 0 . 1 % Sepsis 1 629 0 . 2 % 1 11 , 155 < 0 . 01 % * ER visit 2 1 , 043 2 . 9 - 4 . 6 % 1 95 0 Hospitalization Related to Medical Abortion 3 14 , 339 0 . 04 - 0 . 6 % 3 1 , 286 0 - 0 . 7 % Infection without sepsis 1 216 0 1 11 , 155 0 . 2 % Hemorrhage NR NR NR 1 11 , 155 0 . 1 % NR = Not reported * This outcome represents a single patient who experienced death related to sepsis .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg and misoprostol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and infestations : post - abortal infection ( including endometritis , endomyometritis , parametritis , pelvic infection , pelvic inflammatory disease , salpingitis ) Blood and the lymphatic system disorders : anemia Immune system disorders : allergic reaction ( including anaphylaxis , angioedema , hives , rash , itching ) Psychiatric disorders : anxiety Cardiac disorders : tachycardia ( including racing pulse , heart palpitations , heart pounding ) Vascular disorders : syncope , fainting , loss of consciousness , hypotension ( including orthostatic ) , light - headedness Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : shortness of breath Gastrointestinal disorders : dyspepsia Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : back pain , leg pain Reproductive system and breast disorders : uterine rupture , ruptured ectopic pregnancy , hematometra , leukorrhea General disorders and administration site conditions : pain 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drugs that May Reduce Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg Exposure ( Effect of CYP 3A4 Inducers on Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg ) CYP450 3A4 is primarily responsible for the metabolism of mifepristone .
CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampin , dexamethasone , St . John ' s Wort , and certain anticonvulsants ( such as phenytoin , phenobarbital , carbamazepine ) may induce mifepristone metabolism ( lowering serum concentrations of mifepristone ) .
Whether this action has an impact on the efficacy of the dose regimen is unknown .
Refer to the follow - up assessment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] to verify that treatment has been successful .
7 . 2 Drugs that May Increase Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg Exposure ( Effect of CYP 3A4 Inhibitors on Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg ) Although specific drug or food interactions with mifepristone have not been studied , on the basis of this drug ' s metabolism by CYP 3A4 , it is possible that ketoconazole , itraconazole erythromycin , and grapefruit juice may inhibit its metabolism ( increasing serum concentrations of mifepristone ) .
Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg should be used with caution in patients currently or recently treated with CYP 3A4 inhibitors .
7 . 3 Effects of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg on Other Drugs ( Effect of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg on CYP 3A4Substrates ) Based on in vitro inhibition information , coadministration of mifepristone may lead to an increase in serum concentrations of drugs that are CYP 3A4 substrates .
Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body , such interaction may be observed for a prolonged period after its administration .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when mifepristone is administered with drugs that are CYP 3A4 substrates and have a narrow therapeutic range .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Mifepristone is indicated , in a regimen with misoprostol , for the medical termination of intrauterine pregnancy through 70 days gestation .
Risks to pregnant women are discussed throughout the labeling .
Refer to misoprostol labeling for risks to pregnant women with the use of misoprostol .
The risk of adverse developmental outcomes with a continued pregnancy after a failed pregnancy termination with Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg in a regimen with misoprostol is unknown ; however , the process of a failed pregnancy termination could disrupt normal embryo - fetal development and result in adverse developmental effects .
Birth defects have been reported with a continued pregnancy after a failed pregnancy termination with Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg in a regimen with misoprostol .
In animal reproduction studies , increased fetal losses were observed in mice , rats , and rabbits and skull deformities were observed in rabbits with administration of mifepristone at doses lower than the human exposure level based on body surface area .
Data Animal Data In teratology studies in mice , rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 25 to 4 . 0 mg / kg ( less than 1 / 100 to approximately 1 / 3 the human exposure based on body surface area ) , because of the antiprogestational activity of mifepristone , fetal losses were much higher than in control animals .
Skull deformities were detected in rabbit studies at approximately 1 / 6 the human exposure , although no teratogenic effects of mifepristone have been observed to date in rats or mice .
These deformities were most likely due to the mechanical effects of uterine contractions resulting from inhibition of progesterone action .
8 . 2 Lactation Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is present in human milk .
Limited data demonstrate undetectable to low levels of the drug in human milk with the relative ( weight - adjusted ) infant dose 0 . 5 % or less as compared to maternal dosing .
There is no information on the effects of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg in a regimen with misoprostol in a breastfed infant or on milk production .
Refer to misoprostol labeling for lactation information with the use of misoprostol .
The developmental and health benefits of breast - feeding should be considered along with any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg in a regimen with misoprostol .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg have been established in pregnant females .
Data from a clinical study of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg that included a subset of 322 females under age 17 demonstrated a safety and efficacy profile similar to that observed in adults .
10 OVERDOSAGE No serious adverse reactions were reported in tolerance studies in healthy non - pregnant female and healthy male subjects where mifepristone was administered in single doses greater than 1 , 800 mg ( ninefold the recommended dose for medical abortion ) .
If a patient ingests a massive overdose , she should be observed closely for signs of adrenal failure .
11 DESCRIPTION Mifepristone tablets each contain 200 mg of mifepristone , a synthetic steroid with antiprogestational effects .
The tablets are light yellow in color , circular , bi - convex , and are intended for oral administration only .
The tablets include the inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , and magnesium stearate .
Mifepristone is a substituted 19 - nor steroid compound chemically designated as 11ß - [ p - ( Dimethylamino ) phenyl ] - 17ß - hydroxy - 17 - ( 1 - propynyl ) estra - 4 , 9 - dien - 3 - one .
Its empirical formula is C 29 H 35 NO 2 .
Its structural formula is : The compound is a yellow powder with a molecular weight of 429 . 6 and a melting point of 192 - 196 ° C .
It is freely soluble in methanol , chloroform and acetone and poorly soluble in water , hexane and isopropyl ether .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The anti - progestational activity of mifepristone results from competitive interaction with progesterone at progesterone - receptor sites .
Based on studies with various oral doses in several animal species ( mouse , rat , rabbit , and monkey ) , the compound inhibits the activity of endogenous or exogenous progesterone , resulting in effects on the uterus and cervix that , when combined with misoprostol , result in termination of an intrauterine pregnancy .
During pregnancy , the compound sensitizes the myometrium to the contraction - inducing activity of prostaglandins .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Use of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg in a regimen with misoprostol disrupts pregnancy by causing decidual necrosis , myometrial contractions , and cervical softening , leading to the expulsion of the products of conception .
Doses of 1 mg / kg or greater of mifepristone have been shown to antagonize the endometrial and myometrial effects of progesterone in women .
Antiglucocorticoid and antiandrogenic activity : Mifepristone also exhibits antiglucocorticoid and weak antiandrogenic activity .
The activity of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone in rats was inhibited following doses of 10 to 25 mg / kg of mifepristone .
Doses of 4 . 5 mg / kg or greater in human beings resulted in a compensatory elevation of adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) and cortisol .
Antiandrogenic activity was observed in rats following repeated administration of doses from 10 to 100 mg / kg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Mifepristone is rapidly absorbed after oral ingestion with non - linear pharmacokinetics for C max after single oral doses of 200 mg and 600 mg in healthy subjects .
Absorption The absolute bioavailability of a 20 mg mifepristone oral dose in women of childbearing age is 69 % .
Following oral administration of a single dose of 600 mg , mifepristone is rapidly absorbed , with a peak plasma concentration of 1 . 98 ± 1 . 0 mg / L occurring approximately 90 minutes after ingestion .
Following oral administration of a single dose of 200 mg in healthy men ( n = 8 ) , mean C max was1 . 77 ± 0 . 7 mg / L occurring approximately 45 minutes after ingestion .
Mean AUC0 - ∞ was 25 . 8 ± 6 . 2 mg * hr / L .
Distribution Mifepristone is 98 % bound to plasma proteins , albumin , and 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Binding to the latter protein is saturable , and the drug displays nonlinear kinetics with respect to plasma concentration and clearance .
Elimination Following a distribution phase , elimination of mifepristone is slow at first ( 50 % eliminated between 12 and 72 hours ) and then becomes more rapid with a terminal elimination half - life of 18 hours .
Metabolism Metabolism of mifepristone is primarily via pathways involving N - demethylation and terminal hydroxylation of the 17 - propynyl chain .
In vitro studies have shown that CYP450 3A4 is primarily responsible for the metabolism .
The three major metabolites identified in humans are : ( 1 ) RU 42 633 , the most widely found in plasma , is the N - monodemethylated metabolite ; ( 2 ) RU 42 848 , which results from the loss of two methyl groups from the 4 - dimethylaminophenyl in position 11ß ; and ( 3 ) RU 42 698 , which results from terminal hydroxylation of the 17 - propynyl chain .
Excretion By 11 days after a 600 mg dose of tritiated compound , 83 % of the dr ug has been accounted for by the feces and 9 % by the urine .
Serum concentrations are undetectable by 11 days .
Specific Populations The effects of age , hepatic disease and renal disease on the safety , efficacy and pharmacokinetics of mifepristone have not been investigated .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of mifepristone have been performed .
Mutagenesis Results from studies conducted in vitro and in animals have revealed no genotoxic potential for mifepristone .
Among the tests carried out were : Ames test with and without metabolic activation ; gene conversion test in Saccharomyces cerevisiae D4 cells ; forward mutation in Schizosaccharomyces pompe P1 cells ; induction of unscheduled DNA synthesis in cultured HeLa cells ; induction of chromosome aberrations in CHO cells ; in vitro test for gene mutation in V79 Chinese hamster lung cells ; and micronucleus test in mice .
Impairment of Fertility In rats , administration of 0 . 3 mg / kg mifepristone per day caused severe disruption of the estrus cycles for the three weeks of the treatment period .
Following resumption of the estrus cycle , animals were mated and no effects on reproductive performance were observed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Safety and efficacy data from clinical studies of mifepristone 200 mg orally followed 24 - 48 hours later by misoprostol 800 mcg buccally through 70 days gestation are reported below .
Success was defined as the complete expulsion of the products of conception without the need for surgical intervention .
The overall rates of success and failure , shown by reason for failure based on 22 worldwide clinical studies ( including 7 US studies ) appear in Table 3 .
The demographics of women who participated in the US clinical studies varied depending on study location and represent the racial and ethnic variety of American females .
Females of all reproductive ages were represented , including females less than 18 and more than 40 years of age ; most were 27 years or younger .
Table 3 Outcome Following Treatment with Mifepristone ( oral ) and Misoprostol ( buccal ) Through 70 Days Gestation US Trials Non - US Trials N 16 , 794 18 , 425 Complete Medical Abortion 97 . 4 % 96 . 2 % Surgical Intervention * 2 . 6 % 3 . 8 % Ongoing Pregnancy ** 0 . 7 % 0 . 9 % * Reasons for surgical intervention include ongoing pregnancy , medical necessity , persistent or heavy bleeding after treatment , patient request , or incomplete expulsion .
** Ongoing pregnancy is a subcategory of surgical intervention , indicating the percent of women who have surgical intervention due to an ongoing pregnancy .
Table 4 Outcome by Gestational Age Following Treatment with Mifepristone and Misoprostol ( buccal ) for US and Non - US Clinical Studies < 49 days 50 - 56 days 57 - 63 days 64 - 70 days N % Number of Evaluable Studies N % Number of Evaluable Studies N % Number of Evaluable Studies N % Number of Evaluable Studies Complete medical abortion 12 , 046 98 . 1 10 3 , 941 96 . 8 7 2 , 294 94 . 7 9 479 92 . 7 4 Surgical intervention for ongoing pregnancy 10 , 272 0 . 3 6 3 , 788 0 . 8 6 2 , 211 2 8 453 3 . 1 3 One clinical study asked subjects through 70 days gestation to estimate when they expelled the pregnancy , with 70 % providing data .
Of these , 23 - 38 % reported expulsion within 3 hours and over 90 % within 24 hours of using misoprostol .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is only available through a restricted program called the Mifepristone REMS Program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is supplied as light yellow , circular , bi - convex , uncoated tablets debossed with “ S ” on one side and plain on other side .
Each tablet contains 200 mg of mifepristone .
One tablet is individually blistered on one blister card that is packaged in an individual package ( National Drug Code 43393 - 001 - 01 ) .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) , included with each package of Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg .
Additional copies of the Medication Guide are available by contacting GenBioPro , Inc . , at 1 - 855 - MIFEINFO ( 1 - 855 - 643 - 3463 ) or from www . MIFEINFO . com .
Serious Infections and Bleeding • Inform the patient that uterine bleeding and uterine cramping will occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Advise the patient that serious and sometimes fatal infections and bleeding can occur very rarely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg are only available through a restricted program called the Mifepristone REMS Program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Under the Mifepristone REMS Program : • Patients must sign a Patient Agreement Form .
• Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg is only available in clinics , medical offices and hospitals and not through retail pharmacies .
Provider Contacts and Actions in Case of Complications • Ensure that the patient knows whom to call and what to do , including going to an emergency room if none of the provided contacts are reachable , or if she experiences complications including prolonged heavy bleeding , severe abdominal pain , or sustained fever [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• Advise the patient to take the Medication Guide with her if she visits an emergency room or another healthcare provider who did not prescribe Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg , so that the provider will be aware that the patient is undergoing a medical abortion with Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg .
Compliance with Treatment Schedule and Follow - up Assessment • Advise the patient that it is necessary to complete the treatment schedule ; including a follow - up assessment approximately 7 to14 days after taking Mifepristone tablets , 200 mg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Explain that : • prolonged heavy vaginal bleeding is not proof of a complete abortion , • if the treatment fails and the pregnancy continues , the risk of fetal malformation is unknown , • it is recommended that ongoing pregnancy be managed by surgical termination [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise the patient whether you will provide such care or will refer her to another provider .
Subsequent Fertility • Inform the patient that another pregnancy can occur following medical abortion and before resumption of normal menses .
• Inform the patient that contraception can be initiated as soon as pregnancy expulsion has been confirmed , or before she resumes sexual intercourse .
Manufactured for : GenBioPro , Inc .
P . O . Box 32011 Las Vegas , NV 89103 1 - 855 - MIFEINFO ( 1 - 855 - 643 - 3463 ) www . MIFEINFO . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
