Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / v Purpose Promotes hair growth Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) Warnings For external use only Extremely Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use if • you are a pregnant women • you have open skin wounds • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair . Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some people you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person . This product will not work for all people .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients water , vitamin H ( biotin ) , alcohol , ginger extract , carthamus tinctorius ( safflower ) flower extract , fraxinus excelsior bark extract , fructus acerola extract , ligusticum chuanxiong root extract , glycyrrhiza uralensis ( licorice ) root extract , arctium lappa langelica sinensis root extract , thuja orientalis seed extract , polygonum multiflorum root extract , capsaicin For More Information : 1 - 858 - 859 - 0969 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
