Warning : Hypotonic and hemolytic .
Do not inject until made approximately isotonic by addition of appropriate solute .
Pharmacy Bulk Package Not For Direct Infusion DESCRIPTION Sterile Water for Injection USP is a clear , colorless , odorless liquid .
It is sterile , hypotonic , nonpyrogenic , and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
Sterile Water for Injection USP is a diluent suitable for intravascular injection after first having been made approximately isotonic by the addition of suitable solute .
pH : 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 0 ) Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during use .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sterile Water for Injection USP is used as a diluent for other parenteral drugs .
As such , Sterile Water for Injection USP contributes to the water for hydration when provided in parenteral drug and fluid therapy , after the introduction of suitable additives and / or mixture with suitable solutes to approximate isotonicity .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sterile Water for Injection USP is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a diluent in the aseptic preparation of parenteral solutions or as a vehicle for drug administration after admixture or dilution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS This solution is for compounding only , not for direct infusion .
Hypotonic and hemolytic .
Do not inject until made approximately isotonic by addition of an appropriate solute , due to the possibility of hemolysis .
The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from the mixing of additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration and periodically during administration .
Do not use plastic container in series connection .
If administration of Sterile Water for Injection USP after admixture or dilution is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
If administration is not controlled by a pumping device , refrain from applying excessive pressure ( > 300 mmHg ) causing distortion to the container such as wringing or twisting .
Such handling could result in breakage of the container .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration after admixture or dilution using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
The drug product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Refer to the package insert of the solute used .
Usage in Pregnancy Refer to the package insert of the solute used .
Nursing Mothers Refer to the package insert of the solute used .
Pediatric Use Refer to the package insert of the solute used .
See WARNINGS section regarding aluminum .
Geriatric Use Refer to the package insert of the solute used .
See WARNINGS section regarding aluminum .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Refer to the package insert of the solute used .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage ( hypotonic expansion ) is a function of an increase in fluid intake over fluid output , and occurs when the increase in the volume of body fluids is due to water alone .
Overdosage may occur in patients who receive large quantities of electrolyte - free water to replace abnormal excessive fluid losses , in patients whose renal tolerance to water loads is exceeded , or in patients who retain water postoperatively in response to stress .
Manifestations of water intoxication are behavioral changes ( confusion , apathy , disorientation and attendant hyponatremia ) , central nervous system disturbances ( weakness , muscle twitching , headaches , nausea , vomiting , convulsions ) and weight gain .
Treatment consists of withholding fluids until excessive water is excreted .
In severe hyponatremia it may be necessary to cautiously administer hypertonic saline to increase extracellular osmotic pressure and excretion of excess water by the kidneys .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution is for intravenous use only after admixture or dilution .
Do not inject until made approximately isotonic by addition of appropriate solute .
Following suitable admixture of prescribed drugs , the dosage is usually dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
See directions accompanying drugs .
The dosage and administration of Sterile Water for Injection USP is dependent upon the recommended dosage and administration of the solute used .
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When performing admixture or dilution , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile Water for Injection USP is supplied in 2000 and 3000 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package containers packaged 4 per case .
NDC REF Size 0264 - 7385 - 50 S8505 2000 mL 0264 - 7385 - 60 S8506 3000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Rx only Revised : May 2019 Directions for use of Plastic Container Warning : Hypotonic and hemolytic .
Do not inject until made approximately isotonic by addition of appropriate solute .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration and final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral solutions where possible .
Sterile Water for Injection USP in the Pharmacy Bulk Package is intended for use in the preparation of sterile , intravenous admixtures .
Additives may be incompatible with the fluid withdrawn from this container .
Complete information is not available .
Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When compounding admixtures , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store any unused portion of Sterile Water for Injection USP .
Preparation [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Inspect overwrap and primary bag .
• Do not use if overwrap has been damaged .
• Do not use unless solution is clear and closure is intact .
1 .
To open : Tear overwrap starting from the tear notches .
( Figure 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] For Pharmacy Bulk Packages • The Pharmacy Bulk Package is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar air flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
• For compounding only .
Do not use for direct infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not use / penetrate blocked port ( see Figure 2 , left upper corner ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Suspend container .
• Remove aluminum foil of set port at the bottom of container ( see Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Attach suitable transfer device or compounding set ( Figure 2 ) .
Refer to complete directions accompanying device .
• Hang bag on suitable fixture ( Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Once container closure has been penetrated , withdrawal of content should be completed within 4 hours .
Important Admixing Instructions • The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion or , through a sterile transfer device , for the filling of empty sterile syringes .
• Additives may be incompatible with the fluid withdrawn from this container .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When compounding admixtures , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution container permits .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 www . bbraun . com Made in USA Y36 - 002 - 998 LD - 454 - 2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2000 mL STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION USP WARNING : HYPOTONIC AND HEMOLYTIC .
DO NOT INJECT UNTIL MADE APPROXIMATELY ISOTONIC BY ADDITION OF APPROPRIATE SOLUTE .
REF S8505 NDC 0264 - 7385 - 50 LOT EXP .
2000 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package Not For Direct Infusion No antimicrobial agent or other substance has been added .
Sterile .
Pharmacy bulk package container .
WARNINGS : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
CONTAINS NO MORE THAN 25 mcg / L OF ALUMINUM Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
Once container closure has been penetrated , withdrawal of content should be completed within 4 hours .
See Package Insert .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Y38 - 000 - 065 LD - 455 - 3 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 SET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3000 mL STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION USP WARNING : HYPOTONIC AND HEMOLYTIC .
DO NOT INJECT UNTIL MADE APPROXIMATELY ISOTONIC BY ADDITION OF APPROPRIATE SOLUTE .
REF S8506 NDC 0264 - 7385 - 60 LOT EXP .
3000 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package Not For Direct Infusion No antimicrobial agent or other substance has been added .
Sterile .
Pharmacy bulk package container .
WARNINGS : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
CONTAINS NO MORE THAN 25 mcg / L OF ALUMINUM Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
Once container closure has been penetrated , withdrawal of content should be completed within 4 hours .
See Package Insert .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Y38 - 000 - 066 LD - 456 - 3 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 SET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
