DESCRIPTION Mexiletine hydrochloride , USP is an orally active antiarrhythmic agent .
It is a white or almost white powder , freely soluble in dehydrated alcohol and water .
Mexiletine hydrochloride , USP has a pKa of 8 . 30 .
The chemical name of mexiletine hydrochloride , USP is 2 - Propanamine , 1 - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenoxy ) , hydrochloride , ( ± ) - and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule for oral administration , contains 150 mg , 200 mg , or 250 mg of mexiletine hydrochloride , USP .
100 mg of mexiletine hydrochloride , USP is equivalent to 83 . 31 mg of mexiletine base .
In addition , each capsule contains the following excipients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , magnesium stearate .
The capsule shell contains : D & C Red # 28 , FD & C Blue # 1 , gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The imprinting ink contains : black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Mexiletine hydrochloride is a local anesthetic , antiarrhythmic agent , structurally similar to lidocaine , but orally active .
In animal studies , mexiletine has been shown to be effective in the suppression of induced ventricular arrhythmias , including those induced by glycoside toxicity and coronary artery ligation .
Mexiletine , like lidocaine , inhibits the inward sodium current , thus reducing the rate of rise of the action potential , Phase 0 .
Mexiletine decreased the effective refractory period ( ERP ) in Purkinje fibers .
The decrease in ERP was of lesser magnitude than the decrease in action potential duration ( APD ) , with a resulting increase in the ERP / APD ratio .
Electrophysiology in Man Mexiletine is a Class 1 B antiarrhythmic compound with electrophysiologic properties in man similar to those of lidocaine , but dissimilar from quinidine , procainamide , and disopyramide .
In patients with normal conduction systems , mexiletine has a minimal effect on cardiac impulse generation and propagation .
In clinical trials , no development of second - degree or third degree AV block was observed .
Mexiletine did not prolong ventricular depolarization ( QRS duration ) or repolarization ( QT intervals ) as measured by electrocardiography .
Theoretically , therefore , mexiletine may be useful in the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias associated with a prolonged QT interval .
In patients with preexisting conduction defects , depression of the sinus rate , prolongation of sinus node recovery time , decreased conduction velocity and increased effective refractory period of the intraventricular conduction system have occasionally been observed .
The antiarrhythmic effect of mexiletine has been established in controlled comparative trials against placebo , quinidine , procainamide and disopyramide .
Mexiletine hydrochloride , at doses of 200 to 400 mg q8h , produced a significant reduction of ventricular premature beats , paired beats , and episodes of non - sustained ventricular tachycardia compared to placebo and was similar in effectiveness to the active agents .
Among all patients entered into the studies , about 30 % in each treatment group had a 70 % or greater reduction in PVC count and about 40 % failed to complete the 3 month studies because of adverse effects .
Follow - up of patients from the controlled trials has demonstrated continued effectiveness of mexiletine in long - term use .
Hemodynamics Hemodynamic studies in a limited number of patients , with normal or abnormal myocardial function , following oral administration of mexiletine hydrochloride , have shown small , usually not statistically significant , decreases in cardiac output and increases in systemic vascular resistance , but no significant negative inotropic effect .
Blood pressure and pulse rate remain essentially unchanged .
Mild depression of myocardial function , similar to that produced by lidocaine , has occasionally been observed following intravenous mexiletine therapy in patients with cardiac disease .
Pharmacokinetics Mexiletine is well absorbed ( ~ 90 % ) from the gastrointestinal tract .
Unlike lidocaine , its first - pass metabolism is low .
Peak blood levels are reached in two to three hours .
In normal subjects , the plasma elimination half - life of mexiletine is approximately 10 to 12 hours .
It is 50 to 60 % bound to plasma protein , with a volume of distribution of 5 to 7 liters / kg .
Mexiletine is mainly metabolized in the liver , the primary pathway being CYP2D6 metabolism , although it is also a substrate for CYP1A2 .
With involvement of CYP2D6 , there can be either poor or extensive metabolizer phenotypes .
Since approximately 90 % of mexiletine hydrochloride is metabolized in the liver into inactive metabolites , pathological changes in the liver can restrict hepatic clearance of mexiletine hydrochloride and its metabolites .
The metabolic degradation proceeds via various pathways including aromatic and aliphatic hydroxylation , dealkylation , deamination and N - oxidation .
Several of the resulting metabolites are submitted to further conjugation with glucuronic acid ( phase II metabolism ) ; among these are the major metabolites p - hydroxymexiletine , hydroxy - methylmexiletine and N - hydroxy - mexiletine .
Approximately 10 % is excreted unchanged by the kidney .
While urinary pH does not normally have much influence on elimination , marked changes in urinary pH influence the rate of excretion : acidification accelerates excretion , while alkalinization retards it .
Several metabolites of mexiletine have shown minimal antiarrhythmics activity in animal models .
The most active is the minor metabolite N - methylmexiletine , which is less than 20 % as potent as mexiletine .
The urinary excretion of N - methylmexiletine in man is less than 0 . 5 % .
Thus the therapeutic activity of mexiletine is due to the parent compound .
Hepatic impairment prolongs the elimination half - life of mexiletine .
In eight patients with moderate to severe liver disease , the mean half - life was approximately 25 hours .
Consistent with the limited renal elimination of mexiletine , little change in the half - life has been detected in patients with reduced renal function .
In eight patients with creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min , the mean plasma elimination half - life was 15 . 7 hours ; in seven patients with creatinine clearance between 11 to 40 mL / min , the mean half - life was 13 . 4 hours .
The absorption rate of mexiletine is reduced in clinical situations such as acute myocardial infarction in which gastric emptying time is increased .
Narcotics , atropine and magnesium - aluminum hydroxide have also been reported to slow the absorption of mexiletine .
Metoclopramide has been reported to accelerate absorption .
Mexiletine plasma levels of at least 0 . 5 mcg / mL are generally required for therapeutic response .
An increase in the frequency of central nervous system adverse effects has been observed when plasma levels exceed 2 mcg / mL .
Thus the therapeutic range is approximately 0 . 5 to 2 mcg / mL .
Plasma levels within the therapeutic range can be attained with either three times daily or twice daily dosing but peak to trough differences are greater with the latter regimen , creating the possibility of adverse effects at peak and arrhythmic escape at trough .
Nevertheless , some patients may be transferred successfully to the twice daily regimen .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mexiletine hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of documented ventricular arrhythmias , such as sustained ventricular tachycardia , that , in the judgment of the physician , are life - threatening .
Because of the proarrhythmic effects of mexiletine , its use with lesser arrhythmias is generally not recommended .
Treatment of patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature contractions should be avoided .
Initiation of mexiletine treatment , as with other antiarrhythmic agents used to treat life - threatening arrhythmias , should be carried out in the hospital .
Antiarrhythmic drugs have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with ventricular arrhythmias .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Mexiletine hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in the presence of cardiogenic shock or preexisting second - or third - degree AV block ( if no pacemaker is present ) .
WARNINGS BOXED WARNING WARNINGS Mortality In the National Heart , Lung and Blood Institute ’ s Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial ( CAST ) , a long - term , multicentered , randomized , double - blind study in patients with asymptomatic non - life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias who had a myocardial infarction more than six days but less than two years previously , an excessive mortality or non - fatal cardiac arrest rate ( 7 . 7 % ) was seen in patients treated with encainide or flecainide compared with that seen in patients assigned to carefully matched placebo - treated groups ( 3 . 0 % ) .
The average duration of treatment with encainide or flecainide in this study was ten months .
The applicability of the CAST results to other populations ( e . g . , those without recent myocardial infarction ) is uncertain .
Considering the known proarrhythmic properties of mexiletine and the lack of evidence of improved survival for any antiarrhythmic drug in patients without life - threatening arrhythmias , the use of mexiletine as well as other antiarrhythmic agents should be reserved for patients with life - threatening ventricular arrhythmia .
Acute Liver Injury In postmarketing experience abnormal liver function tests have been reported , some in the first few weeks of therapy with mexiletine hydrochloride .
Most of these have been observed in the setting of congestive heart failure or ischemia and their relations hip to mexiletine hydrochloride has not been established .
Drug Reactions with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) Drug reactions with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) have been reported in patients taking mexiletine .
DRESS typically presents with eosinophilia , fever , rash , and / or lymphadenopathy in association with other organ involvement , such as hepatitis , nephritis , hematologic abnormalities , myocarditis , or myositis , sometimes resembling an acute viral infection .
Discontinue mexiletine if DRESS is suspected .
PRECAUTIONS General If a ventricular pacemaker is operative , patients with second or third degree heart block may be treated with mexiletine hydrochloride if continuously monitored .
A limited number of patients ( 45 of 475 in controlled clinical trials ) with preexisting first degree AV block were treated with mexiletine ; none of these patients developed second or third degree AV block .
Caution should be exercised when it is used in such patients or in patients with preexisting sinus node dysfunction or intraventricular conduction abnormalities .
Like other antiarrhythmics mexiletine hydrochloride can cause worsening of arrhythmias .
This has been uncommon in patients with less serious arrhythmias ( frequent premature beats or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia : see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) , but is of greater concern in patients with life - threatening arrhythmias such as sustained ventricular tachycardia .
In patients with such arrhythmias subjected to programmed electrical stimulation or to exercise provocation , 10 to 15 % of patients had exacerbation of the arrhythmia , a rate not greater than that of other agents .
Mexiletine should be used with caution in patients with hypotension and severe congestive heart failure because of the potential for aggravating these conditions .
Since mexiletine is metabolized in the liver , and hepatic impairment has been reported to prolong the elimination half - life of mexiletine , patients with liver disease should be followed carefully while receiving mexiletine .
The same caution should be observed in patients with hepatic dysfunction secondary to congestive heart failure .
Concurrent drug therapy or dietary regimens which may markedly alter urinary pH should be avoided during mexiletine hydrochloride therapy .
The minor fluctuations in urinary pH associated with normal diet do not affect the excretion of mexiletine .
SGOT Elevation and Liver Injury In three month controlled trials , elevations of SGOT greater than three times the upper limit of normal occurred in about 1 % of both mexiletine - treated and control patients .
Approximately 2 % of patients in the mexiletine compassionate use program had elevations of SGOT greater than or equal to three times the upper limit of normal .
These elevations frequently occurred in association with identifiable clinical events and therapeutic measures such as congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction , blood transfusions and other medications .
These elevations were often asymptomatic and transient , usually not associated with elevated bilirubin levels and usually did not require discontinuation of therapy .
Marked elevations of SGOT ( > 1000 U / L ) were seen before death in four patients with end - stage cardiac disease ( severe congestive heart failure , cardiogenic shock ) .
Rare instances of severe liver injury , including hepatic necrosis , have been reported in association with mexiletine treatment .
It is recommended that patients in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred , or who have signs of symptoms suggesting liver dysfunction , be carefully evaluated .
If persistent or worsening elevation of hepatic enzymes is detected , consideration should be given to discontinuing therapy .
Blood Dyscrasias Among 10 , 867 patients treated with mexiletine in the compassionate use program , marked leukopenia ( neutrophils less than 1000 / mm 3 ) or agranulocytosis were seen in 0 . 06 % and milder depressions of leukocytes were seen in 0 . 08 % , and thrombocytopenia was observed in 0 . 16 % .
Many of these patients were seriously ill and receiving concomitant medications with known hematologic adverse effects .
Rechallenge with mexiletine in several cases was negative .
Marked leukopenia or agranulocytosis did not occur in any patient receiving mexiletine alone ; five of the six cases of agranulocytosis were associated with procainamide ( sustained release preparations in four ) and one with vinblastine .
If significant hematologic changes are observed , the patient should be carefully evaluated , and , if warranted , mexiletine should be discontinued .
Blood counts usually return to normal within a month of discontinuation ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Convulsions ( seizures ) did not occur in mexiletine controlled clinical trials .
In the compassionate use program , convulsions were reported in about 2 of 1000 patients .
Twenty - eight percent of these patients discontinued therapy .
Convulsions were reported in patients with and without a prior history of seizures .
Mexiletine should be used with caution in patients with known seizure disorder .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Since mexiletine hydrochloride is a substrate for the metabolic pathways involving CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 enzymes , inhibition or induction of either of these enzymes would be expected to alter mexiletine plasma concentrations .
In a formal , single - dose interaction study ( n = 6 males ) the clearance of mexiletine was decreased by 38 % following the coadministration of fluvoxamine , an inhibitor of CYP1A2 .
In another formal study ( n = 8 extensive and n = 7 poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 ) , coadministration of propafenone did not alter the kinetics of mexiletine in the poor CYP2D6 metabolizer group .
However , the metabolic clearance of mexiletine in the extensive metabolizer phenotype decreased by about 70 % making the poor and extensive metabolizer groups indistinguishable .
In this crossover steady state study , the pharmacokinetics of propafenone were unaffected in either phenotype by the coadministration of mexiletine .
Addition of mexiletine to propafenone did not lead to further electrocardiographic parameters changes of QRS , QT c , RR , and PR intervals than propafenone alone .
When concomitant administration of either of these two drugs is initiated , the dose of mexiletine should be slowly titrated to desired effect .
In a large compassionate use program mexiletine has been used concurrently with commonly employed antianginal , antihypertensive , and anticoagulant drugs without observed interactions .
A variety of antiarrhythmics such as quinidine or propranolol were also added , sometimes with improved control of ventricular ectopy .
When phenytoin or other hepatic enzyme inducers such as rifampin and phenobarbital have been taken concurrently with mexiletine , lowered mexiletine plasma levels have been reported .
Monitoring of mexiletine plasma levels is recommended during such concurrent use to avoid ineffective therapy .
In a formal study , benzodiazepines were shown not to affect mexiletine plasma concentrations .
ECG intervals ( PR , QRS , and QT ) were not affected by concurrent mexiletine and digoxin , diuretics , or propranolol .
Concurrent administration of cimetidine and mexiletine has been reported to increase , decrease , or leave unchanged mexiletine plasma levels ; therefore patients should be followed carefully during concurrent therapy .
Mexiletine does not alter serum digoxin levels but magnesium - aluminum hydroxide , when used to treat gastrointestinal symptoms due to mexiletine , has been reported to lower serum digoxin levels .
Concurrent use of mexiletine and theophylline may lead to increased plasma theophylline levels .
One controlled study in eight normal subjects showed a 72 % mean increase ( range 35 to 136 % ) in plasma theophylline levels .
This increase was observed at the first test point which was the second day after starting mexiletine .
Theophylline plasma levels returned to pre - mexiletine values within 48 hours after discontinuing mexiletine .
If mexiletine and theophylline are to be used concurrently , theophylline blood levels should be monitored , particularly when the mexiletine dose is changed .
An appropriate adjustment in theophylline dose should be considered .
Additionally , in one controlled study in five normal subjects and seven patients , the clearance of caffeine was decreased 50 % following the administration of mexiletine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies of carcinogenesis in rats ( 24 months ) and mice ( 18 months ) did not demonstrate any tumorigenic potential .
Mexiletine was found to be non - mutagenic in the Ames test .
Mexiletine did not impair fertility in the rat .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category C Reproduction studies performed with mexiletine in rats , mice and rabbits at doses up to four times the maximum human oral dose ( 24 mg / kg in a 50 kg patient ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity or impaired fertility but did show an increase in fetal resorption .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women ; this drug should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
NURSING MOTHERS Mexiletine appears in human milk in concentrations similar to those observed in plasma .
Therefore , if the use of mexiletine hydrochloride is deemed essential , an alternative method of infant feeding should be considered .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Mexiletine hydrochloride commonly produces reversible gastrointestinal and nervous system adverse reactions but is otherwise well tolerated .
Mexiletine has been evaluated in 483 patients in one month and three month controlled studies and in over 10 , 000 patients in a large compassionate use program .
Dosages in the controlled studies ranged from 600 to 1200 mg / day ; some patients ( 8 % ) in the compassionate use program were treated with higher daily doses ( 1600 to 3200 mg / day ) .
In the three month controlled trials comparing mexiletine to quinidine , procainamide and disopyramide , the most frequent adverse reactions were upper gastrointestinal distress ( 41 % ) , lightheadedness ( 10 . 5 % ) , tremor ( 12 . 6 % ) and coordination difficulties ( 10 . 2 % ) .
Similar frequency and incidence were observed in the one month placebo - controlled trial .
Although these reactions were generally not serious , and were dose - related and reversible with a reduction in dosage , by taking the drug with food or antacid or by therapy discontinuation , they led to therapy discontinuation in 40 % of patients in the controlled trials .
Table 1 presents the adverse events reported in the one - month placebo - controlled trial .
Table 1 : Comparative Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Events Among Patients Treated With Mexiletine and Placebo in the 4 Week , Double - Blind Cross over Trial Mexiletine Placebo N = 53 N = 49 Cardiovascular Palpitations 7 . 5 10 . 2 Chest Pain 7 . 5 4 . 1 Increased Ventricular Arrythmia / PVCs 1 . 9 - Digestive Nausea / Vomiting / Heartburn 39 . 6 6 . 1 Central Nervous System Dizziness / Lightheadedness 26 . 4 14 . 3 Tremor 13 . 2 - Nervousness 11 . 3 6 . 1 Coordination Difficulties 9 . 4 - Changes in Sleep Habits 7 . 5 16 . 3 Paresthesias / Numbness 3 . 8 2 Weakness 1 . 9 4 . 1 Fatigue 1 . 9 2 Tinnitus 1 . 9 4 . 1 Confusion / Clouded Sensorium 1 . 9 2 Other Headache 7 . 5 6 . 1 Blurred Vision / Visual Disturbances 7 . 5 2 Dyspnea / Respiratory 5 . 7 10 . 2 Rash 3 . 8 2 Non - specific Edema 3 . 8 - Table 2 presents the adverse reactions occurring in one percent or more of patients in the three month controlled studies .
Table 2 : Comparative Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Events Among Patients Treated With Mexiletine or Control Drugs in the 12 Week Double - Blind Trials Mexiletine Quinidine Procainamide Disopyramide N = 430 N = 262 N = 78 N = 69 Cardiovascular Palpitations 4 . 3 4 . 6 1 . 3 5 . 8 Chest Pain 2 . 6 3 . 4 1 . 3 2 . 9 Angina / Angina - like Pain 1 . 7 1 . 9 2 . 6 2 . 9 Increased Ventricular Arrhythmias / PVCs 1 2 . 7 2 . 6 - Digestive Nausea / Vomiting / Heartburn 39 . 3 21 . 4 33 . 3 14 . 5 Diarrhea 5 . 2 33 . 2 2 . 6 8 . 7 Constipation 4 - 6 . 4 11 . 6 Changes in Appetite 2 . 6 1 . 9 - - Abdominal Pain / Cramps / Discomfort 1 . 2 1 . 5 - 1 . 4 Central Nervous System Dizziness / Lightheadedness 18 . 9 14 . 1 14 . 1 2 . 9 Tremor 13 . 2 2 . 3 3 . 8 1 . 4 Coordination Difficulties 9 . 7 1 . 1 1 . 3 - Changes in Sleep Habits 7 . 1 2 . 7 11 . 5 8 . 7 Weakness 5 5 . 3 7 . 7 2 . 9 Nervousness 5 1 . 9 6 . 4 5 . 8 Fatigue 3 . 8 5 . 7 5 . 1 1 . 4 Speech Difficulties 2 . 6 0 . 4 - - Confusion / Clouded Sensorium 2 . 6 - 3 . 8 - Paresthesias / Numbness 2 . 4 2 . 3 2 . 6 - Tinnitus 2 . 4 1 . 5 - - Depression 2 . 4 1 . 1 1 . 3 1 . 4 Other Blurred Vision / Visual Disturbances 5 . 7 3 . 1 5 . 1 7 . 2 Headache 5 . 7 6 . 9 7 . 7 4 . 3 Rash 4 . 2 3 . 8 10 . 3 1 . 4 Dyspnea / Respiratory 3 . 3 3 . 1 5 . 1 2 . 9 Dry Mouth 2 . 8 1 . 9 5 . 1 14 . 5 Arthralgia 1 . 7 2 . 3 5 . 1 1 . 4 Fever 1 . 2 3 . 1 2 . 6 - Less than 1 % : Syncope , edema , hot flashes , hypertension , short - term memory loss , loss of consciousness , other psychological changes , diaphoresis , urinary hesitancy / retention , malaise , impotence / decreased libido , pharyngitis , congestive heart failure .
An additional group of over 10 , 000 patients has been treated in a program allowing administration of mexiletine hydrochloride under compassionate use circumstances .
These patients were seriously ill with the large majority on multiple drug therapy .
Twenty - four percent of the patients continued in the program for one year or longer .
Adverse reactions leading to therapy discontinuation occurred in 15 percent of patients ( usually upper gastrointestinal system or nervous system effects ) .
In general , the more common adverse reactions were similar to those in the controlled trials .
Less common adverse events possibly related to mexiletine use include : Cardiovascular System Syncope and hypotension , each about 6 in 1000 ; bradycardia , about 4 in 1000 ; angina / angina - like pain , about 3 in 1000 ; edema , atrioventricular block / conduction disturbances and hot flashes , each about 2 in 1000 ; atrial arrhythmias , hypertension and cardiogenic shock , each about 1 in 1000 .
Central Nervous System Short - term memory loss , about 9 in 1000 patients ; hallucinations and other psychological changes , each about 3 in 1000 ; psychosis and convulsions / seizures , each about 2 in 1000 ; loss of consciousness , about 6 in 10 , 000 .
Digestive Dysphagia , about 2 in 1000 ; peptic ulcer , about 8 in 10 , 000 ; upper gastrointestinal bleeding , about 7 in 10 , 000 ; esophageal ulceration , about 1 in 10 , 000 .
Rare cases of severe hepatitis / acute hepatic necrosis .
Skin Rare cases of exfoliative dermatitis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome with mexiletine treatment have been reported .
Laboratory Abnormal liver function tests , about 5 in 1000 ; positive ANA and thrombocytopenia , each about 2 in 1000 ; leukopenia ( including neutropenia and agranulocytosis ) , about 1 in 1000 ; myelofibrosis , about 2 in 10 , 000 patients .
Other Diaphoresis , about 6 in 1000 ; altered taste , about 5 in 1000 ; salivary changes , hair loss and impotence / decreased libido , each about 4 in 1000 ; malaise , about 3 in 1000 ; urinary hesitancy / retention , each about 2 in 1000 ; hiccups , dry skin , laryngeal and pharyngeal changes and changes in oral mucous membranes , each about 1 in 1000 ; SLE syndrome , about 4 in 10 , 000 .
Hematology Blood dyscrasias were not seen in the controlled trials but did occur among 10 , 867 patients treated with mexiletine in the compassionate use program ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Myelofibrosis was reported in two patients in the compassionate use program ; one was receiving long - term thiotepa therapy and the other had pretreatment myeloid abnormalities .
In postmarketing experience , there have been isolated , spontaneous reports of pulmonary changes including pulmonary infiltration and pulmonary fibrosis during mexiletine therapy with or without other drugs or diseases that are known to produce pulmonary toxicity .
A causal relationship to mexiletine therapy has not been established .
In addition , there have been isolated reports of drowsiness , nystagmus , ataxia , dyspepsia , hypersensitivity reaction , and exacerbation of congestive heart failure in patients with preexisting compromised ventricular function .
There have been rare reports of pancreatitis associated with mexiletine treatment .
OVERDOSAGE Clinical findings associated with mexiletine overdosage have included drowsiness , confusion , nausea , hypotension , sinus bradycardia , paresthesia , seizures , bundle branch block , AV heart block , asystole , ventricular tachyarrythmia , including ventricular fibrillation , cardiovascular collapse and coma .
The lowest known dose in a fatality case was 4 . 4 g with postmortem serum mexiletine level of 34 to 37 mcg / mL ( Jequier P . et .
al . , Lancet 1976 : 1 ( 7956 ) : 429 ) .
Patients have recovered from ingestion of 4 g to 18 g of mexiletine ( Frank S . E . et .
al . , Am J Emerg Med 1991 : 9 : 43 - 48 ) .
There is no specific antidote for mexiletine .
Management of mexiletine overdosage includes general supportive measures , close observation and monitoring of vital signs .
In addition , the use of pharmacologic interventions ( e . g . , pressor agents , atropine or anticonvulsants ) or transvenous cardiac pacing is suggested , depending on the patient ’ s clinical condition .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of mexiletine hydrochloride must be individualized on the basis of response and tolerance , both of which are dose - related .
Administration with food or antacid is recommended .
Initiate mexiletine therapy with 200 mg every eight hours when rapid control of arrhythmia is not essential .
A minimum of two to three days between dose adjustments is recommended .
Dose may be adjusted in 50 or 100 mg increments up or down .
As with any antiarrhythmic drug , clinical and electrocardiographic evaluation ( including Holter monitoring if necessary for evaluation ) are needed to determine whether the desired antiarrhythmic effect has been obtained and to guide titration and dose adjustment .
Satisfactory control can be achieved in most patients by 200 to 300 mg given every eight hours with food or antacid .
If satisfactory response has not been achieved at 300 mg q8h , and the patient tolerates mexiletine well , a dose of 400 mg q8h may be tried .
As the severity of CNS side effects increases with total daily dose , the dose should not exceed 1200 mg / day .
In general , patients with renal failure will require the usual doses of mexiletine hydrochloride .
Patients with severe liver disease , however , may require lower doses and must be monitored closely .
Similarly , marked right - sided congestive heart failure can reduce hepatic metabolism and reduce the needed dose .
Plasma level may also be affected by certain concomitant drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Loading Dose When rapid control of ventricular arrhythmia is essential , an initial loading dose of 400 mg of mexiletine hydrochloride may be administered , followed by a 200 mg dose in eight hours .
Onset of therapeutic effect is usually observed within 30 minutes to two hours .
Q12H Dosage Schedule Some patients responding to mexiletine may be transferred to a 12 hour dosage schedule to improve convenience and compliance .
If adequate suppression is achieved on a mexiletine hydrochloride dose of 300 mg or less every eight hours , the same total daily dose may be given in divided doses every 12 hours while carefully monitoring the degree of suppression of ventricular ectopy .
This dose may be adjusted up to a maximum of 450 mg every 12 hours to achieve the desired response .
Transferring to Mexiletine Hydrochloride The following dosage schedule , based on theoretical considerations rather than experimental data , is suggested for transferring patients from other Class I oral antiarrhythmic agents to mexiletine : mexiletine hydrochloride treatment may be initiated with a 200 mg dose , and titrated to response as described above , 6 to 12 hours after the last dose of quinidine sulfate , 3 to 6 hours after the last dose of procainamide , 6 to 12 hours after the last dose of disopryramide or 8 to 12 hours after the last dose of tocainide .
In patients in whom withdrawal of the previous antiarrhythmic agent is likely to produce life - threatening arrhythmias , hospitalization of the patient is recommended .
When transferring from lidocaine to mexiletine , the lidocaine infusion should be stopped when the first oral dose of mexiletine hydrochloride is administered .
The infusion line should be left open until suppression of the arrhythmia appears to be satisfactorily maintained .
Consideration should be given to the similarity of the adverse effects of lidocaine and mexiletine and the possibility that they may be additive .
HOW SUPPLIED Mexiletine hydrochloride capsules USP , 150 mg are white opaque / light blue opaque colored size ' 2 ' , hard gelatin capsules , imprinted with “ V1 ” on cap and “ 30 ” on body , filled with white to off white granular powder .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 31722 - 036 - 01 Mexiletine hydrochloride capsules USP , 200 mg are white opaque / light blue opaque colored size ' 1 ' , hard gelatin capsules , imprinted with “ V1 ” on cap and “ 33 ” on body , filled with white to off white granular powder .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 31722 - 037 - 01 Mexiletine hydrochloride capsules USP , 250 mg are white opaque / light blue opaque colored size ' 0 ' , hard gelatin capsules , imprinted with “ V1 ” on cap and “ 34 ” on body , filled with white to off white granular powder .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 31722 - 038 - 01 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
For more information , call Annora Pharma Private Limited at 1 - 866 - 495 - 1995 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Piscataway , NJ 08854 Manufactured by : Annora Pharma Private Limited Sy .
No . 261 , Annaram Village , Gummadidala Mandal , Sangareddy District - 502313 Telangana , India .
Revised : 11 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Mexiletine Hydrochloride Capsules 150 mg Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mexiletine Hydrochloride Capsules 200 mg Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mexiletine Hydrochloride Capsules 250 mg Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
