DESCRIPTION : NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % is a sterile , antifungal drug for topical ophthalmic administration .
Each mL of NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) contains : Active : natamycin 5 % ( 50 mg ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 02 % .
Inactive : sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( neutralized to adjust the pH ) , purified water .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established Name : Natamycin Molecular Formula : C 33 H 47 NO 13 Molecular Weight : 665 . 73 g / mol Chemical Name : Stereoisomer of 22 - [ ( 3 - amino - 3 , 6 - dideoxy - β - D - mannopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 3 , 26 - trihydroxy - 12 - methyl - 10 - oxo - 6 , 11 , 28 - trioxatricyclo [ 22 . 3 . 1 . 05 , 7 ] octacosa - 8 , 14 , 16 , 18 , 20 - pentaene - 25 - carboxylic acid .
Other : Pimaricin The pH range is 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Natamycin is a tetraene polyene antibiotic derived from Streptomyces natalensis .
It possesses in vitro activity against a variety of yeast and filamentous fungi , including Candida , Aspergillus , Cephalosporium , Fusarium and Penicillium .
The mechanism of action appears to be through binding of the molecule to the sterol moiety of the fungal cell membrane .
The polyenesterol complex alters the permeability of the membrane to produce depletion of essential cellular constituents .
Although the activity against fungi is dose - related , natamycin is predominantly fungicidal .
Natamycin is not effective in vitro against gram - positive or gram - negative bacteria .
Topical administration appears to produce effective concentrations of natamycin within the corneal stroma but not in intraocular fluid .
Systemic absorption should not be expected following topical administration of NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % .
As with other polyene antibiotics , absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is very poor .
Studies in rabbits receiving topical natamycin revealed no measurable compound in the aqueous humor or sera , but the sensitivity of the measurement was no greater than 2 mg / mL .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % is indicated for the treatment of fungal blepharitis , conjunctivitis , and keratitis caused by susceptible organisms including Fusarium solani keratitis .
As in other forms of suppurative keratitis , initial and sustained therapy of fungal keratitis should be determined by the clinical diagnosis , laboratory diagnosis by smear and culture of corneal scrapings and drug response .
Whenever possible the in vitro activity of natamycin against the responsible fungus should be determined .
The effectiveness of natamycin as a single agent in fungal endophthalmitis has not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS : General .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY — NOT FOR INJECTION .
Failure of improvement of keratitis following 7 - 10 days of administration of the drug suggests that the infection may be caused by a microorganism not susceptible to natamycin .
Continuation of therapy should be based on clinical re - evaluation and additional laboratory studies .
Adherence of the suspension to areas of epithelial ulceration or retention of the suspension in the fornices occurs regularly .
Use only if the container is undamaged .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the suspension .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of fungal blepharitis , conjunctivitis , and keratitis .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There have been no long term studies done using natamycin in animals to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with natamycin .
It is also not known whether natamycin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether these drugs are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when natamycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following events have been identified during post - marketing use of NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % , or a combination of these factors include : allergic reaction , change in vision , chest pain , corneal opacity , dyspnea , eye discomfort , eye edema , eye hyperemia , eye irritation , eye pain , foreign body sensation , parethesia , and tearing .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
The preferred initial dosage in fungal keratitis is one drop of NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % instilled in the conjunctival sac at hourly or two - hourly intervals .
The frequency of application can usually be reduced to one drop 6 to 8 times daily after the first 3 to 4 days .
Therapy should generally be continued for 14 to 21 days or until there is resolution of active fungal keratitis .
In many cases , it may be helpful to reduce the dosage gradually at 4 to 7 day intervals to assure that the replicating organism has been eliminated .
Less frequent initial dosage ( 4 to 6 daily applications ) may be sufficient in fungal blepharitis and conjunctivitis .
HOW SUPPLIED : NATACYN ® ( natamycin ophthalmic suspension ) 5 % is a 15 mL fill packaged in a 15 mL amber glass bottle with a black closure .
A flint glass dropper with a red plastic closure and a black rubber bulb are packaged separately in a clear plastic blister with Tyvek backing .
15 mL NDC 71776 - 005 - 15 STORAGE : Store between 2 ° C to 24 ° C ( 36 ° F - 75 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Avoid exposure to light and excessive heat .
Rx Only Distributed by : Eyevance Pharmceuticals , LLC Fort Worth , Texas 76134 Revised : 05 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
