Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep away form face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions shake well before use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face reapply .
after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Water , Aloe Barbadensis leaf Juice , Glycerin , Butylphthallmide , Caramel , Phenoxyethanol , Isopropylphthalimide , Fragrance , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Dimethicone , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , polysorbate 20 , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Tetrasodium Glutamte Diacetate , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Ethylhexylglycerin , Sodium Hydroxide , propylene Glycol , Sorbitan Oleate , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Sodium Chloride Other information • Protect this product form excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics or surfaces Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) Australian Gold Instant Bronzer Spray Gel Sunscreen SPF15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
