DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP are an orally active cholinesterase inhibitor .
Chemically , pyridostigmine bromide is 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine bromide , USP is a white or almost white crystalline , deliquescent powder .
It is very soluble in water and in alcohol , slightly soluble in hexane , practically insoluble in ether .
Each pyridostigmine bromide tablet , USP intended for oral administration contains 60 mg of pyridostigmine bromide , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , silicon dioxide and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pyridostigmine bromide inhibits the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase and thereby permits freer transmission of nerve impulses across the neuromuscular junction .
Pyridostigmine is an analog of neostigmine ( Prostigmin ® # ) , but differs from it in certain clinically significant respects ; for example , pyridostigmine is characterized by a longer duration of action and fewer gastrointestinal side effects .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP are useful in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP are contraindicated in mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction , and particular caution should be used in its administration to patients with bronchial asthma .
Care should be observed in the use of atropine for counteracting side effects , as discussed below .
WARNINGS Although failure of patients to show clinical improvement may reflect underdosage , it can also be indicative of overdosage .
As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of pyridostigmine bromide may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness which , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Myasthenic crisis due to an increase in the severity of the disease is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness , and thus may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
Such differentiation is extremely important , since increases in doses of pyridostigmine bromide or other drugs of this class in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or " insensitive " state could have grave consequences .
Osserman and Genkins1 indicate that the differential diagnosis of the two types of crisis may require the use of Tensilon ® # ( edrophonium chloride ) as well as clinical judgment .
The treatment of the two conditions obviously differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis suggests the need for more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , the diagnosis of cholinergic crisis , according to Osserman and Genkins , 1 calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to abolish or obtund gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
For detailed information on the management of patients with myasthenia gravis , the physician is referred to one of the excellent reviews such as those by Osserman and Genkins , 2 Grob3 or Schwab . 4 , 5 Usage in Pregnancy : The safety of pyridostigmine bromide during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of pyridostigmine bromide in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ' s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTIONS Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney . 6 , 7 , 8 Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect . 6 , 7 Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of pyridostigmine bromide are most commonly related to overdosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine , but for reasons shown in the preceding section the expedient is not without danger .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP is available as Conventional Tablets - each containing 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide .
Dosage : The size and frequency of the dosage must be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient .
Conventional Tablets - The average dose is ten 60 mg tablets , spaced to provide maximum relief when maximum strength is needed .
In severe cases as many as 25 tablets a day may be required , while in mild cases one to six tablets a day may suffice .
Note : For information on a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis , and for the evaluation and stabilization of therapy , please see product literature on Tensilon ® # ( edrophonium chloride ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets USP , 60 mg having functional scoring .
Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets USP , 60 mg are white to off - white , round , flat , uncoated tablets with quadrisect breakline on one side and debossed with ' 659 ' on the other side and are supplied as follows : NDC 65841 - 819 - 06 in bottles of 30 tablets NDC 65841 - 819 - 16 in bottles of 90 tablets NDC 65841 - 819 - 01 in bottles of 100 tablets NDC 65841 - 819 - 05 in bottles of 500 tablets Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in original container .
IMPORTANT : Thesetabletsarehygroscopic . Keepinadryplacewiththesilicagelenclosed .
REFERENCES • Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis : Reduction in mortality rate after crisis .
JAMA .
Jan 1963 ; 183 : 97 - 101 .
• Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis .
NY State J Med .
June 1961 ; 61 : 2076 - 2085 .
• Grob D . Myasthenia gravis .
A review of pathogenesis and treatment .
Arch Intern Med .
Oct 1961 ; 108 : 615 - 638 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 596 - 597 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 717 - 719 .
• Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB .
Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1980 ; 28 : No . 1 , 78 - 81 .
• Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
In : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , ed .
Anaesthesiology .
( Hamburg , Germany : Congress ; Sep 14 - 21 , 1980 ; 222 - 223 . )
( Int Congr .
No . 538 ) , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica ; 1981 .
• Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM , Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1985 ; 5 : 495 - 501 .
# Brands mentioned are trademarks of their respective owners .
Callyourdoctorformedicaladviceaboutsideeffects . YoumayreportsideeffectstoFDAat1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufacturedby : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Baddi , India Rev . : 06 / 15 Revision Date : 30 / 06 / 2015 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 65841 - 819 - 01 in bottles of 100 tablets Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets USP , 60 mg 100 Tablets Rx only Zydus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
