Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison control centre right away Drug Facts active ingredients octinoxate 5 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 6 % purpose sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age ask a doctor sun protectin measures spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
to decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including limit time in the sun especially from 10 am to 2 pm , wear long sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Soft natural matte foundation Specially created with our patented , fine , oil absorbing powder , this lightweight formulation glides on effortlessly to ensure shine breakthrough is controlled and your colour remains true all day .
The unique mattifying formula ensures pores are less visble , whilst Salicylic acid helps fight against bacteria , which cause spots .
Also contains our powerful anitoxidant complex and SPF 15 that will help protect against the ageing effects of the sun if the product is used as directed with other sun protection measures .
For best results blend smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge .
Hypo - allergenic because all skin can have sensitive moments , all our foundation products are hypo - allergenic using ingredients we know and trust .
inactive ingredients aqua ( water ) , cyclopentasiloxane , phenyl trimethicone , alcohol denat , nylon 6 / 12 , glycerin , cyclohexsiloxane , zinc oxide , disteardimonium hectorite , magnesium sulfate , PEG PPG 19 / 19 dimethicone , tocopheryl acetate , hexyl laurate , polyglyceryl - 4 - isostearate , propylene carbonate , lauryl methacrylate / glycol dimethacrylate cross polymer , salicylic acid , aluminum hydroxide , phenoxyethanol , lens esculenta fruit extract , stearic acid , triethoxycaprylylsilane , potassium hydroxide , retinyl palmitate , ascorbyl glucoside , tetrasodium edta , isopropyl palmitate , methylparaben , lecithin , ethylparaben , phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , dimethoxyl chromanol , ethylhexylglycerin , ginkgo biloba leaf extract , BHT , tocopherol , may contain CI 77891 ( titanium dioxide ) .
USA Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist by Boots Retail USA Inc Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in France www . Boots . Com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
