WARNING : DIFFERENTIATION SYNDROME AND CARDIAC CONDUCTION ABNORMALITIES Differentiation Syndrome : Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) treated with arsenic trioxide injection have experienced symptoms of differentiation syndrome , which can be fatal if not treated .
Symptoms may include fever , dyspnea , acute respiratory distress , pulmonary infiltrates , pleural or pericardial effusions , weight gain or peripheral edema , hypotension , and renal , hepatic , or multi - organ dysfunction , in the presence or absence of leukocytosis .
If differentiation syndrome is suspected , immediately initiate high - dose corticosteroid therapy and hemodynamic monitoring until resolution of signs and symptoms .
Temporary discontinuation of arsenic trioxide injection may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities : Arsenic trioxide can cause QTc interval prolongation , complete atrioventricular block , and a torsade de pointes - type ventricular arrhythmia , which can be fatal .
Before initiating therapy , assess the QTc interval , correct pre - existing electrolyte abnormalities , and consider discontinuing drugs known to prolong QTc interval .
Do not administer arsenic trioxide injection to patients with ventricular arrhythmia or prolonged QTcF [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : DIFFERENTIATION SYNDROME AND CARDIAC CONDUCTION ABNORMALITIES See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Patients treated with arsenic trioxide injection may develop differentiation syndrome , which can be fatal .
If symptoms occur , initiate high - dose steroids immediately and monitor hemodynamics .
( 5 . 1 ) • Arsenic trioxide injection can cause QT interval prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia , which can be fatal .
Before administering arsenic trioxide injection , assess the QT interval , correct electrolyte abnormalities , and consider discontinuing drugs known to prolong QT interval .
Do not administer arsenic trioxide injection to patients with ventricular arrhythmia or prolonged QTcF .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) … … … … .
… 01 / 2018 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) … … . 01 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Arsenic trioxide injection is an arsenical indicated : • For induction of remission and consolidation in patients with APL who are refractory to , or have relapsed from , retinoid and anthracycline chemotherapy , and whose APL is characterized by the presence of the t ( 15 ; 17 ) translocation or PML / RAR - alpha gene expression .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 2 Relapsed or Refractory APL Arsenic trioxide injection is indicated for induction of remission and consolidation in patients with APL who are refractory to , or have relapsed from , retinoid and anthracycline chemotherapy , and whose APL is characterized by the presence of the t ( 15 ; 17 ) translocation or PML / RAR - alpha gene expression .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Relapsed or refractory APL : • Induction : 0 . 15 mg / kg intravenously daily until bone marrow remission .
Do not exceed 60 doses for total induction .
( 2 . 2 ) • Consolidation : 0 . 15 mg / kg intravenously daily for 25 doses over a period up to 5 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Relapsed or Refractory APL A treatment course including arsenic trioxide injection monotherapy for patients with relapsed or refractory APL consists of 1 induction cycle and 1 consolidation cycle [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
• For the induction cycle , the recommended dose of arsenic trioxide injection is 0 . 15 mg / kg intravenously daily until bone marrow remission or up to a maximum of 60 days .
• For the consolidation cycle , the recommended dose of arsenic trioxide injection is 0 . 15 mg / kg intravenously daily for 25 doses over a period of up to 5 weeks .
Begin consolidation 3 to 6 weeks after completion of induction therapy .
2 . 2 Dose Modifications for Toxicities During induction therapy , monitor coagulation studies , blood counts , and chemistries at least 2 - 3 times per week through recovery .
During consolidation , monitor at least weekly .
Management of some adverse reactions may require dose interruption , dose reduction , or permanent discontinuation of arsenic trioxide injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Table 2 shows the dose modifications for toxicity due to arsenic trioxide injection when used alone .
Table 2 : Dose Adjustments for Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction ( s ) Dose Modification Differentiation syndrome , defined by the presence of 2 or more of the following : - Unexplained fever - Dyspnea - Pleural and / or pericardial effusion - Pulmonary infiltrates - Renal failure - Hypotension - Weight gain greater than 5 kg • Temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide injection .
Treat with dexamethasone 10 mg intravenously every 12 hours until the resolution of signs and symptoms for a minimum of 3 days .
• Resume treatment when the clinical condition improves and reduce the dose of the withheld drug ( s ) by 50 % .
• Increase the dose of the withheld drug ( s ) to the recommended dosage after 7 days in the absence of recurrence of symptoms of differentiation syndrome .
• If symptoms re - appear , decrease arsenic trioxide injection to the previous dose .
QTc Prolongation greater than 450 msec for men or greater than 460 msec for women : • Withhold treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and any medication known to prolong the QTc interval .
• Replete electrolytes .
• After the QTc normalizes , resume treatment with arsenic trioxide injection at a 50 % reduced dose ( 0 . 075 mg / kg once daily ) for 7 days .
• If the 50 % reduced dose is tolerated for 7 days ( in the absence of QTc prolongation ) , increase the dose of arsenic trioxide injection to 0 . 11 mg / kg once daily for 7 days .
• The dose of arsenic trioxide injection can be increased to 0 . 15 mg / kg in the absence of QTc prolongation during that 14 - day dose - escalation period .
Hepatotoxicity , defined by 1 or more of the following : - Total bilirubin ( TB ) greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) - Aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) greater than 5 times the ULN - Alkaline phosphatase ( AP ) greater than 5 times the ULN • Withhold treatment with arsenic trioxide injection .
• Resume treatment at a 50 % reduced dose of the withheld drug ( s ) when TB is less than 1 . 5 times the ULN and AP / AST are less than 3 times the ULN .
• Increase the dose of the withheld drug back to the recommended dosage after 7 days on the reduced dose in the absence of worsening of hepatotoxicity .
• Discontinue the withheld drug permanently if hepatotoxicity recurs .
Other severe or life - threatening ( grade 3 - 4 ) nonhematologic reactions • Temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide injection .
• When the adverse reaction resolves to no more than mild ( grade 1 ) , resume arsenic trioxide injection reduced by 2 dose levels ( see Table 3 below ) .
Moderate ( grade 2 ) nonhematologic reactions • Reduce the dose of arsenic trioxide injection by 1 dose level ( see Table 3 below ) .
Leukocytosis ( WBC count greater than 10 Gi / L ) • Administer hydroxyurea .
• Hydroxyurea may be discontinued when the WBC declines below 10 Gi / L .
Myelosuppression , defined by 1 or more of the following : - absolute neutrophil count less than 1 Gi / L - platelets less than 50 Gi / L lasting more than 5 weeks • Consider reducing the dose of arsenic trioxide injection by 1 dose level ( see Table 3 below ) .
• If myelosuppression lasts 50 days or occurs on 2 consecutive cycles , assess a marrow aspirate for remission status .
In the case of molecular remission , resume arsenic trioxide injection at 1 dose level lower ( see Table 3 below ) .
Table 3 : Dose Reduction Levels for Hematologic and Nonhematologic ToxicitiesDose Level Arsenic trioxide injection mg / kg intravenously once daily Starting level 0 . 15 - 1 0 . 11 - 2 0 . 10 - 3 0 . 075 2 . 3 Instructions for Preparation and Intravenous Administration Reconstitution Dilute arsenic trioxide injection with 100 to 250 mL 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , using proper aseptic technique , immediately after withdrawal from the vial .
Do not save any unused portions for later administration .
After dilution , arsenic trioxide injection is chemically and physically stable when stored for 24 hours at room temperature and 48 hours when refrigerated .
Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Administer arsenic trioxide injection intravenously over 2 hours .
The infusion duration may be extended up to 4 hours if acute vasomotor reactions are observed .
A central venous catheter is not required .
The arsenic trioxide injection vial is single - dose and does not contain any preservatives .
Unused portions of each vial should be discarded properly .
Do not mix arsenic trioxide injection with other medications .
Safe Handling Procedures Arsenic trioxide injection is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is an injectable solution for intravenous administration supplied as 10 mg / 10 mL of arsenic trioxide in single - dose vials .
Injectable solution for intravenous administration supplied as 10 mg / 10 ml of arsenic trioxide in single - dose vials .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to arsenic .
Hypersensitivity to arsenic .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor hepatic function tests at least twice weekly during arsenic trioxide injection therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • Carcinogenesis : Arsenic trioxide is a human carcinogen .
Monitor patients for the development of second primary malignancies .
( 5 . 4 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Differentiation Syndrome Differentiation syndrome , which may be life - threatening or fatal , has been observed in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) treated with arsenic trioxide injection .
In clinical trials , 16 - 23 % of patients treated with arsenic trioxide injection for APL developed differentiation syndrome .
Symptoms include unexplained fever , dyspnea , hypoxia , pulmonary infiltrates , pleural or pericardial effusion , weight gain , peripheral edema , hypotension , renal insufficiency , hepatopathy and multi - organ dysfunction .
Differentiation syndrome has been observed with and without concomitant hyperleukocytosis , and it has occurred as early as day 1 of induction to as late as the second month induction therapy .
At the first signs of differentiation syndrome , interrupt treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and administer dexamethasone 10 mg intravenously twice daily .
Continue high - dose steroids until signs and symptoms have abated for at least 3 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Patients treated with arsenic trioxide injection can develop QTc prolongation , torsade de pointes , and complete heart block .
In the clinical trial of patients with relapsed or refractory APL treated with arsenic trioxide injection monotherapy , 40 % had at least one ECG tracing with a QTc interval greater than 500 msec .
A prolonged QTc was observed between 1 and 5 weeks after start of arsenic trioxide injection infusion , and it usually resolved by 8 weeks after arsenic trioxide injection infusion .
There are no data on the effect of arsenic trioxide injection on the QTc interval during the infusion of the drug .
The risk of torsade de pointes is related to the extent of QTc prolongation , concomitant administration of QTc prolonging drugs , a history of torsade de pointes , pre - existing QTc interval prolongation , congestive heart failure , administration of potassium - wasting diuretics , or other conditions that result in hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia .
The risk may be increased when arsenic trioxide injection is coadministered with medications that can lead to electrolyte abnormalities ( such as diuretics or amphotericin B ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Prior to initiating therapy with arsenic trioxide injection , assess the QTc interval by electrocardiogram , correct pre - existing electrolyte abnormalities , and consider discontinuing drugs known to prolong QTc interval .
Do not administer arsenic trioxide injection to patients with ventricular arrhythmia or prolonged QTc .
If possible , discontinue drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval .
If it is not possible to discontinue the interacting drug , perform cardiac monitoring frequently [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
During arsenic trioxide injection therapy , maintain potassium concentrations above 4 mEq / L and magnesium concentrations above 1 . 8 mg / dL .
Monitor ECG weekly , and more frequently for clinically unstable patients .
For patients who develop a QTc greater than 500 msec , immediately withhold treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and any medication known to prolong the QTc interval .
Correct electrolyte abnormalities .
When the QTc normalizes , resume arsenic trioxide injection at a reduced dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hepatotoxicity During treatment with arsenic trioxide injection , monitor liver chemistries at least 2 - 3 times per week through recovery from toxicities .
Withhold treatment with arsenic trioxide injection if elevations in AST ) , alkaline phosphatase , and / or serum bilirubin occur to greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Long - term liver abnormalities can occur in APL patients treated with arsenic trioxide injection .
5 . 4 Carcinogenesis The active ingredient of arsenic trioxide injection , arsenic trioxide , is a human carcinogen .
Monitor patients for the development of second primary malignancies .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Arsenic trioxide injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Arsenic trioxide was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats when administered on gestation day 9 at a dose approximately 10 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m2 basis .
A related trivalent arsenic , sodium arsenite , produced teratogenicity when administered during gestation in mice at a dose approximately 5 times the projected human dose on a mg / m2 basis and in hamsters at an intravenous dose approximately equivalent to the projected human daily dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females and males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with arsenic trioxide injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling .
• Differentiation Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Carcinogenesis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( greater than 30 % ) were leukocytosis , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal pain , hepatic toxicity , fever , rigors , fatigue , insomnia , tachycardia , QTc prolongation , edema , hyperglycemia , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , dyspnea , cough , rash or itching , sore throat , arthralgia , headaches , paresthesia , and dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact STI Pharma LLC , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 301 - 9680 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been reported from clinical trials and / or worldwide postmarketing surveillance .
Because they are reported from a population of unknown size , precise estimates of frequency cannot be made .
Cardiac disorders : Ventricular extrasystoles in association with QT prolongation , and ventricular tachycardia in association with QT prolongation .
including torsade de pointes , atrioventricular block , and congestive heart failure Nervous system disorders : Peripheral neuropathy , paresis , seizures , confusion Hematologic disorders : Pancytopenia , bone marrow necrosis Infections and infestations : Herpes zoster Investigations : Gamma - glutamyltransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Bone pain , myalgia , rhabdomyolysis Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders : Differentiation syndrome , like retinoic acid syndrome , has been reported with the use of arsenic trioxide injection for the treatment of malignancies other than APL [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Ear and labyrinth disorders : Deafness Neoplasms benign , malignant and unspecified : Melanoma , pancreatic cancer , squamous cell carcinoma Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Toxic epidermal necrolysis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs That Can Prolong the QT / QTc Interval Concomitant use of these drugs and arsenic trioxide injection may increase the risk of serious QT / QTc interval prolongation .
Discontinue or replace with an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT / QTc interval while patient is using arsenic trioxide injection .
Monitor ECGs more frequently in patients when it is not feasible to avoid concomitant use .
Drugs That Can Lead to Electrolyte Abnormalities Electrolyte abnormalities increase the risk of serious QT / QTc interval prolongation .
Avoid concomitant administration of drugs that can lead to electrolyte abnormalities .
Monitor electrolytes more frequently in patients who must receive concomitant use of these drugs and arsenic trioxide injection .
Drugs That Can Lead to Hepatotoxicity Concomitant use of these drugs and arsenic trioxide injection , particularly when given in combination with tretinoin , may increase the risk of serious hepatotoxicity .
Discontinue or replace with an alternative drug that does not cause hepatotoxicity while the patient is using arsenic trioxide injection .
Monitor liver function tests more frequently in patients when it is not feasible to avoid concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Renal Impairment : Monitor patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) for toxicity when treated with arsenic trioxide injection ; dose reduction may be warranted .
( 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Monitor patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) for toxicity when treated with arsenic trioxide injection .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on the mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] and findings in animal studies , arsenic trioxide injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Arsenic trioxide was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats when administered on gestation day 9 at a dose approximately 10 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m 2 basis ( see Data ) .
A related trivalent arsenic , sodium arsenite , produced teratogenicity when administered during gestation in mice at a dose approximately 5 times the projected human dose on a mg / m 2 basis and in hamsters at an intravenous dose approximately equivalent to the projected human daily dose on a mg / m 2 basis .
There are no studies with the use of arsenic trioxide injection in pregnant women , and limited published data on arsenic trioxide use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data One patient was reported to deliver a live infant with no reported congenital anomalies after receiving arsenic trioxide during the first five months of pregnancy .
A second patient became pregnant three months after discontinuing arsenic trioxide and was reported to have a normal pregnancy outcome .
A third patient was a pregnant healthcare provider who experienced dermal contact with liquid arsenic trioxide and had a normal pregnancy outcome after treatment and monitoring .
A fourth patient who became pregnant while receiving arsenic trioxide had a miscarriage .
Animal Data Studies in pregnant mice , rats , hamsters , and primates have shown that inorganic arsenicals cross the placental barrier when given orally or by injection .
An increase in resorptions , neural - tube defects , anophthalmia and microphthalmia were observed in rats administered 10 mg / kg of arsenic trioxide on gestation day 9 ( approximately 10 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
Similar findings occurred in mice administered a 10 mg / kg dose of a related trivalent arsenic , sodium arsenite ( approximately 5 times the projected human dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) , on gestation days 6 , 7 , 8 or 9 .
Intravenous injection of 2 mg / kg sodium arsenite ( approximately equivalent to the projected human daily dose on a mg / m2 basis ) on gestation day 7 ( the lowest dose tested ) resulted in neural - tube defects in hamsters .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Arsenic trioxide is excreted in human milk .
There is no information on the effects of arsenic trioxide on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child from arsenic trioxide injection , discontinue breastfeeding during treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and for two weeks after the final dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Arsenic trioxide injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Conduct pregnancy testing in females of reproductive potential prior to initiation of treatment with arsenic trioxide injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and for six months after the final dose .
Males Advise males with female sexual partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and for three months after the final dose .
Infertility Males Based on testicular toxicities including decreased testicular weight and impaired spermatogenesis observed in animal studies , arsenic trioxide injection may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of arsenic trioxide injection as a single agent for treatment of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory APL is supported by the pivotal phase 2 study in 40 patients with relapsed or refractory APL .
Five patients below the age of 18 years ( age range : 5 to 16 years ) were treated with arsenic trioxide injection at the recommended dose of 0 . 15 mg / kg / day .
A literature review included an additional 17 patients treated with arsenic trioxide for relapsed or refractory APL , with ages ranging from 4 to 21 years .
No differences in efficacy and safety were observed by age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and efficacy of arsenic trioxide injection as a single agent in older patients with relapsed or refractory APL is supported by the pivotal phase 2 study in 40 patients with relapsed or refractory APL .
Six patients age 65 and above ( age range : 65 to 73 years ) were treated with arsenic trioxide injection at the recommended dose .
A literature review included an additional 4 patients treated with arsenic trioxide for relapsed or refractory APL with ages ranging from 69 to 72 years .
No differences in efficacy and safety were observed by age .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment Exposure of arsenic trioxide may be higher in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) should be monitored for toxicity when these patients are treated with arsenic trioxide for injection , and a dose reduction may be warranted .
The use of arsenic trioxide for injection in patients on dialysis has not been studied .
8 . 7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Since limited data are available across all hepatic impairment groups , caution is advised in the use of arsenic trioxide for injection in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) who are treated with arsenic trioxide for injection for toxicity .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Manifestations Manifestations of Arsenic Trioxide for Injection overdosage include convulsions , muscle weakness and confusion .
10 . 2 Management If symptoms of arsenic trioxide injection overdosage develop , the injection should be immediately discontinued and chelation therapy should be considered .
A conventional protocol for acute arsenic intoxication includes dimercaprol administered at a dose of 3 mg / kg intramuscularly every 4 hours until immediate life - threatening toxicity has subsided .
Thereafter , penicillamine at a dose of 250 mg orally , up to a maximum frequency of four times per day ( ≤ 1 g per day ) , may be given .
11 DESCRIPTION Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is a sterile injectable solution of arsenic trioxide .
The molecular formula of the drug substance in the solid state is As 2 O 3 , with a molecular weight of 197 . 8 and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is available in 10 mL , single - use ampules containing 10 mg of arsenic trioxide .
Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is formulated as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , clear solution of arsenic trioxide in water for injection using sodium hydroxide and dilute hydrochloric acid to adjust to pH 8 .
Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is preservative - free .
Arsenic trioxide , the active ingredient , is present at a concentration of 1 . 0 mg / mL .
Inactive ingredients and their respective approximate concentrations are sodium hydroxide ( 1 . 2 mg / mL ) and hydrochloric acid , which is used to adjust the pH to 7 . 5 - 8 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is not completely understood .
Arsenic trioxide causes morphological changes and DNA fragmentation characteristic of apoptosis in NB4 human promyelocytic leukemia cells in vitro .
Arsenic trioxide also causes damage or degradation of the fusion protein promyelocytic leukemia ( PML ) - retinoic acid receptor ( RAR ) - alpha .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology A dedicated QTc study was not performed with arsenic trioxide injection .
However , in a single arm trial of arsenic trioxide injection ( 0 . 15 mg / kg daily ) , 16 of 40 patients ( 40 % ) had a QTc interval greater than 500 msec .
Prolongation of the QTc was observed between 1 and 5 weeks after arsenic trioxide injection infusion , and then returned towards baseline by the end of 8 weeks after arsenic trioxide injection infusion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The inorganic , lyophilized form of arsenic trioxide , when placed into solution , immediately forms the hydrolysis product arsenious acid ( As III ) .
As III is the pharmacologically active species of arsenic trioxide .
Monomethylarsonic acid ( MMA V ) , and dimethylarsinic acid ( DMA V ) are the main pentavalent metabolites formed during metabolism , in addition to arsenic acid ( As V ) a product of AsIIIoxidation .
The pharmacokinetics of arsenical species ( [ As III ] , [ As V ] , [ MMA V ] , [ DMA V ] ) were determined in 6 APL patients following once - daily doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg for 5 days per week .
Over the total single - dose range of 7 to 32 mg ( administered as 0 . 15 mg / kg ) , systemic exposure ( AUC ) appears to be linear .
Peak plasma concentrations of arsenious acid ( As III ) , the primary active arsenical species were reached at the end of infusion ( 2 hours ) .
Plasma concentration of As III declined in a biphasic manner with a mean elimination half - life of 10 to 14 hours and is characterized by an initial rapid distribution phase followed by a slower terminal elimination phase .
The daily exposure to As III ( mean AUC0 - 24 ) was 194 ng · hr / mL ( n = 5 ) on Day 1 of Cycle 1 and 332 ng · hr / mL ( n = 6 ) on Day 25 of Cycle 1 , which represents an approximate 2 - fold accumulation .
The primary pentavalent metabolites , MMA Vand DMA V , are slow to appear in plasma ( approximately 10 - 24 hours after first administration of arsenic trioxide ) , but , due to their longer half - life , accumulate more upon multiple dosing than does As III .
The mean estimated terminal elimination half - lives of the metabolites MMA V and DMA V are 32 hours and 72 hours , respectively .
Approximate accumulation ranged from 1 . 4 - to 8 - fold following multiple dosing as compared to single dose administration .
AsVis present in plasma only at relatively low levels .
Distribution The volume of distribution ( V ss ) for As III is large ( mean 562 L , N = 10 ) indicating that As III is widely distributed throughout body tissues .
V ss is also dependent on body weight and increases as body weight increases .
Elimination Metabolism Much of the As III is distributed to the tissues where it is methylated to the less cytotoxic metabolites , monomethylarsonic acid ( MMA V ) and dimethylarsinic acid ( DMA V ) by methyltransferases primarily in the liver .
The metabolism of arsenic trioxide also involves oxidation of As III to As V , which may occur in numerous tissues via enzymatic or nonenzymatic processes .
As V is present in plasma only at relatively low levels following administration of arsenic trioxide .
Excretion Approximately 15 % of the administered arsenic trioxide injection dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged As III .
The methylated metabolites of As III ( MMA V , DMA V ) are primarily excreted in the urine .
The total clearance of As III is 49 L / h and the renal clearance is 9 L / h .
Clearance is not dependent on body weight or dose administered over the range of 7 - 32 mg .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of As III , As V , and the pentavalent metabolites MMA V and DMA V was evaluated in 20 patients with advanced malignancies .
Patients were classified as having normal renal function ( creatinine clearance [ CrCl ] > 80 mL / min , n = 6 ) , mild renal impairment ( CrCl 50 - 80 mL / min , n = 5 ) , moderate renal impairment ( CrCl 30 - 49 mL / min , n = 6 ) , or severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min , n = 3 ) .
Following twice weekly administration of 0 . 15 mg / kg over a 2 - hour infusion , the mean AUC 0 - ∞ for As III was comparable among the normal , mild and moderate renal impairment groups .
However , in the severe renal impairment group , the mean AUC 0 - ∞ for As III was approximately 48 % higher than that in the normal group .
Systemic exposure to MMA V and DMA V tended to be larger in patients with renal impairment ; however , the clinical consequences of this increased exposure are not known .
As V plasma levels were generally below the limit of assay quantitation in patients with impaired renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The use of arsenic trioxide in patients on dialysis has not been studied .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The effect of pharmacokinetics of As III , As V , and the pentavalent metabolites MMA V and DMA V was evaluated following administration of 0 . 25 - 0 . 50 mg / kg of arsenic trioxide in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma .
Patients were classified as having normal hepatic function ( n = 4 ) , mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A , n = 12 ) , moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class B , n = 3 ) , or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class C , n = 1 ) .
No clear trend toward an increase in systemic exposure to As III , As V , MMA V or DMA V was observed with decreasing level of hepatic function as assessed by dose - normalized ( per mg dose ) AUC in the mild and moderate hepatic impairment groups .
However , the one patient with severe hepatic impairment had mean dose - normalized AUC 0 - 24 and C max values 40 % and 70 % higher , respectively , than those patients with normal hepatic function .
The mean dose - normalized trough plasma levels for both MMAVand DMAV in this severely hepatically impaired patient were 2 . 2 - fold and 4 . 7 - fold higher , respectively , than those in the patients with normal hepatic function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients Following IV administration of 0 . 15 mg / kg / day of arsenic trioxide in 10 APL patients ( median age = 13 . 5 years , range 4 - 20 years ) , the daily exposure to As III ( mean AUC 0 - 24 h ) was 317 ng · hr / mL on Day 1 of Cycle 1 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies No formal assessments of pharmacokinetic drug - drug interactions between arsenic trioxide injection and other drugs have been conducted .
The methyltransferases responsible for metabolizing arsenic trioxide are not members of the cytochrome P450 family of isoenzymes .
In vitro incubation of arsenic trioxide with human liver microsomes showed no inhibitory activity on substrates of the major cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes such as 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , 3A4 / 5 , and 4A9 / 11 .
The pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates for these CYP enzymes are not expected to be affected by concomitant treatment with arsenic trioxide .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with arsenic trioxide injection by intravenous administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Arsenic trioxide and trivalent arsenite salts have not been demonstrated to be mutagenic to bacteria , yeast or mammalian cells .
Arsenite salts are clastogenic in vitro ( human fibroblast , human lymphocytes , Chinese hamster ovary cells , Chinese hamster V79 lung cells ) .
Trivalent arsenic was genotoxic in the chromosome aberrations assay and micronucleus bone marrow assay in mice .
The effect of arsenic on fertility has not been adequately studied in humans .
Decreased testicular weight and impaired spermatogenesis have been reported in animal studies .
Male Wistar rat pups were administered 1 . 5 mg / kg sodium arsenite solution via the intraperitoneal route from postnatal days 1 to 14 and testes were collected for evaluation on postnatal days 15 , 21 , and 50 .
Results of this study revealed an altered morphology of the seminiferous tubules along with degeneration of spermatogenic cells , increased number of sperm with abnormal morphology , and decreased sperm counts .
In beagle dogs administered intravenous arsenic trioxide for 90 days , reduced inner cell layers within seminiferous tubules and significantly decreased numbers of spermatocytes , spermatozoa , and sperm cells were observed at doses of 1 mg / kg / day and higher .
The 1 mg / kg / day dose is approximately 3 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 2 Relapsed or Refractory APL Arsenic trioxide injection has been investigated in Study PLRXAS01 , an open - label , single - arm trial in 40 relapsed or refractory APL patients , previously treated with an anthracycline and a retinoid regimen .
Patients received arsenic trioxide injection 0 . 15 mg / kg / day intravenously over 1 to 2 hours until the bone marrow was cleared of leukemic cells or up to a maximum of 60 days .
The CR ( absence of visible leukemic cells in bone marrow and peripheral recovery of platelets and white blood cells with a confirmatory bone marrow ≥ 30 days later ) rate in this population of previously treated patients was 28 of 40 ( 70 % ) .
Among the 22 patients who had relapsed less than one year after treatment with tretinoin , there were 18 complete responders ( 82 % ) .
Of the 18 patients receiving arsenic trioxide injection ≥ one year from tretinoin treatment , there were 10 complete responders ( 55 % ) .
The median time to bone marrow remission was 44 days and to onset of CR was 53 days .
Three of 5 children , 5 years or older , achieved CR .
No children less than 5 years old were treated .
Three to six weeks following bone marrow remission , 31 patients received consolidation therapy with arsenic trioxide injection , at the same dose , for 25 additional days over a period up to 5 weeks .
In follow - up treatment , 18 patients received further arsenic trioxide injection as a maintenance course .
Fifteen patients had bone marrow transplants .
At last follow - up , 27 of 40 patients were alive with a median follow - up time of 484 days ( range 280 to 755 ) and 23 of 40 patients remained in complete response with a median follow - up time of 483 days ( range 280 to 755 ) .
Cytogenetic conversion to no detection of the APL chromosome rearrangement was observed in 24 of 28 ( 86 % ) patients who met the response criteria defined above , in 5 of 5 ( 100 % ) patients who met some , but not all , of the response criteria , and 3 of 7 ( 43 % ) of patients who did not respond .
RT - PCR conversions to no detection of the APL gene rearrangement were demonstrated in 22 of 28 ( 79 % ) of patients who met the response criteria , in 3 of 5 ( 60 % ) of patients who met some , but not all , of the response criteria , and in 2 of 7 ( 29 % ) of patients who did not respond .
Responses were seen across all age groups tested , ranging from 6 to 72 years .
The ability to achieve a CR was similar for both genders .
There were insufficient patients of Black , Hispanic , or Asian derivation to estimate relative response rates in these groups , but responses were seen in members of each group .
15 REFERENCES • “ Hazardous Drugs ” , OSHA .
[ Accessed on February 12 , 2015 from http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Arsenic Trioxide for injection is supplied as a sterile , clear , odorless solution in 10 mL glass , single - dose vials .
NDC 54879 - 027 - 10 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) vials in a bundle of ten vials .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30ºC ( 59 - 86ºF ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Do not freeze .
Arsenic Trioxide for Injection is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Differentiation Syndrome Advise patients that symptoms of APL differentiation syndrome include fever , sudden weight gain , dizziness / lightheadedness , labored breathing , and accumulation of fluid in the lungs , heart , and chest .
This syndrome is managed by immediate treatment with high dose corticosteroids .
Advise patients to immediately report any of these symptoms .
• ECG Abnormalities – QT Prolongation Advise patients that arsenic trioxide injection may cause ECG abnormalities , including QT prolongation .
QT prolongation is an increase in the time it takes the heart to relax between beats .
If extreme , this prolongation has the potential to cause fainting , irregular heartbeat , or more serious side effects .
Advise patients to immediately report any of these symptoms .
Advise patients to provide a complete list of current medications as caution should be taken when arsenic trioxide injection is coadministered with other medications that can cause QT prolongation or lead to electrolyte abnormalities .
• Other Side Effects Advise patients of the expected adverse reactions of arsenic trioxide injection .
Most patients in clinical trials experienced some drug - related toxicity , most commonly leukocytosis , gastrointestinal symptoms ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal pain ) , fatigue , edema , hyperglycemia , dyspnea , cough , rash or itching , headaches , and dizziness .
These adverse reactions have not been observed to be permanent or irreversible , nor do they usually require interruption of therapy .
Advise patients to call their physician at the onset of any treatment related adverse reactions .
• Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to inform their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 5 and Use in Specific Populations 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females and males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with arsenic trioxide injection .
Advise females to use effective contraception for six months and males to use effective contraception for three months after completing treatment with arsenic trioxide injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Potential Effect on Male Fertility Advise male patients of the potential risk to future fertility following treatment with arsenic trioxide injection , as decreased testicular weight and impaired spermatogenesis have been reported in animal studies • Lactation Advise females to discontinue breastfeeding during treatment with arsenic trioxide injection and for two weeks after treatment with arsenic trioxide injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Rx only Manufactured for STI Pharma LLC Newtown , PA 18940 Made in USA Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
