Rx Only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION : Betamethasone Valerate Lotion contains betamethasone valerate USP , a synthetic adrenocortico - steroid for dermatologic use .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone valerate is a white to practically white odorless crystalline powder practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in acetone and chloroform , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in benzene and ether .
Chemically , it is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - valerate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of the 0 . 1 % Lotion contains 1 . 2 mg of betamethasone valerate ( equivalent to 1 mg betamethasone ) in a vehicle of isopropyl alcohol and water slightly thickened with carbomer 934 P .
Phosphoric acid or sodium hydroxide is used to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of cortico - steroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( See PRECAUTIONS — Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressings .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing .
Laboratory tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects — Pregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a few drops of Betamethasone Valerate Lotion to the affected area and massage lightly until it disappears .
Apply twice daily , in the morning and at night .
Dosage may be increased in stubborn cases .
Following improvement , apply once daily .
For the most effective and economical use , apply nozzle very close to affected area and gently squeeze bottle .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone Valerate Lotion USP , 0 . 1 % is supplied as follows : 60 ml bottles NDC 54879 - 004 - 60 Shake well before using .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact STI Pharma , LLC at 1 - 888 - 301 - 9680 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or ww . fda . gov / medwatch Manufactured for : STI Pharma LLC Newtown , PA 18940 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 ML CONTAINER NDC 54879 - 004 - 60 STI Pharma LLC BETAMETHASONE VALERATE LOTION USP , 0 . 1 % ( Potency expressed as betamethasone ) 60 ml FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only STI Pharma LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 ML CARTON NDC 54879 - 004 - 60 STI Pharma LLC BETAMETHASONE VALERATE LOTION USP , 0 . 1 % ( Potency expressed as betamethasone ) 60 ml FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT OPHTHALMIC USE Each gram contains 1 . 2 mg betamethasone valerate ( equivalent to 1 mg betamethasone ) in a vehicle of isopropyl alcohol and water slightly thickened with carbomer 934 P .
Phosphoric acid or sodium hydroxide is used to adjust pH . Rx only STI Pharma LLC
