Isopropyl alcohol 72 . 5 % w / w Povidone - iodine 8 . 3 % w / w ( 0 . 83 % available iodine ) Antiseptic Antiseptic for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery .
Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
T o reduce risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • do not use 26 - mL applicator for head and neck surgery • solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors .
• avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
Wet hair is flammable .
• do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) • do not allow the solution to pool • remove wet materials from prep area Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age because of the potential for excessive skin irritation and increased drug absorption .
Daily use of iodine on newborn infants may increase blood iodine level .
• on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser • in the eyes or for prepping mucous membranes • on iodine sensitive patients When using this product • use in well ventilated area .
• use with caution in women who are breast - feeding due to the potential for transient hypothyroidism in the nursing newborn Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These maybe signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • use in a well ventilated area • do not allow solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution , and then remove • remove applicator from package ; do not touch sponge • hold the applicator with the sponge down .
Pinch wings only once to activate the ampules and release the antiseptic .
• wet the sponge by pressing and releasing the sponge against the treatment area until liquid is visible on the skin • completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic • dry surgical sites ( e . g . , abdomen or arm ) : use repeated back - and - forth strokes for 30 seconds • moist surgical sites ( e . g . , inguinal fold ) : use repeated back - and - forth strokes for 2 minutes • allow the solution to completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) .
Do not blot or wipe away .
• discard prepping materials , including solution soaked materials .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available Directions use in a well ventilated area do not allow solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution and then remove remove aplicator from package ; do not touch sponge hold the applicator with the sponge down .
Pinch wing only once to activate the ampules and release the antiseptic .
wet the sponge by pressing and releasing the sponge against the treatment area until liquid is visible on the skin completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic dry surgical sites ( e . g . abdomen or arm ) : use repeated back - and - forth strokes for 30 seconds moist surgical sites ( e . g . , inguinal fold ) : use repeated bac - and - forth strokes for 2 minutes allow the solution to completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) .
Do not blot or wipe away .
discard prepping materials , including solution soaked materials .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available .
• store between 15 - 30 o C ( 59 - 86 o F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 o C ( 104 o F ) Acrylates Copolymer , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Aminomethyl Propanol , Polyethylene Glycol , USP Purified Water Questions ?
call 1 - 800 - 523 - 0502 ( M - F 8 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
