Active ingredient Povidone - iodine , USP 7 . 5 % ( 0 . 75 % available iodine ) Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Surgical Hand Scrub : Significantly reduces the number of micro - organisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care .
• Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation : for preparation of skin prior to surgery . Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
• Antiseptic Handwash : for hand washing to reduce bacteria on skin Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • on persons allergic to iodine Stop use and ask a doctor if • skin shows symptoms of irritation , sensitivity , redness , pain or swelling .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours consult a doctor .
• In case of deep puncture wounds or serious burns .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Surgical hand scrub : clean under nails with a nail pick .
Nails should be maintained with a 1 millimeter free edge ; wet hands and forearms ; scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 ml of scrub and a wet brush ; pay particular attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces ; rinse and repeat • Patient Preoperative Prep : clean the area ; apply solution saturated sponge ; starting at the surgical site moving outward in concentric circles for a minimum of 5 minutes ; blot with sterile towel ; follow with application of topical solution • Antiseptic Handwash : wet hands and forearms ; apply ample amount of solution to wet hands : wash in vigorous manner for 15 seconds ; rinse and repeat Other information • store at room temperature • avoid excessive heat ( above 104 ° F / 40 ° C ) • protect from freezing • latex free Inactive ingredients alkyl polyglucoside , citric acid , nonylphenol ethoxylate , purified water , sodium hydroxide Questions ?
Call : 1 - 800 - 523 - 0502 Mon . - Fri .
8 AM - 5 PM CST Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDA 50425 - 010 - 98 Cat .
29904 - 004 Scrub Care ® 7 . 5 % Povidone - iodine , Scrub Antiseptic Non - sterile Solution 7 . 5 % Povidone - iodine , USP For preparation of skin prior to surgery .
Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
For Single Use Only Manufactured for CareFusion Vernon Hills , IL 60061 USA 51 - 10108 Net Contents : 4 fl .
oz .
( 118 ml ) CareFusion [ MULTIMEDIA ]
