Active Ingredient Minoxidil 2 % w / v ..........................................................................................................
Hair regrowth treatment Use To regrow hair on the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of carton ) Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if : • Your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton , because this product may not work for you • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • Your hair loss is associated with childbirth • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children • Your scalp is red , inflamed , irritated or painful • You use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have : • Heart Disease When using this product : • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water • Some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • It takes time to regrow hair .
You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results • The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for everyone Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • Your hands or feet swell • Scalp irritation or redness occurs • Unwanted facial hair growth occurs • You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other Information : • See hair loss pictures on side of this carton • Before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • Keep the carton .
It contains important information • In clinical studies of mostly white women aged 18 - 49 years wiht mild to moderate degrees of hair loss , the following response to 2 % minoxidil topical solution was reported : 19 % of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using 2 % minoxidil topical solution for 8 months ( 19 % had moderate regrowth ; 40 % had minimal regrowth ) .
This compares with 7 % of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using placebo , the liquid without minoxidil in it for 8 months ( 7 % had moderate regrowth , 33 % had minimal regrowth ) • Store at controlled room temperature 20 o to 25 o C ( 68 o to 77 o F ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Directions : • Apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • Using more or more often will not improve results • Continued use is necessary to increase and keep you hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
