Active ingredients Camphor 8 . 3 % Menthol 3 . 32 % Methyl salicylate 13 . 84 % Purpose External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions Do not use ■ on irritated or damaged skin ■ on wounds ■ otherwise than as directed When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes ■ do not bandage tightly ■ avoid placing on extremely hairy areas of skin to avoid irritation upon removing the plaster Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ when using for pain of arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ adults and children 3 years of age and older : remove the attached film from the plaster .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily ■ children under 3 years of age : consult your physician ■ refer to the above warnings ; use otherwise than as directed may be dangerous Other information ■ keep in a tightly closed container ■ store at 15º to 30º C ( 59º to 86º F ) Inactive ingredients African basil ( Ocimum gratissimum L ) herb oil , cinnamon oil , fang feng root , Formosan sweet gum ( Liquidambar formosana Hance ) Resin , fragrant angelica root extract , greater galangal root extract , ginger root extract , huo xue dan [ Glechoma longituba ( Nakai ) Kuprian ] aerial part , natural latex rubber , nux vomica ( Strychnos nux - vomica L ) seed , rosin , safflower flower , and schizonepeta ( Schizonepeta tenuifolia Briq . )
flowering aerial part on a cotton pad .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm ■ you may also report serious side effects to this phone number EXTERNAL ANALGESIC NDC 61821 - 052 - 01 DIEDA FENGSHI GAO MEDICATED PLASTER 5 Plasters per Carton Each Plaster 7x10 cm ( 2 . 76 x 3 . 94 in ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
