1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CERVIDIL is indicated for the initiation and / or continuation of cervical ripening in pregnant women at or near term in whom there is a medical or obstetrical indication for the induction of labor .
CERVIDIL is a prostaglandin analog indicated for the initiation and / or continuation of cervical ripening in pregnant women at or near term in whom there is a medical or obstetrical indication for the induction of labor .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer a single vaginal insert ( 10 mg ) for up to 12 hours of use ( approximately 0 . 3 mg of dinoprostone is released per hour ) ( 2 . 1 ) • Remove upon onset of active labor or 12 hours after insertion .
( 2 . 1 ) • Carefully monitor for uterine activity , fetal status and the progression of cervical dilatation and effacement .
( 2 . 1 ) • CERVIDIL should be administered only by trained obstetrical personnel in a hospital setting with appropriate obstetrical care facilities ( 2 . 2 ) .
• See full prescribing information for complete preparation , administration , and removal instructions .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Instructions Administer one CERVIDIL insert ( 10 mg ) intravaginally for use up to 12 hours ( approximately 0 . 3 mg of dinoprostone is released per hour ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor uterine activity , fetal status , and the progression of cervical dilatation and effacement with the use of CERVIDIL .
Remove CERVIDIL 12 hours after insertion with the onset of active labor , prior to an amniotomy , occurrence of uterine tachysystole , uterine hypersystole / hypertonicity , or fetal distress [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Remove CERVIDIL at least 30 minutes prior to administering an oxytocic agent [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions CERVIDIL should be administered only by trained obstetrical personnel in a hospital setting with appropriate obstetrical care facilities .
Preparation and Administration Instructions • Keep CERVIDIL frozen until ready for use .
Do not warm CERVIDIL prior to vaginal insertion .
• Tear open the individually - wrapped foil package containing CERVIDIL along the tear mark .
Never open the package using scissors or other sharp objects because this may damage the knitted polyester retrieval system .
Do not cut the retrieval system and do not use CERVIDIL unless its retrieval system is intact .
• Immediately after opening the package , insert CERVIDIL transversely , in the posterior fornix of the vagina ( see Figure 1 ) .
If necessary , use a minimal amount of water - miscible lubricant to assist vaginal insertion .
Do not permit excess contact or coating with the lubricant , as this could prevent release of dinoprostone from the vaginal insert .
Insertion does not require sterile conditions .
Figure 1 : Placement of CERVIDIL in the Posterior Vaginal Fornix [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Tuck some of the excess retrieval system into the vagina to avoid movement of CERVIDIL away from the proper position ; however , leave a small amount of the retrieval system outside the vagina to aid in retrieval .
• Instruct women to remain in a recumbent position during insertion of CERVIDIL and for 2 hours afterward .
Women may be ambulatory 2 hours after insertion ; however , ensure that the insert remains in place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Removal Instructions • To retrieve , locate the retrieval system and pull it gently until CERVIDIL is fully removed .
• Upon removal of CERVIDIL , it is essential to perform a visual inspection to ensure that the slab has been removed , as it will continue delivering the active ingredient .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Vaginal Insert : 10 mg of dinoprostone ( release rate approximately 0 . 3 mg / hour up to 12 hours ) in a hydrogel polymer .
The insert is beige - colored , semi - opaque , thin , flat , and rectangular in shape with rounded corners , measuring 29 mm by 9 . 5 mm by 0 . 8 mm , contained within an off - white knitted polyester pouch retrieval system ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 : CERVIDIL Components [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vaginal Insert : 10 mg of dinoprostone contained within a knitted polyester pouch retrieval system .
( 3 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CERVIDIL is contraindicated in patients with : • Known hypersensitivity to prostaglandins [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] • Evidence or clinical suspicion of fetal distress where delivery is not imminent • Unexplained vaginal bleeding in the current pregnancy • Evidence or clinical suspicion of marked cephalopelvic disproportion • Conditions for which induction of labor is contraindicated • Conditions for which oxytocic drugs are contraindicated • Previous cesarean section or other uterine surgery expected to affect uterine integrity ( such as myomectomy ) • Conditions under which prolonged contraction of the uterus may be detrimental to fetal safety • Concurrent use with intravenous oxytocic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] • Six or more previous term pregnancies CERVIDIL is contraindicated for : • Known hypersensitivity to prostaglandins ( 4 ) • Evidence or clinical suspicion of fetal distress , where delivery is not imminent ( 4 ) • Unexplained vaginal bleeding in the current pregnancy ( 4 ) • Evidence or clinical suspicion of marked cephalopelvic disproportion ( 4 ) • Contraindication to induction of labor ( 4 ) • Concurrent use with intravenous oxytocic agents ( 4 ) • History of previous cesarean section or other uterine surgery ( such as myomectomy ) ( 4 ) • Conditions under which prolonged contraction of the uterus may be detrimental to fetal safety .
( 4 ) • Six or more previous term pregnancies ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation : Assess for evolving fibrinolysis in the immediate post - partum period .
( 5 . 2 ) • Amniotic Fluid Embolism Syndrome : Carefully monitor patients for clinical signs of hypotension , hypoxemia and respiratory failure , DIC , coma or seizures .
Provide supportive care .
( 5 . 3 ) • Uterine Tachysystole and Uterine Hypersystole / Hypertonicity : Monitor uterine activity ; remove vaginal insert .
( 5 . 4 ) • History of Glaucoma : Consider non - prostaglandin cervical ripening procedures .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 For Hospital Use Only CERVIDIL should be administered in a hospital setting with an obstetrical care facility .
5 . 2 Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation CERVIDIL should be used with caution in women at high risk of postpartum disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) .
Physiologic or pharmacologic induction of labor , including the use of CERVIDIL , is associated with an increased risk of DIC during the postpartum period .
Women aged 30 years or older , those with complications during pregnancy and those with a gestational age over 40 weeks have an increased risk of DIC during the postpartum period .
As soon as possible , assess for an evolving fibrinolysis in the immediate post - partum period .
Therapy consisting of prompt removal of the source of procoagulant material , replacement of depleted clotting factors and , in some cases , anti - coagulation with heparin should be instituted promptly .
5 . 3 Amniotic Fluid Embolism Syndrome The use of dinoprostone - containing products , including CERVIDIL , can result in inadvertent disruption and subsequent embolization of antigenic tissue causing the development of Amniotic Fluid Embolism Syndrome , a rare and often fatal obstetric condition .
Carefully monitor patients for clinical signs of Amniotic Fluid Embolism Syndrome including hypotension , hypoxemia and respiratory failure , DIC , coma or seizures and provide supportive care as needed .
5 . 4 Uterine Tachysystole and Uterine Hypersystole / Hypertonicity The use of CERVIDIL may cause uterine tachysystole with or without fetal heart rate changes ( see Table 1 ) .
While using CERVIDIL , carefully monitor uterine activity , fetal status and the progression of cervical dilatation and effacement .
Remove CERVIDIL with any evidence of uterine tachysystole , uterine hypersystole / hypertonicity , fetal distress , or if labor commences .
CERVIDIL is contraindicated when prolonged contraction of the uterus is detrimental to fetal safety or uterine integrity , such as previous cesarean section or major uterine surgery , because of the risk of uterine rupture and obstetrical complications ( e . g . , need for hysterectomy and the occurrence of fetal or neonatal death ) .
Prostaglandins , including CERVIDIL , may potentiate the effect of oxytocin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Remove CERVIDIL at least 30 minutes before administration of an oxytocic agent is initiated and continue to carefully monitor uterine activity .
Remove CERVIDIL prior to amniotomy or following rupture of membranes because the higher vaginal pH that occurs with rupture of membranes may result in higher release rate of dinoprostone .
5 . 5 Glaucoma Prostaglandins , including CERVIDIL , can lead to raised intraocular pressure and constriction of pupils .
Consider non - prostaglandin cervical ripening procedures in patients with Glaucoma .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : • Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Amniotic Fluid Embolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Uterine Tachysytole and Uterine Hypersystole / Hypertonicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) are uterine tachysystole without fetal distress , uterine tachysystole with fetal distress , and fetal distress without uterine tachysystole .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS , INC . at 1 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In placebo - controlled trials of 658 pregnant women ( 320 CERVIDIL - treated women and 338 placebo - treated women ) , the following treatment related adverse reactions ( see Table 1 ) occurred at an incidence greater than 2 % ( and greater than that reported in the placebo group ) in the CERVIDIL group [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Table 1 .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in Pregnant Patients Near Term Gestation in Trial 1 [ 1 ] , Trial 2 null , and Trial 3 [ 2 ] Trials 1 null and 2 null CERVIDIL ( N = 320 ) Placebo ( N = 338 ) Uterine tachysystole with fetal distress 2 . 8 % 0 . 3 % Uterine tachysystole without fetal distress 4 . 7 % 0 % Fetal distress without uterine tachysystole - 3 . 8 % 1 . 2 % Trial 3 null CERVIDIL ( N = 102 ) Placebo ( N = 104 ) Uterine tachysystole with fetal distress 2 . 9 % 0 % Uterine tachysystole - without fetal distress 2 % 0 % Fetal distress without uterine tachysystole 2 . 9 % 1 % [ 1 ] Trial 1 ( 101 - 103 ) and Trial 2 ( 101 - 003 ) evaluated the dinoprostone insert only , without the use of a retrieval system [ 2 ] Trial 3 ( 101 - 801 ) evaluated the dinoprostone insert with the retrieval system .
Drug related fever , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal pain occurred in less than 1 % of CERVIDIL - treated patients .
In Trial 3 ( with the retrieval system ) cases of tachysystole uterine hyperstimulation reversed within 2 to 13 minutes of removal of CERVIDIL .
Tocolytics were required in one of the five cases .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of CERVIDIL or other dinoprostone products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation Cardiovascular disorders : Myocardial Infarction in women with a history of myocardial infarction Immune system disorders : Hypersensitivity Nervous system disorders : Headache Pregnancy , puerperium and perinatal conditions : Amniotic fluid embolism Reproductive system : reports of uterine rupture have been reported in association with use of CERVIDIL .
Some required a hysterectomy and others resulted in subsequent fetal or neonatal death .
Uterine hypertonus Vascular disorders : Hypotension 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oxytocic Agents : May augment the activity of oxytocic agents ; concomitant use of intravenous oxytocic agents is contraindicated ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) .
Remove vaginal insert at least 30 minutes before administering an oxytocic agent .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Oxytocic Agents CERVIDIL is contraindicated in patients receiving intravenous oxytocic agents because CERVIDIL may augment the activity of oxytocic agents .
A dosing interval of at least 30 minutes is recommended for the sequential use of an oxytocic agent following the removal of CERVIDIL .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary CERVIDIL is indicated for the initiation and / or continuation of cervical ripening in pregnant women at or near term in whom there is a medical or obstetrical indication for the induction of labor .
Fetal , neonatal , and maternal risks are discussed throughout the labeling .
Limited available data with CERVIDIL use in pregnant women do not show a clear association with adverse developmental outcomes .
Relevant animal reproduction data with dinoprostone is not available .
Data Human Data In a report of a 3 - year pediatric follow - up study , there were no deleterious effects noted on physical examination or psychomotor evaluation of 51 infants born following maternal treatment with CERVIDIL .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions When CERVIDIL was removed for fetal distress , there was a return to normal rhythm and there were no neonatal sequelae .
Remove CERVIDIL in the event of persistent tachysystole with or without fetal heart rate changes , and follow established institutional protocols in management of patients .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Concomitant administration of CERVIDIL is not indicated in breastfeeding women .
There is no information on the effects of maternal CERVIDIL administration on the breastfed child .
Insufficient information is available on the effects of maternal CERVIDIL administration on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of CERVIDIL have not been established in pregnant girls .
11 DESCRIPTION CERVIDIL ( dinoprostone ) vaginal insert contains dinoprostone , a prostaglandin analog .
Each vaginal insert contains 10 mg of dinoprostone in 241 mg of a cross - linked polyethylene oxide / urethane polymer ( hydrogel polymer ) that is semi - opaque , beige colored , flat , rectangular in shape with rounded corners and measuring 29 mm by 9 . 5 mm by 0 . 8 mm .
The vaginal insert is contained within a pouch of an off - white knitted polyester yarn retrieval system .
When placed in a moist environment , the yarn absorbs water , swells , and releases the enclosed dinoprostone .
The knitted polyester retrieval system has a long tape - like end that is designed to aid retrieval of CERVIDIL at the end of the dosing interval or earlier if clinically indicated .
The finished product is a controlled - release formulation that has been found to release dinoprostone in vivo at a rate of approximately 0 . 3 mg per hour .
The chemical name for dinoprostone ( known as prostaglandin E2 or PGE2 ) is 11α , 15 S - dihydroxy - 9 - oxo - prosta - 5 Z , 13 E - dien - 1 - oic acid and the structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C20H32O5 and its molecular weight is 352 . 47 .
Dinoprostone occurs as a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It has a melting point within the range of 65 ° to 69 ° C . Dinoprostone is soluble in ethanol and in 25 % ethanol in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dinoprostone is found in low concentrations in most tissues of the body and functions as a local hormone .
In pregnancy , dinoprostone is secreted continuously by the fetal membranes and placenta and plays an important role in the final events leading to the initiation of labor including cervical ripening .
Dinoprostone stimulates the production of prostaglandin F2α ( PGF2α ) , which sensitizes the myometrium to endogenous or exogenously administered oxytocin .
Available evidence indicates that dinoprostone , in the concentrations found during the early part of labor , plays an important role in cervical ripening without affecting uterine contractions .
In most patients , local effects of CERVIDIL on the cervix include changes in the tissue consistency , dilatation and effacement .
Some women experience systemic effects , including uterine tachysystole , and uterine hypersystole / hypertonicity , as a result dinoprostone or PGF2α mediated sensitization of the myometrium to oxytocin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with CERVIDIL .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The delivery rate of dinoprostone from CERVIDIL in vivo is approximately 0 . 3 mg / per hour over a period of 12 hours .
Dinoprostone is metabolized in the tissues of synthesis with the half - life estimated to be 2 . 5 to 5 minutes .
The rate limiting step for inactivation is regulated by the enzyme 15 - hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase ( PGDH ) .
Any dinoprostone that escapes local inactivation is cleared to the extent of 95 % on the first pass through the pulmonary circulation .
No correlation could be established between the release of dinoprostone from CERVIDIL and plasma concentrations of metabolite of dinoprostone ( PGEm ) .
The relative contributions of endogenously and exogenously released dinoprostone to the plasma levels of the metabolite PGEm is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity and fertility studies have not been conducted with dinoprostone .
No evidence of mutagenicity has been observed with dinoprostone in the Unscheduled DNA Synthesis Assay , the Micronucleus Test , or the bacteria reverse mutation ( Ames ) test .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness and safety of CERVIDIL for the induction of cervical ripening was evaluated in 658 pregnant women ( 320 CERVIDIL - treated women and 338 placebo - treated women ) at or near term in three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials ( Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Efficacy outcomes included percentage with treatment success ( defined as vaginal delivery within 12 hours , Bishop Score ≥ 6 in the 12 - hour observation period , or ≥ 3 increase in the Bishop score in the 12 - hour observation period ) , time to delivery , and time to onset of labor .
Table 2 presents efficacy outcomes from Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 .
Table 2 : Efficacy Outcomes in Pregnant Women in Trials 1 [ 1 ] , 2 , null and 3 [ 2 ] for CERVIDIL Ripening , Intent - to - Treat Population Primipara / Nullipara Multipara Study # CERVIDIL Placebo CERVIDIL Placebo P - Value Treatment Success [ 3 ] Trial 1 ( N = 81 ) 65 % ( n = 26 ) 28 % ( n = 32 ) 87 % ( n = 16 ) 29 % ( n = 7 ) < 0 . 001 Trial 2 ( N = 371 ) 68 % ( n = 111 ) 24 % ( n = 123 ) 77 % ( n = 65 ) 24 % ( n = 72 ) < 0 . 001 Trial 3 ( N = 206 ) 72 % ( n = 60 ) 48 % ( n = 63 ) 55 % ( n = 42 ) 41 % ( n = 41 ) 0 . 003 Median Time to Delivery ( hours ) Trial 1 ( N = 81 ) 25 . 7 ( n = 26 ) 34 . 5 ( n = 32 ) 12 . 3 ( n = 16 ) 24 . 6 ( n = 7 ) 0 . 001 Trial 3 ( N = 206 ) 25 . 5 ( n = 60 ) 37 . 2 ( n = 63 ) 20 . 8 ( n = 42 ) 27 . 4 ( n = 41 ) < 0 . 001 Median Time to Onset of Labor ( hours ) Trial 1 ( N = 81 ) 12 ( n = 26 ) 19 . 2 ( n = 32 ) 6 . 9 ( n = 16 ) 18 . 3 ( n = 7 ) < 0 . 001 [ 1 ] Trial 1 and Trial 2 evaluated the dinoprostone insert only , without the use of a retrieval system .
[ 2 ] Trial 3 evaluated the dinoprostone insert with the retrieval system [ 3 ] Treatment success was defined as vaginal delivery within 12 hours , Bishop score ≥ 6 in the 12 - hour observation period , or ≥ 3 increase in the Bishop score in the 12 - hour observation period .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied CERVIDIL vaginal insert contains 10 mg dinoprostone in a hydrogel polymer ( NDC 55566 - 2800 - 1 ) .
The vaginal insert is beige - colored , semi - opaque , thin , flat , and rectangular in shape with rounded corners , measuring 29 mm by 9 . 5 mm by 0 . 8 mm , and is contained within an off - white knitted polyester pouch retrieval system .
CERVIDIL is enclosed in an aluminum / polyethylene pack .
Storage and Handling Store in a freezer between - 20 ° C and - 10 ° C ( - 4 ° F and 14 ° F ) .
CERVIDIL , enclosed in its aluminum / polyethylene pack , is stable when stored in a freezer for a period of three years .
Vaginal inserts exposed to high humidity will absorb moisture from the air and thereby alter the release characteristics of dinoprostone .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration Advise the woman to remain in the recumbent position for 2 hours following CERVIDIL insertion and to inform her health care provider immediately if CERVIDIL does not remain in place [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation Inform women that the use of CERVIDIL is associated with an increased risk of disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) during the postpartum period [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Amniotic Fluid Embolism Syndrome Inform women that the use of CERVIDIL can result in inadvertent disruption and subsequent embolization of antigenic tissue causing the development of Amniotic Fluid Embolism Syndrome , a rare and often fatal obstetric condition [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Frequent or Prolonged Uterine Contractions Inform women that the use of CERVIDIL may cause frequent or prolonged contractions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
This might result in disruption of blood flow through the placenta and to the fetus .
Glaucoma Inform women that CERVIDIL can lead to raised intraocular pressure and constriction of pupils [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Ferring Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Pouch Carton NDC 55566 - 2800 - 1 Cervidil ® DINOPROSTONE 10 mg VAGINAL INSERT Contains : One Cervidil ® Vaginal Insert containing 10 mg Dinoprostone in 241 mg hydrogel polymer ( cross - linked polyethylene oxide / urethane ) with polyester retrieval system .
Store in a freezer : between - 20 ° C and - 10 ° C ( - 4 ° F and 14 ° F ) FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
