For External Use Only Shake Well Before Use Rx Only APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS Keep tightly capped .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
Product may damage jewelry ; remove jewelry before use .
For treatment of dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp : 1 .
Massage about 1 or 2 teaspoonsful of suspension into wet scalp .
2 .
Allow to remain on scalp for 2 to 3 minutes .
3 .
Rinse scalp thoroughly .
4 .
Repeat application and rinse thoroughly .
5 .
After treatment , wash hands well .
6 .
Repeat treatments as directed by physician .
For treatment of tinea versicolor : 1 .
Apply to affected areas and lather with a small amount of water .
2 .
Allow to remain on skin for 10 minutes .
3 .
Rinse body thoroughly .
4 .
Repeat this procedure once a day for seven days .
DESCRIPTION A liquid antiseborrheic , antifungal preparation for topical application .
Selenium sulfide has the molecular formula SeS2 and has a molecular weight of 143 . 09 .
CONTAINS : Selenium sulfide 2 . 5 % ; bentonite , citric acid , cocoamphocarboxyglycinate , ethylene glycol monostearate , fragrance , glycerol monoricinoleate , lauramide DEA , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium phosphate ( monobasic ) , titanium dioxide , and water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Selenium sulfide appears to have a cytostatic effect on cells of the epidermis and follicular epithelium , thus reducing corneocyte production .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of tinea versicolor , seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , and dandruff .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be used by patients allergic to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General - Should not be used when acute inflammation or exudation is present as increased absorption may occur .
Information for Patients - Application to skin or scalp may produce skin irritation or sensitization .
If sensitivity reactions occur , use should be discontinued .
May be irritating to mucous membranes of the eyes and contact with this area should be avoided .
When applied to the body for treatment of tinea versicolor , Selenium Sulfide Topical Suspension USP , 2 . 5 % ( Lotion ) may produce skin irritation especially in the genital area and where skin folds occur .
These areas should be thoroughly rinsed after application .
Carcinogenesis - Studies in mice using dermal application of 25 % and 50 % solutions of 2 . 5 % selenium sulfide topical suspension , over an 88 week period , indicated no carcinogenic effects .
Pregnancy - WHEN USED ON BODY SURFACES FOR THE TREATMENT OF TINEA VERSICOLOR , SELENIUM SULFIDE IS CLASSIFIED AS PREGNANCY CATEGORY " C " .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Selenium Sulfide Topical Suspension USP , 2 . 5 % ( Lotion ) .
It is also not known whether Selenium Sulfide Topical Suspension USP , 2 . 5 % ( Lotion ) can cause fetal harm when applied to body surfaces of a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Under ordinary circumstances Selenium Sulfide Topical Suspension USP , 2 . 5 % ( Lotion ) should not be used for the treatment of tinea versicolor in pregnant women .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in infants have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In decreasing order of severity : skin irritation , occasional reports of increase in amount of normal hair loss , discoloration of hair ( can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment ) .
As with other shampoos , oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur .
OVERDOSAGE Accidental Oral Ingestion Selenium Sulfide Topical Suspension USP , 2 . 5 % ( Lotion ) is intended for external use only .
There have been no documented reports of serious toxicity in humans resulting from acute ingestion of Selenium Sulfide Topical Suspension USP , 2 . 5 % ( Lotion ) ; however , acute toxicity studies in animals suggest that ingestion of large amounts could result in potential human toxicity .
For this reason , evacuation of the stomach contents should be considered in cases of acute oral ingestion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See application instructions on rear panel of this bottle .
For treatment of dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis : For the usual case , two applications each week for two weeks will afford control .
After this , the suspension may be used at less frequent intervals - weekly , every two weeks , or even every 3 or 4 weeks in some cases .
The preparation should not be applied more frequently than required to maintain control .
For treatment of tinea versicolor : Apply to affected areas and lather with a small amount of water .
Allow product to remain on skin for 10 minutes , then rinse the body thoroughly .
Repeat this procedure once a day for seven days .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 0242 NDC : 50090 - 0242 - 0 118 mL in a BOTTLE Manufactured By Perrigo , Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 Rev 01 - 17 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS : For External Use Only .
Do not use on broken skin or inflamed areas .
If allergic reactions occur , discontinue use .
Avoid getting shampoo in eyes or in contact with genital area as it may cause irritation and burning .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
For lot number and expiration date see label or bottom of container .
Manufactured By Perrigo , Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo , Allegan , MI 49010 www . perrigo . com Rev 01 - 17 : 2J526 RC B5 SELENIUM SULFIDE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
