DESCRIPTION The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
Fluocinolone Acetonide is included in this class of synthetic corticosteroids .
Chemically Fluocinolone Acetonide is Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 6α , 11β , 6α ) - ) , with the molecular formula C 24 H 30 F 20 6 , a molecular weight of 452 . 49 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream USP 0 . 01 % contains 0 . 1 mg fluocinolone acetonide USP and each gram of Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream USP 0 . 025 % contains : 0 . 25 mg fluocinolone acetonide in a water washable cream base consisting of mineral oil ( and ) lanolin alcohols , isopropyl palmitate NF , propylene glycol stearate , cetyl alcohol NF , sorbitan monostearate NF , polysorbate 60 NF , sorbic acid NF , polyoxyl ( 40 ) stearate NF , purified water USP , propylene glycol USP with propylparaben NF and methylparaben NF as preservatives .
Each gram of Fluocinolone Acetonide Ointment USP 0 . 025 % contains 0 . 25 mg of fluocinolone acetonide USP in an ointment base consisting of light mineral oil NF and white petrolatum USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses , ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : Burning , Itching , Irritation , Dryness , Folliculitis , Hypertrichosis , Acneiform eruptions , Hypopigmentation , Perioral dermatitis , Allergic contact dermatitis , Maceration of the skin , Secondary infection , Skin atrophy , Striae and Miliaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 922 - 1038 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
In hairy sites , the hair should be parted to allow direct contact with the lesion .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
Some plastic films may be flammable and due care should be exercised in their use .
Similarly , caution should be employed when such films are used on children or left in their proximity , to avoid the possibility of accidental suffocation .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream 0 . 01 % USP is supplied in : 15 g tubes NDC 0713 - 0223 - 15 , 60 g tubes NDC 0713 - 0223 - 60 Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream 0 . 025 % USP is supplied in : 15 g tubes NDC 0713 - 0222 - 15 , 60 g tubes NDC 0713 - 0222 - 60 Fluocinolone Acetonide Ointment 0 . 025 % USP is supplied in : 15 g tubes NDC 0713 - 0224 - 15 , 60 g tubes NDC 0713 - 0224 - 60 Rx Only Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
South Plainfield , NJ 07080 VC7669 Rev . 09 / 2022 8 - FLUOCPLNC3 NDC 0713 - 0222 - 15 Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream USP 0 . 025 % 15 g FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only G & W Laboratories , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0222 - 60 Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream USP 0 . 025 % 60 g FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only G & W Laboratories , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0713 - 0223 - 15 Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream USP 0 . 01 % 15 g FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0223 - 60 Fluocinolone Acetonide Cream USP 0 . 01 % 60 g FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0713 - 0224 - 15 Fluocinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP 0 . 025 % 15 g FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0224 - 60 Fluocinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP 0 . 025 % 60 g FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
