Active ingredient Zinc Oxide , 13 . 0 % Purpose Skin protectant Uses • • helps treat and prevent diaper rash • • protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • • do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens • • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • change wet and soiled diapers promptly • • cleanse the diaper area • • allow to dry • • apply cream liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change , especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Other Information • • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , petrolatum , mineral oil , beeswax , PEG - 30 dipolyhydroxystearate , microcrystalline wax , polyglyceryl - 3 diisostearate , dimethicone , sorbitan sesquioleate , magnesium sulfate , phenoxyethanol , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , methylparaben , propylparaben , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , fragrance , potassium hydroxide .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Quick Relief Diaper Rash Cream with Zinc Oxide Helps To Heal , Soothe & Prevent Diaper Rash NET WT 4 OZ .
( 113 g ) * Compare to DESITIN ® RAPID RELIEF Quick Relief Creamy Diaper Rash Cream provides relief from the very first use by immediately forming a protective layer on your baby ’ s delicate skin to soothe and relieve discomfort caused by diaper rash .
This creamy , dermatologist - tested and hypoallergenic formula goes on smoothly and wipes off easily , to protect and treat diaper rash providing relief your baby can feel .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson ® Consumer Products Company , owner of the registered trademark Desitin ® Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 Manufactured in Israel 0D827 CD C1 SATISFACTION GUARANTEED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
