Active Ingredient ( s ) Zinc Oxide 12 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Rinse with water to remove .
• use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs .
• do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 F .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Shake well before use • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face • Do not spray in windy condition • Use in well - ventilated area • Reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours .
Sun Protection Measures : spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum spf of 15 or higher and other protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 A . M . - 2 P . M . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
May stain some fabrics and surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Bentonite , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Heptyl Undecylenate , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Juice , Jojoba Esters , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil * , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract * , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract * , Nasturtium Officinale ( Watercress ) Flower / Leaf Extract * , Spiraea Ulmaria ( Meadowsweet ) Flower Extract * , Glycerin , Coco - Glucoside , Caprylyl Glycol , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Cetearyl Alcohol .
Questions and comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 422 - 2987 Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM EST Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
