Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Acetaminophen 325 mg Purpose Pain reliever - fever reducer Uses ■ for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains associated with : ■ a cold ■ sore throat ■ headache ■ toothache ■ muscular aches ■ backache ■ the premenstrual and menstrual periods ( dysmenorrhea ) ■ for minor pain from arthritis ■ to reduce fever Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if : ■ adult takes more than 12 tablets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount for this product ■ child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours ■ taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen ■ adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product Do not use ■ with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is ■ taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ( for adults ) or 5 days ( for children ) ■ sore throat persists for more than 2 days ■ any of the following occurs ( these could be signs of a serious condition ) : ■ fever persists for more than 3 days ■ a severe sore throat ■ sore throat is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea , or vomiting ■ pain or fever persists or gets worse ■ new symptoms occur ■ redness or swelling is present ■ when using for pain or arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Do not give to children under 3 years of age or to children for the pain of arthritis .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions adults and children 12 years and over : 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , not to exceed 6 doses or 12 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children 11 to under 12 years of age : 1 to 1 . 5 tablets every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , not to exceed 5 doses or 7 . 5 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children 9 to under 11 years of age : 1 tablet every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , not to exceed 5 doses or 5 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 9 years of age : 1 tablet every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , not to exceed 5 doses or 5 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children 4 to under 6 years of age : 3 / 4 tablet every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , not to exceed 5 doses or 3 . 75 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children 3 to under 4 years of age : 1 / 2 tablet every 4 hours , while symptoms persist , not to exceed 5 doses or 2 . 5 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children under 3 years of age : ask a doctor Other information ■ keep tightly sealed ■ store between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients hydroxypropyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , and polyvinyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
