ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Purpose : Menthol 3 % … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical analgesic INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Inactive Ingredients : Aloe Vera Juice , Butyl Paraben , Camphor USP , Carbopol Polymer , Edetate Disodium , Ethyl Paraben , Eucalyptus Oil , Isobutyl Paraben , Methyl Paraben , Peacock Blue MX26 , 2 - Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Propyl Paraben , Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide , Yerba Mate , Yucca WARNINGS SECTION Warnings For external use only .
Do Not Use : • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area .
When using this product : • avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if : • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive skin irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact the Poison Control Center right away .
Dosage and Administration Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor PRODUCT DESCRIPTION Description : BioFlexor ® gel is an OTC topical analgesic preparation which delivers deep penetrating , effective pain relief .
BioFlexor ® is a unique product from several viewpoints .
In developing BioFlexor ® , our main focus was to formulate a potent topical analgesic agent that would minimize the need for oral narcotic analgesics .
The result is an exceptional product that truly helps those individuals suffering from the pain associated with the spectrum of medical conditions from arthritis to muscle aches and pain , simple back aches , strains , bruises , and sprains ..
Menthol is the only listed active ingredient on the BioFlexor ® label .
The other all natural components work synergistically to produce the pain relieving activity .
Another unique aspect of BioFlexor ® relates to the immediate and long - lasting pain relief without the side effects of lingering scent ( Methyl Salicylate rubs , ie .
Ben Gay ) , burning sensation ( Capsaicin ie .
Zostrix , Theragesic , Icy - Hot ) , greasy residue ( ie .
Aspercreme , Ben - Gay ) , and dry skin ( alcohol formulations , ie .
Biofreeze ) .
The BioFlexor ® formulation contains no alcohol , capsaicin , or methyl salicylate .
MECHANISM OF ACTION Mechanism of Action : The initial pain relief mechanism produced by the absorption of BioFlexor ® generates a topical cooling effect .
This is a result of vasoconstriction of peripheral vessels in the affected areas , yielding a decreased blood flow .
This action causes a decrease in temperature of the skin and subcutaneous tissues .
As penetration continues , an interruption of sympathetic nerve conduction occurs , producing a warm vasodilation .
This in turn increases the blood flow to muscle tissues and to the surface of the skin , promoting the healing process and rendering analgesic properties Uses Temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Store at 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
