Drug Facts Drug Facts Active ingredient & Purposes Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Purposes Naproxen sodium 220 mg ( naproxen 200 mg ) ( NSAID * ) Pain reliver / fever reducer * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to : • minor pain of arthritis • muscular aches • backache • menstrual cramps • headache • toothache • the common cold • temporarily reduces fever Warnings Alergy Alert : Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • asthma ( wheezing ) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warining : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you : • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , exept aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have sysmptoms of heart problems or stroke : • chest pain • trouble breathing • slurred speech • leg swelling • weakness in one part or side of body • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • you have difficulty swallowing • it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat • it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used • drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and older • take 1 tablet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour • do not exceed 2 tablets in any 8 - to 12 - hour period • do not exceed 3 tablets in a 24 - hour period children under 12 years • ask a doctor Other information • each caplet contains : sodium 20 mg • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid high humidity and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
• retain carton for complete product information Inactive ingredients corn starch , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , polythylene glycol , povidone K30 , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , titanium dioxide , water Distributed by : † This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Health LLC . , distributor of Aleve .
Aleve is a registered mark of bayer Health LLC .
PHARMADEL LLC New Castle , DE 19720 www . pharmadel . com ( f ) / PharmadelUSA 1 - 866 - 359 - 3478 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 24 tablets Compare to the Active Ingredient of Aleve † Rapidol ® NAPROXEN PAIN RELIEVER / FEVER REDUCER ( NSAID * ) 12 Hour " Strength to last " For Headaches 24 Caplets ** ** Capsule - Shaped Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
