DESCRIPTION Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , Nabi - HB , is a sterile solution of immunoglobulin ( 5 ± 1 % protein ) containing antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen ( anti - HBs ) .
It is prepared from plasma donated by individuals with high titers of anti - HBs .
The plasma is processed using a modified Cohn 6 / Oncley 9 cold - alcohol fractionation process 1 , 2 with two added viral reduction steps described below .
Nabi - HB is formulated in 0 . 042 - 0 . 108 M sodium chloride , 0 . 10 - 0 . 20 M glycine , and 0 . 005 - 0 . 050 % polysorbate 80 , at pH 5 . 8 - 6 . 5 .
The product is supplied as a nonturbid sterile liquid in single dose vials and appears as clear to opalescent .
It contains no preservative and is intended for single use by the intramuscular route only .
Each plasma donation used for the manufacture of Nabi - HB is tested for the presence of hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) surface antigen ( HBsAg ) , human immunodeficiency viruses ( HIV ) 1 / 2 , and hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) antibodies .
In addition , pooled samples of Source Plasma used in the manufacture of this product are tested by FDA licensed Nucleic Acid Testing ( NAT ) for HIV and HCV and found to be negative .
Investigational NAT for hepatitis A virus ( HAV ) and HBV is also performed on pooled samples of all Source Plasma used , and found to be negative ; however , the significance of a negative result has not been established .
Investigational NAT for parvovirus B19 ( B19 ) is also performed on pooled samples of all Source Plasma and the limit for B19 DNA in a manufacturing pool is set not to exceed 10 4 IU / mL .
The manufacturing steps for Nabi - HB are designed to reduce the risk of transmission of viral disease .
The solvent / detergent treatment step , using tri - n - butyl phosphate and Triton ® X - 100 , is effective in inactivating known enveloped viruses such as hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) , hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) , and human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) 3 .
Virus filtration , using a Planova ® 35 nm Virus Filter , is effective in reducing some known enveloped and non - enveloped viruses 4 .
The inactivation and reduction of known enveloped and non - enveloped model viruses were validated in laboratory studies as summarized in the following table : Table 1 Log Reduction of Test Viruses 5 BVD = Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus EMC = Encephalomyocarditis Virus HIV = Human Immunodeficiency Virus PVB19 = Parvovirus B19 PPV = Porcine Parvovirus PRV = Pseudorabies Virus NT = not tested * Value not included in cumulative clearance Test Virus HIV BVD PRV EMC PPV Model Virus : HIV HCV HBV Hepatitis A PVB19 Envelope / Genome : yes / RNA yes / RNA yes / DNA no / RNA no / DNA Manufacturing Step Precipitation of Cohn Fraction III > 5 . 9 3 . 6 3 . 7 4 . 4 3 . 9 Cuno Filtration NT NT NT > 6 . 6 5 . 4 Solvent / Detergent > 4 . 2 > 6 . 9 > 6 . 4 NT NT Nanofiltration > 7 . 4 > 6 . 9 > 5 . 7 3 . 0 0 . 7 * Cumulative > 17 . 5 > 17 . 4 > 15 . 8 > 14 . 0 9 . 3 Product potency is expressed in international units ( IU ) by comparison to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) standard .
Each milliliter ( mL ) of product contains greater than 312 IU anti - HBs .
The potency of each milliliter of Nabi - HB exceeds the potency of anti - HBs in a U . S . reference hepatitis B immune globulin ( FDA ) .
The U . S . reference has been tested by Biotest Pharmaceuticals against the WHO standard and found to be equal to 208 IU / mL .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) products provide passive immunization for individuals exposed to the hepatitis B virus as evidenced by a reduction in the attack rate of hepatitis B following use 6 - 9 .
Clinical studies 10 , 11 conducted prior to 1983 with hepatitis B immune globulins similar to Nabi - HB indicate the advantage of simultaneous administration of hepatitis B vaccine and Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) advises that the combination prophylaxis be provided in certain instances of exposure based upon the increased efficacy found with that regimen in neonates 12 .
Cases of hepatitis B are rarely seen following exposure to HBV in persons with preexisting anti - HBs .
However , no prospective studies have been performed on the efficacy of concurrent hepatitis B vaccine and Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) administration following parenteral exposure , mucous membrane contact , or oral ingestion in adults .
Infants born to HBsAg - positive mothers are at risk of being infected with HBV and becoming chronic carriers 13 .
The risk is especially great if the mother is also HBeAg - positive 14 .
Studies conducted with hepatitis B immune globulins similar to Nabi - HB indicated that for an infant with perinatal exposure to an HBsAg - positive and HBeAg - positive mother , a regimen combining one dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) at birth with the hepatitis B vaccine series started soon after birth is 85 - 98 % effective in preventing development of the HBV carrier state 15 - 17 .
Regimens involving either multiple doses of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) alone or the vaccine series alone have a 70 - 90 % efficacy , while a single dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) alone has 50 % efficacy 18 .
Since infants have close contact with primary caregivers and they have a higher risk of becoming HBV carriers after acute HBV infection , prophylaxis of an infant less than 12 months of age with Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) and hepatitis B vaccine is indicated if the mother or primary caregiver has acute HBV infection 19 .
Sexual partners of HBsAg - positive persons are at increased risk of acquiring HBV infection .
A single dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) is 75 % effective if administered within two weeks of the last sexual exposure to a person with acute hepatitis B 19 .
Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetics trials 20 of Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , given intramuscularly to 50 healthy volunteers demonstrated pharmacokinetic parameters similar to those reported by Scheiermann and Kuwert 21 .
The half - life for Nabi - HB was 23 . 1 ± 5 . 5 days .
The clearance rate was 0 . 35 ± 0 . 12 L / day and the volume of distribution was 11 . 2 ± 3 . 4 L . Maximum concentration of Nabi - HB was reached in 6 . 5 ± 4 . 3 days .
The maximum concentration of anti - HBs and the area under the time - concentration curve achieved by Nabi - HB were bioequivalent to that of another licensed Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) when compared in the same pharmacokinetics trial .
Comparability of pharmacokinetics between Nabi - HB and a commercially available hepatitis B immunoglobulin indicate that similar efficacy of Nabi - HB should be inferred .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , is indicated for treatment of acute exposure to blood containing HBsAg , perinatal exposure of infants born to HBsAg - positive mothers , sexual exposure to HBsAg - positive persons and household exposure to persons with acute HBV infec - tion in the following settings : • Acute Exposure to Blood Containing HBsAg : Following either parenteral exposure ( needlestick , bite , sharps ) , direct mucous membrane contact ( accidental splash ) , or oral ingestion ( pipetting accident ) , involving HBsAg - positive materials such as blood , plasma , or serum .
• Perinatal Exposure of Infants Born to HBsAg - positive Mothers : Infants born to mothers positive for HBsAg with or without HBeAg 12 .
• Sexual Exposure to HBsAg - positive Persons : Sexual partners of HBsAg - positive persons .
• Household Exposure to Persons with Acute HBV Infection : Infants less than 12 months old whose mother or primary caregiver is positive for HBsAg .
Other household contacts with an identifiable blood exposure to the index patient .
Nabi - HB is indicated for intramuscular use only .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Individuals known to have had an anaphylactic or severe systemic reaction to human globulin should not receive Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , or any other human immune globulin .
Nabi - HB contains not more than 40 micrograms per mL IgA .
Individuals who are deficient in IgA have the potential to develop antibodies against IgA and anaphylactic reactions .
The physician must weigh the potential benefit of treatment with Nabi - HB against the potential for hypersensitivity reactions .
WARNINGS In patients who have severe thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorder that would contraindicate intramuscular injections , Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , should be given only if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks .
Nabi - HB is made from human plasma .
Products made from human plasma may contain infectious agents , e . g . , viruses , and theoretically , the Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) agent .
The risk that such products can transmit an infectious agent has been reduced by screening plasma donors for prior exposure to certain viruses , by testing for the presence of certain current viral infections , and by inactivating and / or reducing certain viruses .
The Nabi - HB manufacturing process includes a solvent / detergent treatment step ( using tri - n - butyl phosphate and Triton ® X - 100 ) that is effective in inactivating known enveloped viruses such as HBV , HCV , and HIV .
Nabi - HB is filtered using a Planova ® 35 nm Virus Filter that is effective in reducing the levels of some enveloped and non - enveloped viruses .
These two processes are designed to increase product safety .
Despite these measures , such products can still potentially transmit disease .
There is also the possibility that unknown infectious agents may be present in such products .
ALL infections thought by a physician possibly to have been transmitted by this product should be reported by the physician or other health care provider to ADMA Biologics at 1 - 800 - 458 - 4244 .
The physician should discuss the risks and benefits of this product with the patient .
PRECAUTIONS General Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , must be administered only intramuscularly for post - exposure prophylaxis .
The preferred sites for intramuscular injections are the anterolateral aspect of the upper thigh and the deltoid muscle .
If the buttock is used due to the volume to be injected , the central region should be avoided ; only the upper , outer quadrant should be used , and the needle should be directed anterior ( i . e . , not inferior or perpendicular to the skin ) to minimize the possibility of involvement with the sciatic nerve 22 .
The 50 healthy volunteers who received Nabi - HB in pharmacokinetic studies were followed for 84 days for possible development of anti - HCV antibodies .
No subject seroconverted .
Drug Interactions Vaccination with live virus vaccines should be deferred until approximately three months after administration of Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) .
It may be necessary to revaccinate persons who received Nabi - HB shortly after live virus vaccination .
There are no available data on concomitant use of Nabi - HB and other drugs ; therefore , Nabi - HB should not be mixed with other drugs .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Nabi - HB .
It is also not known whether Nabi - HB can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect a woman ’ s ability to conceive .
Nabi - HB should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Nabi - HB is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established for Nabi - HB .
However , the safety and effectiveness of similar hepatitis B immune globulins have been demonstrated in infants and children 12 .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Nabi - HB did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Fifty male and female volunteers received Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , intramuscularly in pharmacokinetics trials 20 .
The number of patients with reactions related to the administration of Nabi - HB included local reactions such as erythema 6 ( 12 % ) and ache 2 ( 4 % ) at the injection site , as well as systemic reactions such as headache 7 ( 14 % ) , myalgia 5 ( 10 % ) , malaise 3 ( 6 % ) , nausea 2 ( 4 % ) , and vomiting 1 ( 2 % ) .
The majority ( 92 % ) of reactions were reported as mild .
The following adverse events were reported in the pharmacokinetics trials and were considered probably related to Nabi - HB : elevated alkaline phosphatase 2 ( 4 % ) , ecchymosis 1 ( 2 % ) , joint stiffness 1 ( 2 % ) , elevated AST 1 ( 2 % ) , decreased WBC 1 ( 2 % ) , and elevated creatinine 1 ( 2 % ) .
All adverse events were mild in intensity .
There were no serious adverse events .
No anaphylactic reactions with Nabi - HB have been reported .
However , these reactions , although rare , have been reported following the injection of human immune globulins 23 .
OVERDOSAGE Although no data are available , clinical experience reported with other human immune globulins suggests that the only manifestations of overdose with Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , would be pain and tenderness at the injection site .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This product is for intramuscular use only .
The use of this product by the intravenous route is not indicated .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
It is important to use a separate vial , sterile syringe , and needle for each individual patient , in order to prevent transmission of infectious agents from one person to another .
Any vial of Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) that has been entered should be used promptly .
Do not reuse or save for future use .
This product contains no preservative ; therefore , partially used vials should be discarded immediately .
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) may be administered at the same time ( but at a different site ) , or up to one month preceding hepatitis B vaccination without impairing the active immune response to hepatitis B vaccine 11 .
• Acute Exposure to Blood Containing HBsAg Table 2 summarizes prophylaxis for percutaneous ( needlestick , bite , sharps ) , ocular , or mucous membrane exposure to blood according to the source of exposure and vaccination status of the exposed person .
For greatest effectiveness , passive prophylaxis with Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) should be given as soon as possible after exposure , as its value after seven days following exposure is unclear 12 .
An injection of 0 . 06 mL / kg of body weight should be administered intramuscularly as soon as possible after exposure and within 24 hours , if possible .
Consult the hepatitis B vaccine package insert for dosage information regarding the vaccine .
For persons who refuse hepatitis B vaccine or are known non - responders to vaccine , a second dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) should be given one month after the first dose 12 .
Table 2 Recommendations for Hepatitis B Prophylaxis Following Percutaneous or Permucosal Exposure 12 * Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) dose of 0 . 06 mL / kg IM .
† See manufacturers ’ recommendation for appropriate dose .
‡ Less than 10 mIU / mL anti - HBs by radioimmunoassay , negative by enzyme immunoassay .
§ Two doses of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) is preferred if no response after at least four doses of vaccine .
Exposed Person Source Unvaccinated Vaccinated HBsAg - positive • Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) X1 immediately * • Initiate HB vaccine series † • Test exposed person for anti - HBs • If inadequate antibody ‡ , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) X 1 immediately plus either HB vaccine booster dose or second dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) one month later § Known Source - High Risk for HBsAg - positive • Initiate HB vaccine series • Test source for HBsAg .
If positive , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) X 1 • Test source for HBsAg only if exposed is vaccine nonresponder ; if source is HBsAg - positive , give Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) X 1 immediately plus either HB vaccine booster dose or second dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) one month later § .
Known Source - Low Risk for HBsAg - positive Initiate HB vaccine series Nothing required Unknown Source Initiate HB vaccine series Nothing required • Prophylaxis of Infants Born to Mothers who are Positive for HBsAg with or without HBeAg Table 3 contains the recommended schedule of hepatitis B prophylaxis for infants born to mothers that are either known to be positive for HBsAg or have not been screened .
Infants born to mothers known to be HBsAg - positive should receive 0 . 5 mL Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) after physiologic stabilization of the infant and preferably within 12 hours of birth .
The hepatitis B vaccine series should be initiated simultaneously , if not contraindicated , with the first dose of the vaccine given concurrently with the Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , but at a different site .
Subsequent doses of the vaccine should be administered in accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer .
Women admitted for delivery , who were not screened for HBsAg during the prenatal period , should be tested .
While test results are pending , the newborn infant should receive hepatitis B vaccine within 12 hours of birth ( see manufacturers ’ recommendations for dose ) .
If the mother is later found to be HBsAg - positive , the infant should receive 0 . 5 mL Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) as soon as possible and within seven days of birth ; however , the efficacy of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) administered after 48 hours of age is not known 10 , 19 .
Testing for HBsAg and anti - HBs is recommended at 12 - 15 months of age .
If HBsAg is not detectable and anti - HBs is present , the child has been protected 12 .
Table 3 Recommended Schedule of Hepatitis B Immunoprophylaxis to Prevent Perinatal Transmission of Hepatitis B Virus Infection 19 * See manufacturers ’ recommendations for appropriate dose .
† 0 . 5 mL administered IM at a site different from that used for the vaccine .
‡ See ACIP recommendation .
Age of Infant Administer Infant Born to mother known to be HBsAg - positive Infant born to mother not screened for HBsAg First Vaccination * Birth ( within 12 hours ) Birth ( within 12 hours ) Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) † Birth ( within 12 hours ) If mother is found to be HBsAg - positive , administer dose to infant as soon as possible , not later than 1 week after birth Second Vaccination * 1 month 1 - 2 months Third Vaccination * 6 months ‡ 6 months ‡ • Sexual Exposure to HBsAg - positive Persons All susceptible persons whose sexual partners have acute hepatitis B infection should receive a single dose of Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) ( 0 . 06 mL / kg ) and should begin the hepatitis B vaccine series , if not contraindicated , within 14 days of the last sexual contact or if sexual contact with the infected person will continue .
Administering the vaccine with Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) may improve the efficacy of post exposure treatment .
The vaccine has the added advantage of conferring long - lasting protection 19 .
• Household Exposure to Persons with Acute HBV Infection Prophylaxis of an infant less than 12 months of age with 0 . 5 mL Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) and hepatitis B vaccine is indicated if the mother or primary caregiver has acute HBV infection .
Prophylaxis of other household contacts of persons with acute HBV infection is not indicated unless they had an identifiable blood exposure to the index patient , such as by sharing toothbrushes or razors .
Such exposures should be treated like sexual exposures .
If the index patient becomes an HBV carrier , all household contacts should receive hepatitis B vaccine 19 .
HOW SUPPLIED Nabi - HB , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) , is supplied as : NDC Number Contents 69800 - 4202 - 1 a carton containing a 1 mL dose in a single - use vial ( > 312 IU ) and package insert 69800 - 4203 - 1 a carton containing a 5 mL dose in a single - use vial ( > 1560 IU ) and package insert STORAGE Refrigerate between 2 to 8 ° C ( 36 to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not use after expiration date .
Use within 6 hours after the vial has been entered .
REFERENCES • Cohn E . J . , Strong W . L . , Mulford D . J . , Ashworth J . N . , Melin M . , Taylor H . L . Preparation and Properties of Serum and Plasma Proteins IV .
A system for the separation into fractions of the protein and lipoprotein components of biological tissues and fluids .
J Am Chem Soc 1946 , 68 : 459 - 475 .
• Oncley J . L , Melin M , Richert D . A , Cameron J . W , Gross P . M .
The separation of antibodies , isoagglutinins , prothrombin , plasminogen and b1 - lipoproteins into sub - fractions of human plasma .
J Am Chem Soc 1949 , 71 : 541 - 550 .
• Horowitz B : Investigations into the application of tri ( n - butyl ) phosphate / detergent mixtures to blood derivatives .
Morgenthaler J ( ed ) : Virus Inactivation in Plasma Products , Curr Stud Hematol Blood Transfus 1989 ; 56 : 83 - 96 .
• Burnouf T : Value of virus filtration as method for improving the safety of plasma products .
Vox Sang 1996 ; 70 : 235 - 236 .
• Unpublished data on file , Viral Validation Study Reports , Biotest Pharmaceuticals .
• Grady GF , and Lee VA : Hepatitis B immune globulin - prevention of hepatitis from accidental exposure among medical personnel .
N Engl J Med 1975 ; 293 : 1067 - 1070 .
• Seeff LB , et al . : Type B hepatitis after needle - stick exposure : Prevention with hepatitis B immune globulin .
Ann Int Med 1978 ; 88 : 285 - 293 .
• Krugman S , and Giles JP : Viral hepatitis , type B ( MS - 2 - strain ) .
Further observations on natural history and prevention .
N Engl J Med 1973 ; 288 : 755 - 760 .
• Hoofnagle JH , et al . : Passive - active immunity from hepatitis B immune globulin .
Ann Int Med 1979 ; 91 : 813 - 818 .
• Beasley RP , et al . : Efficacy of hepatitis B immune globulin for prevention of perinatal transmission of the hepatitis B virus carrier state : Final report of a randomized double - blind , placebo - controlled trial .
Hepatology 1983 ; 3 : 135 - 141 .
• Szmuness W , et al . : Passive active immunisation against hepatitis B : Immunogenicity studies in adult Americans .
Lancet 1981 ; 1 : 575 - 577 .
• Centers for Disease Control : Recommendations for protection against viral hepatitis .
Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee ( ACIP ) .
MMWR 1985 ; 34 ( 22 ) : 313 - 335 .
• Shiraki Y , et al . : Hepatitis B surface antigen and chronic hepatitis in infants born to asymptomatic carrier mothers .
Am J Dis Child 1977 ; 131 : 644 - 647 .
• Beasley RP , et al . : The e antigen and vertical transmission of hepatitis B surface antigen .
Am J Epidemiol 1977 ; 105 : 94 - 98 .
• Wong VCW , et al . : Prevention of the HBsAg carrier state in newborn infants of mothers who are chronic carriers of HBsAg and HBeAg by administration of hepatitis B vaccine and hepatitis B immunoglobulin : Double - blind randomized placebo - controlled study .
Lancet 1984 ; 1 : 921 - 926 .
• Poovorawan Y , et al . : Long term hepatitis B vaccine in infants born to hepatitis B e antigen positive mothers .
Archives of Diseases in Childhood 1997 ; 77 : F47 - F51 .
• Stevens CE , et al . : Perinatal Hepatitis B virus transmission in the United States : Prevention by passive - active immunization .
JAMA 1985 ; 253 : 1740 - 1745 .
• Jhaveri R , et al . : High titer multiple dose therapy with HBIG in newborn infants of HBsAg positive mothers .
J Pediatr 1980 ; 97 : 305 - 308 .
• Centers for Disease Control : Hepatitis B virus : A comprehensive strategy for eliminating transmission in the United States through universal childhood vaccination .
Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee ( ACIP ) .
MMWR 1991 ; 40 ( 13 ) : 1 - 25 .
• Data on file , Biotest Pharmaceuticals .
• Scheiermann N , Kuwert EK : Uptake and elimination of hepatitis B immunoglobulins after intramuscular application in man .
Develop Biol Standard 1983 ; 54 : 347 .
• Centers for Disease Control : General recommendations on immunization .
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) .
MMWR 1994 ; 43 : 1 - 38 .
• Ellis EF , Henney CS : Adverse reactions following administration of human gamma globulin .
J Allerg 1969 ; 43 : 45 - 54 .
Manufactured by : ADMA Biologics , Inc .
Boca Raton , FL 33487 U . S . License No . 2019 July 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69800 - 4202 - 2 - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69800 - 4202 - 1 - Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69800 - 4203 - 2 - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69800 - 4202 - 1 - Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
