Drug Facts Active Ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / w ( without propellant ) Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use To regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of this carton ) Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Extremely Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp 5 % minoxidil topical foam is not intended for frontal baldmess or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area • massage into scalp with fingers , then wash hands well • see enclosed leaflet for complete directons on how to use • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again Other information • hair growth has been shown in a clinical study of men ( mostly white ) aged 18 - 49 years who used it for 4 months • see hair loss picture on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at controlled room temperature 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
• do not expose to heat or store at temperature above 120ºF ( 49ºC ) .
Inactive ingredients butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid anhydrous , dehydrated alcohol , isobutane , lactic acid , n - butane , polysorbate 60 , propane , purified water , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
• Call 1 - 470 - 737 - 9424 Manufactured and distributed by : Gabar Health Sciences Corp . , Atlanta , GA 30385 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ( For Men ) HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth Clinically proven to help regrow hair # 1 Dermatologist Recommended Active Ingredient Easy - to - use - foam unscented 3 MONTH SUPPLY 3 - 60 g ( 2 . 11 OZ ) CANS NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
