For IV or IM Use Only Rx Only WARNING Cases of QT prolongation and / or torsade de pointes have been reported in patients receiving droperidol at doses at or below recommended doses .
Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal .
Due to its potential for serious proarrhythmic effects and death , droperidol should be reserved for use in the treatment of patients who fail to show an acceptable response to other adequate treatments , either because of insufficient effectiveness or the inability to achieve an effective dose due to intolerable adverse effects from those drugs ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Cases of QT prolongation and serious arrhythmias ( e . g . , torsade de pointes ) have been reported in patients treated with droperidol .
Based on these reports , all patients should undergo a 12 - lead ECG prior to administration of droperidol to determine if a prolonged QT interval ( i . e . , QTc greater than 440 msec for males or 450 msec for females ) is present .
If there is a prolonged QT interval , droperidol should NOT be administered .
For patients in whom the potential benefit of droperidol treatment is felt to outweigh the risks of potentially serious arrhythmias , ECG monitoring should be performed prior to treatment and continued for 2 - 3 hours after completing treatment to monitor for arrhythmias .
Droperidol is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected QT prolongation , including patients with congenital long QT syndrome .
Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients who may be at risk for development of prolonged QT syndrome ( e . g . , congestive heart failure , bradycardia , use of a diuretic , cardiac hypertrophy , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , or administration of other drugs known to increase the QT interval ) .
Other risk factors may include age over 65 years , alcohol abuse , and use of agents such as benzodiazepines , volatile anesthetics , and IV opiates .
Droperidol should be initiated at a low dose and adjusted upward , with caution , as needed to achieve the desired effect .
DESCRIPTION Droperidol Injection , USP , is a sterile , non - pyrogenic , aqueous solution for intravenous or intramuscular use only .
Each mL contains : Droperidol … … … … … … … … … … … … … … . 2 . 5 mg Water for Injection … … … … … … … … … ........ q . s . pH adjusted between 3 . 0 and 3 . 8 with lactic acid and , if necessary , with sodium hydroxide .
Droperidol is a neuroleptic ( tranquilizer ) agent .
Chemically it is 1 - ( 1 - [ 3 - ( p - fluorobenzoyl ) propyl ] - 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 - tetrahydro - 4 - pyridyl ) - 2 - benzimidazolinone and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Droperidol produces marked tranquilization and sedation .
It allays apprehension and provides a state of mental detachment and indifference while maintaining a state of reflex alertness .
Droperidol produces an antiemetic effect as evidenced by the antagonism of apomorphine in dogs .
It lowers the incidence of nausea and vomiting during surgical procedures and provides antiemetic protection in the postoperative period .
Droperidol potentiates other CNS depressants .
It produces mild alpha - adrenergic blockade , peripheral vascular dilatation and reduction of the pressor effect of epinephrine .
It can produce hypotension and decreased peripheral vascular resistance and may decrease pulmonary arterial pressure ( particularly if it is abnormally high ) .
It may reduce the incidence of epinephrine - induced arrhythmias but it does not prevent other cardiac arrhythmias .
The onset of action of single intramuscular and intravenous doses is from three to ten minutes following administration , although the peak effect may not be apparent for up to thirty minutes .
The duration of the tranquilizing and sedative effects generally is two to four hours , although alteration of alertness may persist for as long as twelve hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Droperidol Injection is indicated to reduce the incidence of nausea and vomiting associated with surgical and diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Droperidol is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected QT prolongation ( i . e . , QTc interval greater than 440 msec for males or 450 msec for females ) .
This would include patients with congenital long QT syndrome .
Droperidol is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
Droperidol is not recommended for any use other than for the treatment of perioperative nausea and vomiting in patients for whom other treatments are ineffective or inappropriate ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution in the presence of risk factors for development of prolonged QT syndrome , such as : 1 ) clinically significant bradycardia ( less than 50 bpm ) , 2 ) any clinically significant cardiac disease , 3 ) treatment with Class I and Class III antiarrhythmics , 4 ) treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ' s ) , 5 ) concomitant treatment with other drug products known to prolong the QT interval ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) , and 6 ) electrolyte imbalance , in particular hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia , or concomitant treatment with drugs ( e . g . , diuretics ) that may cause electrolyte imbalance .
Effects on Cardiac Conduction : A dose - dependent prolongation of the QT interval was observed within 10 minutes of droperidol administration in a study of 40 patients without known cardiac disease who underwent extracranial head and neck surgery .
Significant QT prolongation was observed at all three dose levels evaluated , with 0 . 1 , 0 . 175 , and 0 . 25 mg / kg associated with prolongation of median QTc by 37 , 44 , and 59 msec , respectively .
Cases of QT prolongation and serious arrhythmias ( e . g . , torsade de pointes , ventricular arrhythmias , cardiac arrest , and death ) have been observed during post - marketing treatment with droperidol .
Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors and at doses at or below recommended doses .
There has been at least one case of nonfatal torsade de pointes confirmed by rechallenge .
Based on these reports , all patients should undergo a 12 - lead ECG prior to administration of droperidol to determine if a prolonged QT interval ( i . e . , QTc greater than 440 msec for males or 450 msec for females ) is present .
If there is a prolonged QT interval , droperidol should NOT be administered .
For patients in whom the potential benefit of droperidol treatment is felt to outweigh the risks of potentially serious arrhythmias , ECG monitoring should be performed prior to treatment and continued for 2 - 3 hours after completing treatment to monitor for arrhythmias .
FLUIDS AND OTHER COUNTERMEASURES TO MANAGE HYPOTENSION SHOULD BE READILY AVAILABLE .
As with other CNS depressant drugs , patients who have received droperidol should have appropriate surveillance .
It is recommended that opioids , when required , initially be used in reduced doses .
As with other neuroleptic agents , very rare reports of neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( altered consciousness , muscle rigidity and autonomic instability ) have occurred in patients who have received droperidol .
Since it may be difficult to distinguish neuroleptic malignant syndrome from malignant hyperpyrexia in the perioperative period , prompt treatment with dantrolene should be considered if increases in temperature , heart rate or carbon dioxide production occur .
PRECAUTIONS General The initial dose of droperidol should be appropriately reduced in elderly , debilitated and other poor - risk patients .
The effect of the initial dose should be considered in determining incremental doses .
Certain forms of conduction anesthesia , such as spinal anesthesia and some peridural anesthetics , can alter respiration by blocking intercostal nerves and can cause peripheral vasodilation and hypotension because of sympathetic blockade .
Through other mechanisms ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , droperidol can also alter circulation .
Therefore , when droperidol is used to supplement these forms of anesthesia , the anesthetist should be familiar with the physiological alterations involved , and be prepared to manage them in the patients elected for these forms of anesthesia .
If hypotension occurs , the possibility of hypovolemia should be considered and managed with appropriate parenteral fluid therapy .
Repositioning the patient to improve venous return to the heart should be considered when operative conditions permit .
It should be noted that in spinal and peridural anesthesia , tilting the patient into a head - down position may result in a higher level of anesthesia than is desirable , as well as impair venous return to the heart .
Care should be exercised in moving and positioning of patients because of a possibility of orthostatic hypotension .
If volume expansion with fluids plus these other countermeasures do not correct the hypotension , then the administration of pressor agents other than epinephrine should be considered .
Epinephrine may paradoxically decrease the blood pressure in patients treated with droperidol due to the alpha - adrenergic blocking action of droperidol .
Since droperidol may decrease pulmonary arterial pressure , this fact should be considered by those who conduct diagnostic or surgical procedures where interpretation of pulmonary arterial pressure measurements might determine final management of the patient .
Vital signs and ECG should be monitored routinely .
When the EEG is used for postoperative monitoring , it may be found that the EEG pattern returns to normal slowly .
Impaired Hepatic or Renal Function : Droperidol should be administered with caution to patients with liver and kidney dysfunction because of the importance of these organs in the metabolism and excretion of drugs .
Pheochromocytoma : In patients with diagnosed / suspected pheochromocytoma , severe hypertension and tachycardia have been observed after the administration of droperidol .
Drug Interactions Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents : Any drug known to have the potential to prolong the QT interval should not be used together with droperidol .
Possible pharmacodynamic interactions can occur between droperidol and potentially arrhythmogenic agents such as class I or III antiarrhythmics , antihistamines that prolong the QT interval , antimalarials , calcium channel blockers , neuroleptics that prolong the QT interval , and antidepressants .
Caution should be used when patients are taking concomitant drugs known to induce hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia as they may precipitate QT prolongation and interact with droperidol .
These would include diuretics , laxatives and supraphysiological use of steroid hormones with mineralocorticoid potential .
CNS Depressant Drugs : Other CNS depressant drugs ( e . g . barbiturates , tranquilizers , opioids and general anesthetics ) have additive or potentiating effects with droperidol .
When patients have received such drugs , the dose of droperidol required will be less than usual .
Following the administration of droperidol , the dose of other CNS depressant drugs should be reduced .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity studies have been carried out with droperidol .
The micronucleus test in female rats revealed no mutagenic effects in single oral doses as high as 160 mg / kg .
An oral study in rats ( Segment 1 ) revealed no impairment of fertility in either males or females at 0 . 63 , 2 . 5 and 10 mg / kg doses ( approximately 2 , 9 and 36 times maximum recommended human iv / im dosage ) .
Pregnancy Category C . Droperidol administered intravenously has been shown to cause a slight increase in mortality of the newborn rat at 4 . 4 times the upper human dose .
At 44 times the upper human dose , mortality rate was comparable to that for control animals .
Following intramuscular administration , increased mortality of the offspring at 1 . 8 times the upper human dose is attributed to CNS depression in the dams who neglected to remove placentae from their offspring .
Droperidol has not been shown to be teratogenic in animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Droperidol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery There are insufficient data to support the use of droperidol in labor and delivery .
Therefore , such use is not recommended .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether droperidol is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when droperidol is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use The safety of droperidol in children younger than two years of age has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS QT interval prolongation , torsade de pointes , cardiac arrest , and ventricular tachycardia have been reported in patients treated with droperidol .
Some of these cases were associated with death .
Some cases occurred in patients with no known risk factors , and some were associated with droperidol doses at or below recommended doses .
Physicians should be alert to palpitations , syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of episodes of irregular cardiac rhythm in patients taking droperidol and promptly evaluate such cases ( see WARNINGS , Effects on Cardiac Conduction ) .
The most common somatic adverse reactions reported to occur with droperidol are mild to moderate hypotension and tachycardia , but these effects usually subside without treatment .
If hypotension occurs and is severe or persists , the possibility of hypovolemia should be considered and managed with appropriate parenteral fluid therapy .
The most common behavioral adverse effects of droperidol include dysphoria , postoperative drowsiness , restlessness , hyperactivity and anxiety , which can either be the result of an inadequate dosage ( lack of adequate treatment effect ) or of an adverse drug reaction ( part of the symptom complex of akathisia ) .
Care should be taken to search for extrapyramidal signs and symptoms ( dystonia , akathisia , oculogyric crisis ) to differentiate these different clinical conditions .
When extrapyramidal symptoms are the cause , they can usually be controlled with anticholinergic agents .
Postoperative hallucinatory episodes ( sometimes associated with transient periods of mental depression ) have also been reported .
Other less common reported adverse reactions include anaphylaxis , dizziness , chills and / or shivering , laryngospasm and bronchospasm .
Elevated blood pressure , with or without pre - existing hypertension , has been reported following administration of droperidol combined with fentanyl citrate or other parenteral analgesics .
This might be due to unexplained alterations in sympathetic activity following large doses ; however , it is also frequently attributed to anesthetic or surgical stimulation during light anesthesia .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations : The manifestations of droperidol overdosage are an extension of its pharmacologic actions and may include QT prolongation and serious arrhythmias ( e . g . , torsade de pointes ) ( see BOXED WARNING , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Treatment : In the presence of hypoventilation or apnea , oxygen should be administered and respiration should be assisted or controlled as indicated .
A patent airway must be maintained ; an oropharyngeal airway or endotracheal tube might be indicated .
The patient should be carefully observed for 24 hours ; body warmth and adequate fluid intake should be maintained .
If hypotension occurs and is severe or persists , the possibility of hypovolemia should be considered and managed with appropriate parenteral fluid therapy .
( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
If significant extrapyramidal reactions occur in the context of an overdose , an anticholinergic should be administered .
The intravenous Median Lethal Dose of droperidol is 20 - 43 mg / kg in mice ; 30 mg / kg in rats ; 25 mg / kg in dogs and 11 - 13 mg / kg in rabbits .
The intramuscular Median Lethal Dose of droperidol is 195 mg / kg in mice ; 104 - 110 mg / kg in rats ; 97 mg / kg in rabbits and 200 mg / kg in guinea pigs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized .
Some of the factors to be considered in determining the dose are age , body weight , physical status , underlying pathological condition , use of other drugs , type of anesthesia to be used , and the surgical procedure involved .
Vital signs and ECG should be monitored routinely .
Adult Dosage : The maximum recommended initial dose of droperidol is 2 . 5 mg IM or slow IV .
Additional 1 . 25 mg doses of droperidol may be administered to achieve the desired effect .
However , additional doses should be administered with caution , and only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk .
Children ’ s Dosage : For children two to 12 years of age , the maximum recommended initial dose is 0 . 1 mg / kg , taking into account the patient ' s age and other clinical factors .
However , additional doses should be administered with caution , and only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS for use of droperidol with other CNS depressants , and in patients with altered response .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If such abnormalities are observed , the drug should not be administered .
HOW SUPPLIED Droperidol Injection USP , ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) is available as : Product No .
Strength Size How Packaged NDC 0517 - 9702 - 25 5 mg / 2 mL 2 mL Single Dose Vial Boxes of 25 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
RETAIN IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE .
REFERENCES • Saarnivaara L , Klemola UM , Lindgren L , et al .
QT interval of the ECG , heart rate and arterial pressure using propofol , methohexital or midazolam for induction of anaesthesia .
Acta Anaesthesiol Scand 1990 : 34 : 276 - 81 .
• Schmeling WT , Warltier DC , McDonald DJ , et al .
Prolongation of the QT interval by enflurane , isoflurane and halothane in humans .
Anesth Analg 1991 : 72 : 137 - 44 .
• Spath G . Torsade des pointe oder die andere Ursache des plotz - lichen Herztodes .
Wien : Ueberreuter .
1998 .
• Riley DC , Schmeling WT , al - Wathiqui MH , et al .
Prolongation of the QT interval by volatile anesthetics in chronically instrumented dogs .
Anesth Analg 1988 : 67 : 741 - 9 .
• McConachie I , Keaveny JP , Healy TE , et al .
Effects of anaesthesia on the QT interval .
Br J Anaesth 1989 : 63 : 558 - 60 .
• Lawrence KR , Nasraway SA .
Conduction disturbances associated with administration of butyrophenone antipsychotics in the critically ill : a review of the literature .
Pharmacother 1997 : 17 ( 3 ) : 531 - 7 .
• Lischke V , Behne M , Doelken P , et al .
Droperidol causes a dose - dependent prolongation of the QT interval .
Anesth Analg 1994 : 79 : 983 - 6 .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN9702 Rev . 1 / 09 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINICIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container NDC 0517 - 9702 - 01 Rx Only Droperidol Injection , USP 5 mg / 2 mL ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 2 mL Single - Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton DROPERIDOL INJECTION , USP 5 mg / 2 mL ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) NDC 0517 - 9702 - 25 25 X 2 mL SINGLE DOSE VIALS FOR INTRAVENOUS OR INTRAMUSCULAR USE Rx Only Each mL contains : Droperidol 2 . 5 mg , Water for Injection q . s . pH adjusted with Lactic Acid and , if necessary , with Sodium Hydroxide .
CONTAINS NO PRESERVATIVES .
DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
STORE IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 Rev . 11 / 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
