DESCRIPTION Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops ( Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Solution , USP ) contains 0 . 125 mg hyoscyamine sulfate per mL with 5 % v / v ethyl alcohol for oral administration .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir , USP ( Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir ) contains 0 . 125 mg hyoscyamine sulfate per 5 mL with 20 % v / v ethyl alcohol for oral administration .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets , USP contain 0 . 125 mg hyoscyamine sulfate formulated for oral administration .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is one of the principal anticholinergic / antispasmodic components of belladonna alkaloids .
The empirical formula is ( C 17 H 23 NO 3 ) 2 • H 2 SO 4 • 2 H 2 O and the molecular weight is 712 . 85 .
Chemically , it is benzeneacetic acid , ( α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 . ]
oct - 3 - yl ester , [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) , dihydrate with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops also contain as inactive ingredients : Ethyl alcohol , citric acid , FD & C red # 40 , FD & C yellow # 6 , lemon flavor , glycerin , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution , sucrose , and water .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir also contains as inactive ingredients : Ethyl alcohol , citric acid , FD & C red # 40 , FD & C yellow # 6 , lemon flavor , glycerin , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution , and sucrose .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets also contain as inactive ingredients : Colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hyoscyamine Sulfate inhibits specifically the actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of the smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node , and the exocrine glands .
At therapeutic doses , it is completely devoid of any action on autonomic ganglia .
Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits gastrointestinal propulsive motility and decreases gastric acid secretion .
Hyoscyamine sulfate also controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal and bronchial secretions .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is absorbed totally and completely by oral administration .
Once absorbed , hyoscyamine sulfate disappears rapidly from the blood and is distributed throughout the entire body .
The half - life of hyoscyamine sulfate is 2 to 3 1 / 2 hours .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is partly hydrolyzed to tropic acid and tropine but the majority of the drug is excreted in the urine unchanged within the first 12 hours .
Only traces of this drug are found in breast milk .
Hyoscyamine sulfate passes the blood brain barrier and the placental barrier .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine sulfate is effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
It can also be used to control gastric secretion , visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis , spastic bladder , cystitis , pylorospasm , and associated abdominal cramps .
May be used in functional intestinal disorders to reduce symptoms such as those seen in mild dysenteries , diverticulitis , and acute enterocolitis .
For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and functional gastrointestinal disorders .
Also used as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurogenic bladder and neurogenic bowel disturbances ( including the splenic flexure syndrome and neurogenic colon ) .
Also used in the treatment of infant colic ( elixir and drops ) .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic ; as a “ drying agent ” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis ; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis .
May be used in the therapy of poisoning by anticholinesterase agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of elderly or debilitated patients ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
WARNINGS In the presence of high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Like other anticholinergic agents , Hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs .
CNS signs and symptoms include confusion , disorientation , short term memory loss , hallucinations , dysarthria , ataxia , coma , euphoria , decreased anxiety , fatigue , insomnia , agitation and mannerisms , and inappropriate affect .
These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of the drug .
PRECAUTIONS General : Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrythmias , hypertension , and renal disease .
Investigate any tachycardia before giving any anticholinergic drug since they may increase the heart rate .
Use with caution in patients with hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Information for Patients : Like other anticholinergic agents , hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Use of hyoscyamine sulfate may decrease sweating resulting in heat prostration , fever or heat stroke ; febrile patients or those who may be exposed to elevated environmental temperatures should use caution .
Drug Interactions : Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade may occur when hyoscyamine sulfate is administered concomitantly with other antimuscarinics , amantadine , haloperidol , phenothiazines , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants or some antihistamines .
Antacids may interfere with the absorption of hyoscyamine sulfate .
Administer hyoscyamine sulfate before meals ; antacids after meals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long - term studies in animals have been performed to determine the carcinogenic , mutagenic or impairment of fertility potential of hyoscyamine sulfate ; however , years of marketing experience with hyoscyamine sulfate shows no demonstrable evidence of a problem .
Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with hyoscyamine sulfate .
It is also not known whether hyoscyamine sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Hyoscyamine sulfate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Hyoscyamine sulfate is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when hyoscyamine sulfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use : Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in safety between patients aged 65 and over and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS All of the following adverse reactions have been reported with hyoscyamine sulfate .
Adverse reactions may include dryness of the mouth ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; mydriasis ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; fatigue ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; abdominal pain ; diarrhea ; allergic reactions or drug idiosyncrasies ; urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; ataxia ; speech disturbance ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement ( especially in elderly persons ) ; short - term memory loss ; hallucinations ; and decreased sweating .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Measures to be taken are immediate lavage of the stomach and injection of physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg .
Fever may be treated symptomatically ( tepid water sponge baths , hypothermic blanket ) .
Excitement to a degree which demands attention may be managed with sodium thiopental 2 % solution given slowly intravenously or chloral hydrate ( 100 - 200 mL of a 2 % solution ) by rectal infusion .
In the event of progression of the curare - like effect to paralysis of the respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
In rats , the LD 50 for hyoscyamine is 375 mg / kg .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops .
( Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Solution , USP ) Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms .
Measure dosage very carefully .
Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older : 1 to 2 mL every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 12 mL in 24 hours .
Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age : 1 / 4 to 1 mL every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 6 mL in 24 hours .
Pediatric patients under 2 years of age : The following dosage guide is based upon body weight .
The doses may be repeated every four hours or as needed .
Body Weight Usual Dose Do Not Exceed In 24 Hours 3 . 4 kg ( 7 . 5 lb . )
4 drops 24 drops 5 kg ( 11 lb . )
5 drops 30 drops 7 kg ( 15 lb . )
6 drops 36 drops 10 kg ( 22 lb . )
8 drops 48 drops Use a dropper having markings of 3 , 4 , 5 DROPS , and 0 . 25 mL .
The approximate equivalent amount of hyoscyamine sulfate drops ( mL ) and its equivalent amount of hyoscyamine sulfate ( mg ) for each marking are as follows : Approximate Equivalent Amount Marking on Dropper Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops Solution ( mL ) Hyoscyamine Sulfate ( mg ) 3 DROPS 0 . 08 mL 0 . 01 mg 4 DROPS 0 . 11 mL 0 . 01375 mg 5 DROPS 0 . 14 mL 0 . 0175 mg 0 . 25 mL 0 . 25 mL 0 . 03125 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir .
Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms .
Measure dosage very carefully .
Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older : .
1 to 2 teaspoonfuls every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 12 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours .
Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age : .
Please see the following dosage guide is based on body weight .
The doses may be repeated every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours .
Body Weight Usual Dose 10 kg ( 22 lb . )
1 / 4 teaspoon ( 1 . 25 mL ) 20 kg ( 44 lb . )
1 / 2 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mL ) 40 kg ( 88 lb . )
3 / 4 teaspoonful ( 3 . 75 mL ) 50 kg ( 110 lb . )
1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets , 0 . 125 mg Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms .
Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older : 1 to 2 tablets every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours .
Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age : 1 / 2 to 1 tablet every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops ( hyoscyamine sulfate oral solution , USP ) ( Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 125 mg per mL ) is orange colored , lemon flavored , and contains 5 % ethyl alcohol .
It is supplied in a 20 mL bottle ( NDC 62135 - 513 - 52 ) .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir , USP ( Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 125 mg per 5 mL ) is orange colored , lemon flavored , and contains 20 % ethyl alcohol .
It is supplied in a pint ( 473 mL ) bottle ( NDC 62135 - 511 - 47 ) .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets , USP , 0 . 125 mg are white to off white , round tablets debossed with “ CE ” on one side and “ 116 ” on the other .
Bottles of 120 NDC 62135 - 512 - 12 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx only .
Manufactured for : Chartwell RX , LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 Rev . 11 / 2022 L70981 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir , USP ( 0 . 125 mg / 5 mL ) - NDC 62135 - 511 - 47 - 473 mL label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Solution , USP ( 0 . 125 mg / 1 mL ) - NDC 62135 - 513 - 52 - 20 mL label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets , USP - 0 . 125 mg - NDC 62135 - 512 - 12 - 120 s - Bottle - label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
