October 12 , 2022 Important Prescribing Information Temporary Importation of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP from Canada to Address Drug Shortage Dear Healthcare Professional : Due to the current critical shortage of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP products in the United States ( U . S . ) market , Accord Healthcare Inc . , USA ( Accord ) is coordinating with the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to temporarily import unapproved Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP [ 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) ] into the U . S . market .
The Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP from Accord Healthcare Inc . , is marketed in Canada Effective immediately , and during this temporary period of shortage , Accord will offer the following presentation of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP from Canada to the U . S . market : Product Name & Description Strength / Presentation Dosage Form Package size NDC Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) Injectable 2 mL , Single Dose , Clear Glass Vial with Orange Flip - Off Seal 16729 - 131 - 30 The vial and carton labels will display the text used and approved for marketing the products in Canada with both English and French translations .
It is important to note that there are differences in the format and content of the labeling as mentioned below between the US approved product and Accords Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP .
Specifically , the preparation and stability of this product differs from the U . S . version .
Please see the product comparison table at the end of this letter .
Table 1 .
Key differences in Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP • Vial container label • Vial carton label • Ingredients • Compatibility and storage • How supplied • Indication • Recommended dose • Contraindications • Drug Interactions • Overdosage • Boxed Warning • Warnings and Precautions • Adverse Reactions • Use in Specific Populations The barcode on the imported product label may not register accurately on the U . S . scanning systems .
Institutions should manually input the imported product information into their systems and confirm that the barcode , if scanned , provides correct information .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
In addition , the packaging of the imported product does not include serialization information .
Accords Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP does not meet the Drug Supply Chain Security Act ( DSCSA ) requirements for the Interoperable Exchange of Information for Tracing of Human , Finished Prescription Drugs .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP is available only by prescription in the U . S . Please refer to the package insert for the FDA - approved Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP drug product for full prescribing information To report adverse events associated with the use of this product , Healthcare providers should report to Accord Healthcare Inc at 1 - 866 - 941 - 7875 .
To report quality problems , or if you have any questions about the information contained in this letter or the use of Accords Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP , please contact Accord Healthcare Inc at 1 - 866 - 941 - 7875 or at accord _ usa @ accord - healthcare . com .
Adverse events or quality problems experienced with the use of this product may also be reported to the FDAs MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting Program either online , by regular mail , or by fax : • Complete and submit the report Online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular mail or Fax : Download form www . fda . gov / MedWatch / getforms . htm or call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 to request a reporting form , then complete and return to the address on the pre - addressed form or submit by fax to 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 ( 1 - 800 - 332 - 0178 ) .
To place an order , please contact Accord at csaccord @ intaspharma . com .
We remain at your disposal to answer any questions you may have about our product ; and provide more information if needed .
Sincerely , Sabita Nair , RAC , ASQ - CPGP Vice President - Regulatory Affairs Accord Healthcare , Inc .
Table 1 .
Key differences in Fludarabine Phosphate Injection USP US FDA Approved Product Imported Product Vial container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vial carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Product name Fludarabine Phosphate Injection 50 mg / 2 mL PrFludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg / 2 mL Route of administration For Intravenous use only For Intravenous use only Specific information Cytotoxic agent Cytotoxic Ingredients Each mL contains 25 mg of the active ingredient fludarabine phosphate , 1 . 78 mg disodium phosphate dihydrate , water for injection and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 7 . 5 .
The pH range for the final product is 7 . 3 to 7 . 7 .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is a sterile solution intended for intravenous administration .
Each mL contains 25 mg of the active ingredient fludarabine phosphate , 25 mg mannitol , 62 . 5 mg of disodium hydrogen phosphate dehydrate and water for injection .
The pH range of the final solution is 6 . 0 - 7 . 1 .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP is supplied as a colourless to slightly brown yellow , sterile solution for intravenous administration .
Compatibility and storage Fludarabine Phosphate Injection contains no antimicrobial preservative and should be used within 8 hours of opening .
Care must be taken to assure sterility of infusion solutions .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The product must be further diluted for intravenous infusion administration in PVC bags to a concentration of 1 mg / mL in 5 % Dextrose Injection USP , or in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP .
Use within 24 hours when kept at room temperature and 72 hours when refrigerated .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP contains no antimicrobial preservative and thus care must be taken to ensure the sterility of prepared solutions .
Incompatibilities Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should not be mixed with other drugs .
The formulation for intravenous use must not be mixed with other drugs .
Storage condition Store in a refrigerator between 2 ° and 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Store FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP under refrigeration between 2 ° C and 8 ° C . Do not freeze .
Discard unused portion .
How supplied Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is supplied as a sterile solution containing 25 mg of fludarabine phosphate in a single use vial .
NDC 66758 - 046 - 01 one carton containing 1 vial of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP is supplied in a 2 mL , single dose , clear glass vial with orange flip - off seal , packaged individually .
Indication Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) who have not responded to or whose disease has progressed during treatment with at least one standard alkylating agent containing regimen .
The safety and effectiveness of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in previously untreated or nonrefractory patients with CLL have not been established .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP is indicated for : • Second line treatment in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) and low - grade non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( Lg - NHL ) who have failed other conventional therapies .
Recommended dose The recommended adult dose of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is 25 mg / m 2 administered intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes daily for five consecutive days .
Each 5 - day course of treatment should commence every 28 days .
Dosage may be decreased or delayed based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity .
Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity occurs .
A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from Fludarabine Phosphate Injection .
These include advanced age , renal impairment , and bone marrow impairment .
Such patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
The optimal duration of treatment has not been clearly established .
It is recommended that three additional cycles of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection be administered following the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued .
The usual starting dose of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP ( fludarabine phosphate ) is 25 mg / m 2 administered intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes , daily for five days every 28 days .
Dosage may be decreased based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity .
Note that in patients with decreased renal function ( creatinine clearance between 30 and 70 mL / min ) the dose should be reduced by up to 50 % .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP ( fludarabine phosphate ) treatment is contraindicated , if creatinine clearance is < 30 mL / min .
( See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) .
The duration of treatment depends on the treatment success and the tolerability of the drug .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should be administered until the achievement of a maximal response ( complete or partial remission , usually 6 cycles ) and then the drug should be discontinued .
Contraindications None • Patients who are hypersensitive to this drug or to any ingredient in the formulation or component of the container .
For a complete listing , see the Dosage Forms , Composition and Packaging section of the product monograph .
• Renally impaired patients with creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min .
• Patients with decompensated hemolytic anemia • In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory CLL , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP in combination with pentostatin is contraindicated .
Drug Interactions Pentostatin : The use of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Serious Drug Interactions : In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory CLL , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP in combination with pentostatin is contraindicated .
For management of a suspected drug overdose , contact your regional Poison Control Centre .
Overdosage High doses of fludarabine phosphate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] have been associated with an irreversible central nervous system toxicity characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
High doses are also associated with severe thrombocytopenia and neutropenia due to bone marrow suppression .
There is no known specific antidote for fludarabine phosphate overdosage .
Treatment consists of drug discontinuation and supportive therapy .
Higher than recommended doses of fludarabine phosphate have been associated with leukoencephalopathy , acute toxic leukoencephalopathy , or posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome ( PRES ) / reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) .
Symptoms , which may be delayed and irreversible , may include headache , nausea and vomiting , seizures , visual disturbances such as vision loss , altered sensorium , focal neurological deficits , coma , and death .
Additional effects may include optic neuritis , and papillitis , confusion , somnolence , agitation , paraparesis / quadriparesis , muscle spasticity and incontinence .
High doses are also associated with bone marrow suppression manifested by thrombocytopenia and neutropenia .
There is no known specific antidote for fludarabine phosphate overdosage .
Treatment consists of drug discontinuation and supportive therapy .
Boxed Warning SEVERE BONE MARROW SUPPRESSION , CNS TOXICITY , HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA , AND PULMONARY TOXICITY Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of antineoplastic therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate injection can severely suppress bone marrow function .
When used at high doses in dose - ranging studies in patients with acute leukemia , fludarabine phosphate injection was associated with severe neurologic effects , including blindness , coma , and death .
This severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than the recommended dose .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity , including coma , seizures , agitation and confusion , has been reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate injection .
Patients undergoing treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Serious Warnings and Precautions FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should be administered under the supervision of , or prescribed by , a qualified physician experienced in the use of antineoplastic therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate is associated with : • Myelosuppression , including fatal cases ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hematologic ) • Irreversible CNS effects , including fatal cases ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Neurologic ) • Auto - immune hemolytic anemia , including fatal cases ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hematologic ) In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory CLL , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP in combination with pentostatin is contraindicated .
Warnings and Precautions 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Dose Dependent Neurologic Toxicities There are clear dose dependent toxic effects seen with fludarabine phosphate .
Dose levels approximately 4 times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than that recommended for CLL ( 25 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days ) were associated with a syndrome characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
Symptoms appeared from 21 to 60 days following the last dose .
Thirteen of 36 patients ( 36 % ) who received fludarabine phosphate at high doses ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) developed this severe neurotoxicity .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity , including coma , seizures , agitation and confusion , has been reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
In postmarketing experience neurotoxicity has been reported to occur either earlier or later than in clinical trials ( range 7 to 225 days ) .
The effect of chronic administration of fludarabine phosphate on the central nervous system is unknown ; however , patients have received the recommended dose for up to 15 courses of therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate may reduce the ability to drive or use mechanical equipment , since fatigue , weakness , visual disturbances , confusion , agitation and seizures have been observed .
5 . 2 Bone Marrow Suppression Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
In a Phase I study in adult solid tumor patients , the median time to nadir counts was 13 days ( range , 3 to 25 days ) for granulocytes and 16 days ( range , 2 to 32 days ) for platelets .
Most patients had hematologic impairment at baseline either as a result of disease or as a result of prior myelosuppressive therapy .
Cumulative myelosuppression may be seen .
While chemotherapy - induced myelosuppression is often reversible , administration of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection requires careful hematologic monitoring .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in adult patients .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
5 . 3 Autoimmune Reactions Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate in patients with or without a previous history of autoimmune hemolytic anemia or a positive Coombs ' test and who may or may not be in remission from their disease .
Steroids may or may not be effective in controlling these hemolytic episodes .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
The mechanism ( s ) which predispose patients to the development of this complication has not been identified .
Patients undergoing treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
Discontinuation of therapy with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is recommended in case of hemolysis .
5 . 4 Transfusion Associated Graft - Versus - Host Disease Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease has been observed after transfusion of non - irradiated blood in fludarabine phosphate treated patients .
Fatal outcome as a consequence of this disease has been reported .
Therefore , to minimize the risk of transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease , patients who require blood transfusion and who are undergoing , or who have received , treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should receive irradiated blood only .
5 . 5 Pulmonary Toxicity In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) in adults , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
5 . 6 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fludarabine phosphate injection in pregnant women , Fludarabine phosphate was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats and rabbits .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] 5 . 7 Male Fertility and Reproductive Outcomes Males with female sexual partners of childbearing potential should use contraception during and after cessation of fludarabine phosphate therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate may damage testicular tissue and spermatozoa .
Possible sperm DNA damage raises concerns about loss of fertility and genetic abnormalities in fetuses .
The duration of this effect is uncertain .
[ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] 5 . 8 Tumor Lysis Tumor lysis syndrome has been associated with fludarabine phosphate treatment .
This syndrome has been reported in CLL patients with large tumor burdens .
Since fludarabine phosphate can induce a response as early as the first week of treatment , precautions should be taken in those patients at risk of developing this complication .
5 . 9 Renal Impairment Fludarabine Phosphate Injection must be administered cautiously in patients with renal impairment .
The total body clearance of 2 - fluoro - ara - A has been shown to be directly correlated with creatinine clearance .
Patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min should have their fludarabine phosphate dose reduced and be monitored closely for excessive toxicity .
Fludarabine phosphate should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] In patients aged 65 years or older , creatinine clearance should be measured before start of treatment .
5 . 10 Vaccination During and after treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , vaccination with live vaccines should be avoided .
General FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP is a potent antineoplastic agent with potentially significant toxic side effects .
Patients undergoing therapy should be closely observed for signs of hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity .
Periodic assessment of peripheral blood counts is recommended to detect the development of neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia and leukopenia .
Vaccination with live vaccines should be avoided during and after treatment with FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis Disease progression and transformation ( eg , Richters Syndrome ) have been commonly reported in CLL patients ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Skin ) .
Endocrine and Metabolism Tumor lysis syndrome associated with fludarabine phosphate treatment has been reported in CLL patients with large tumor burdens .
Since FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP can induce a response as early as the first week of treatment , precautions should be taken in those patients at risk of developing this complication .
Gastrointestinal In clinical trials with oral fludarabine phosphate , nausea / vomiting and / or diarrhea were reported in approximately 38 % of patients .
In most cases , the severity was mild to moderate ( WHO toxicity grading ) .
Only a small percentage of patients , approximately 1 % with nausea / vomiting and 5 % with diarrhea , required therapy .
Patients with prolonged , clinically relevant , nausea / vomiting and diarrhea should be closely monitored to avoid dehydration .
Hematologic In patients with an impaired state of health , FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should be given with caution and after careful risk / benefit consideration .
This applies especially to patients with severe impairment of bone marrow function ( thrombocytopenia , anemia , and / or granulocytopenia ) , immunodeficiency or with a history of opportunistic infection .
Prophylactic treatment should be considered in patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Severe bone marrow suppression , notably thrombocytopenia , anemia , leukopenia and neutropenia , may occur with administration of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP and requires careful hematologic monitoring .
In a Phase I study in solid tumor patients , the median time to nadir counts was 13 days ( range , 3 - 25 days ) for granulocytes and 16 days ( range , 2 - 32 days ) for platelets .
Most patients had hematologic impairment at baseline either as a result of disease or as a result of prior myelosuppressive therapy .
Cumulative myelosuppression may be seen .
While chemotherapy - induced myelosuppression is often reversible , administration of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP requires careful hematologic monitoring .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in adult patients .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the cases reported has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred in both previously treated and untreated patients .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena ( e . g . autoimmune hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , pemphigus , acquired hemophilia and Evans ' syndrome ) have been reported to occur during or after treatment with fludarabine phosphate in patients with or without a previous history of autoimmune processes or a positive Coombs ' test and who may or may not be in remission from their disease .
Steroids may or may not be effective in controlling these hemolytic episodes .
One study was performed with 31 patients with hemolytic anemia related to the administration of fludarabine phosphate .
Since the majority ( 90 % ) of these patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process , rechallenge with FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should be avoided .
The mechanisms which predispose patients to the development of this complication have not been identified .
Patients undergoing treatment with FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should be evaluated and closely monitored for signs of autoimmune hemolytic anemia ( a decline in hemoglobin linked with hemolysis and a positive Coombs ' test ) .
Discontinuation of therapy with FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP is recommended in the event of hemolysis .
The transfusion of irradiated blood and the administration of corticosteroids are the most common treatment measures for autoimmune hemolytic anemia .
Hepatic / Biliary / Pancreatic No data are available concerning the use of fludarabine phosphate in patients with hepatic impairment .
In this group of patients , FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should be used with caution and administered if the perceived benefit outweighs any potential risk .
Immune Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease ( reaction by the transfused immunocompetent lymphocytes to the host ) has been observed after transfusion of nonirradiated blood in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Fatal outcome as a consequence of this disease has been reported with a high frequency .
Therefore , to minimize the risk of transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease , patients who require blood transfusion and who are undergoing or who have received treatment with FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should receive irradiated blood only .
Neurologic Administration of fludarabine phosphate can be associated with leukoencephalopathy ( LE ) , acute toxic leukoencephalopathy ( ATL ) , or posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome ( PRES ) / reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) .
LE , ATL or PRES / RPLS may occur : • at the recommended dose , most commonly • • when fludarabine phosphate is given following , or in combination with , medications known to be associated with LE , ATL or PRES / RPLS , or • when fludarabine phosphate is given in patients with cranial or total body irradiation , Graft versus Host Disease , renal impairment , or following Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation .
• at doses higher than the recommended dose .
When high doses of fludarabine phosphate were administered in dose - ranging studies in acute leukemia patients , a syndrome with delayed onset , characterized by blindness , coma , and death was identified .
Symptoms appeared from 21 to 60 days post dosing ( however , in post marketing experience , cases of neurotoxicity have been reported to occur both earlier and later than seen in clinical trials ) .
Demyelination , especially of the occipital cortex of the brain was noted .
The majority of these cases occurred in patients treated intravenously with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 - 7 days ) than the recommended dose .
Thirteen of 36 patients ( 36 . 1 % ) who received fludarabine phosphate at high doses ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days per course ) developed severe neurotoxicity , while only one of 443 patients ( 0 . 2 % ) who received the drug at low doses ( 40 mg / m2 / day for 5 days per course ) developed the toxicity .
In patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for CLL , Lg - NHL , severe central nervous system toxicity occurred rarely ( coma , seizures and agitation ) or uncommonly ( confusion ) .
LE , ATL or PRES / RPLS symptoms may include headache , nausea and vomiting , seizures , visual disturbances such as vision loss , altered sensorium , and focal neurological deficits .
Additional effects may include optic neuritis , and papillitis , confusion , somnolence , agitation , paraparesis / quadriparesis , muscle spasticity , incontinence , and coma .
The onset of the neurologic symptoms can be delayed and may occur after discontinuation of fludarabine .
Late - occurring encephalopathy has been reported up to 4 . 8 years following fludarabine .
LE / ATL / PRES / RPLS may be irreversible , life - threatening , or fatal .
The effect of chronic administration of fludarabine phosphate on the central nervous system is unknown .
In some studies , however , patients tolerated the recommended dose , for relatively long treatment periods ( up to 26 courses of therapy ) .
Periodic neurological assessments are recommended .
Whenever LE , ATL or PRES / RPLS is suspected , FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP treatment should be stopped .
Patients should be monitored and should undergo brain imaging , preferably utilizing MRI .
If the diagnosis is confirmed , FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP therapy should be permanently discontinued .
Renal The total body clearance of the principal plasma metabolite 2 F - ara - A shows a correlation with creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the compound .
Patients with reduced renal function demonstrated an increased total body exposure ( AUC of 2 F - ara - A ) .
Limited clinical data are available in patients with impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance below 70 mL / min ) .
Therefore , if renal impairment is clinically suspected , or in patients over the age of 70 years , creatinine clearance should be measured .
If creatinine clearance is between 30 and 70 mL / min , the dose should be reduced by up to 50 % and close hematological monitoring should be used to assess toxicity .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP treatment is contraindicated , if creatinine clearance is < 30 mL / min .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Sexual Function / Reproduction Preclinical toxicology studies in mice , rats and dogs have demonstrated dose - related adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Observations consisted of a decrease in mean testicular weights in dogs and degeneration and necrosis of spermatogenic epithelium of the testes in mice , rats and dogs .
The possible adverse effects on fertility in males and females in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Therefore , it is recommended that men and women of child - bearing potential take contraceptive measures during FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP therapy , and for at least 6 months after the cessation of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP therapy .
Skin The worsening or flare - up of pre - existing skin cancer lesions , as well as new onset of skin cancer , has been reported to occur in patients during or after intravenous ( i . v . ) fludarabine phosphate therapy .
Special Populations Pregnant Women : There are very limited data of fludarabine phosphate use in pregnant women in the first trimester : one newborn has been described with absent bilateral radii and normal thumbs , thrombocytopenia , fossa ovalis aneurysm and a small patent ductus arteriosus .
Early pregnancy loss has been reported in fludarabine phosphate monotherapy as well as in combination therapy .
Premature delivery has been reported .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary ( e . g . , life - threatening situation , no alternative safer treatment available without compromising the therapeutic benefit , treatment cannot be avoided ) .
It has the potential to cause fetal harm .
Prescribers may only consider it to be used if the potential benefits justify the potential risks to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential must be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women should avoid becoming pregnant while on FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP therapy .
Women of childbearing potential or fertile males must take effective contraceptive measures during and at least for 6 months after cessation of therapy .
Nursing Women : Breast - feeding should not be initiated during FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP treatment .
Nursing women should discontinue breastfeeding .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
There is evidence from preclinical data that after intravenous administration to rats that fludarabine phosphate and / or metabolites transfer from maternal blood to milk .
Pediatrics : The safety and effectiveness of fludarabine phosphate in children have not been established .
Geriatrics ( > 75 years of age ) : Since there are limited data for the use of fludarabine phosphate in elderly persons ( > 75 years ) , caution should be exercised with the administration of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP in these patients .
The total body clearance of the principal plasma metabolite 2 F - ara - A shows a correlation with creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the compound .
Patients with reduced kidney function demonstrated an increased total body exposure ( AUC of 2 F - ara - A ) .
Limited clinical data are available in patients with impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance below 70 mL / min ) .
Since renal impairment is frequently present in patients over the age of 70 years , creatinine clearance should be measured .
If creatinine clearance is between 30 and 70 mL / min , the dose should be reduced by up to 50 % , and close hematologic monitoring should be used to assess toxicity .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP treatment is contraindicated if creatinine clearance is < 30 mL / min .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Monitoring and Laboratory Tests During treatment , the patient ' s hematologic ( particularly neutrophils and platelets ) and serum chemistry profiles should be monitored regularly .
Effects on Ability to Drive or Operate Machines FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP may reduce the ability to drive or use machines , since fatigue , weakness , visual disturbances , confusion , agitation and seizures have been observed .
Adverse Reactions 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Very common adverse reactions include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , fever and chills , fatigue , weakness , infection , pneumonia , cough , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
Other commonly reported events include malaise , mucositis , and anorexia .
Serious opportunistic infections have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions and those reactions which are more clearly related to the drug are arranged below according to body system .
6 . 1 Hematopoietic Systems Hematologic events ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and / or anemia ) were reported in the majority of CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
During fludarabine phosphate treatment of 133 patients with CLL , the absolute neutrophil count decreased to less than 500 / mm3 in 59 % of patients , hemoglobin decreased from pretreatment values by at least 2 grams percent in 60 % , and platelet count decreased from pretreatment values by at least 50 % in 55 % .
Myelosuppression may be severe , cumulative , and may affect multiple cell lines .
Bone marrow fibrosis occurred in one CLL patient treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in post - marketing surveillance .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemias , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur in patients receiving fludarabine phosphate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
In post - marketing experience , cases of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia , mainly associated with prior , concomitant or subsequent treatment with alkylating agents , topoisomerase inhibitors , or irradiation have been reported .
6 . 2 Infections Serious and sometimes fatal infections , including opportunistic infections and reactivations of latent viral infections such as VZV ( herpes zoster ) , Epstein - Barr virus and JC virus ( progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ) have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Rare cases of Epstein - Barr ( EBV ) associated lymphoproliferative disorders have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
In post - marketing experience , cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have been reported .
Most cases had a fatal outcome .
Many of these cases were confounded by prior and / or concurrent chemotherapy .
The time to onset ranged from a few weeks to approximately one year after initiating treatment .
Of the 133 adult CLL patients in the two trials , there were 29 fatalities during study , approximately 50 % of which were due to infection .
6 . 3 Metabolic Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
This complication may include hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , metabolic acidosis , hyperkalemia , hematuria , urate crystalluria , and renal failure .
The onset of this syndrome may be heralded by flank pain and hematuria .
6 . 4 Nervous System Objective weakness , agitation , confusion , seizures , visual disturbances , optic neuritis , optic neuropathy , blindness and coma have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate at the recommended dose .
Peripheral neuropathy has been observed in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate and one case of wrist - drop was reported .
There have been additional reports of cerebral hemorrhage though the frequency is not known [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
6 . 5 Pulmonary System Pneumonia , a frequent manifestation of infection in CLL patients , occurred in 16 % , and 22 % of those treated with fludarabine phosphate in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions to fludarabine phosphate characterized by dyspnea , cough and interstitial pulmonary infiltrate have been observed .
In post - marketing experience , cases of severe pulmonary toxicity have been observed with fludarabine phosphate use which resulted in ARDS , respiratory distress , pulmonary hemorrhage , pulmonary fibrosis , pneumonitis and respiratory failure .
After an infectious origin has been excluded , some patients experienced symptom improvement with corticosteroids .
6 . 6 Gastrointestinal System Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea , vomiting , anorexia , diarrhea , stomatitis , and hemorrhage have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Elevations of pancreatic enzyme levels have also been reported .
6 . 7 Cardiovascular Edema has been frequently reported .
One patient developed a pericardial effusion possibly related to treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
There have been reports of heart failure and arrhythmia .
No other severe cardiovascular events were considered to be drug related .
6 . 8 Genitourinary System Hemorrhagic cystitis has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
6 . 9 Skin Skin toxicity , consisting primarily of skin rashes , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Erythema multiforme , Steven - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis and pemphigus have been reported , with fatal outcomes in some cases .
6 . 10 Neoplasms Worsening or flare - up of preexisting skin cancer lesions , as well as new onset of skin cancer , has been reported in patients during or after treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
6 . 11 Hepatobiliary Disorders Elevations of hepatic enzyme levels have been reported .
6 . 12 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Data in Table 1 are derived from the 133 patients with CLL who received fludarabine phosphate in the MDAH and SWOG studies .
Adverse Drug Reaction Overview The most common adverse events occurring with fludarabine phosphate use include myelosuppression ( anemia , leukopenia , neutropenia and thrombocytopenia ) , leading to decreased resistance to infection , including pneumonia , cough , fever , fatigue , weakness , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
Other commonly reported events include chills , edema , malaise , peripheral neuropathy , visual disturbance , anorexia , mucositis , stomatitis and skin rash .
Serious opportunistic infections have occurred in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Fatalities as a consequence of serious adverse events have been reported .
The table below reports adverse events by MedDRA system organ classes ( MedDRA SOCs ) .
The frequencies are based on clinical trial data regardless of the causal relationship with fludarabine phosphate .
TABLE 1 : PERCENT OF CLL PATIENTS REPORTING NON - HEMATOLOGIC ADVERSE REACTIONS Table 2 Fludarabine phosphate Clinical Trial Adverse Events ( by MedDRA SOC ) Adverse Reactions MDAH ( N = 101 ) SWOG ( N = 32 ) System Organ Class MedDRA Very Common 1 / 10 Common 1 / 100 to < 1 / 10 Uncommon 1 / 1000 to < 1 / 100 Rare 1 / 10 , 000 to < 1 / 1000 ANY ADVERSE REACTION 88 % 91 % Infections and infestations Infections / opportunistic infections ( like latent viral reactivation , e . g . , Herpes zoster virus , Epstein - Barr virus , Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy ) , pneumonia Lymphoproliferative disorder ( EBV - associated ) BODY AS A WHOLE 72 84 Neoplasms benign , malignant and unspecified ( including cysts and polyps ) Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia ( mainly associated with prior , concomitant , or subsequent treatment with alkylating agents , topoisomerase inhibitors or irradiation ) FEVER 60 69 Blood and lymphatic system disorders Neutropenia , anemia , thrombocytopenia Myelosuppression CHILLS 11 19 Immune system disorders Autoimmune disorder ( including autoimmune hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenic purpura , pemphigus , Evans syndrome , acquired hemophilia ) FATIGUE 10 38 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Anorexia Tumor lysis syndrome ( including renal failure , hyperkalemia , metabolic acidosis , hematuria , urate crystalluria , hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia ) INFECTION 33 44 Nervous system disorders Neuropathy peripheral Confusion Agitation , seizures , coma PAIN 20 22 Eye disorders Visual disturbance Optic neuritis , optic neuropathy , blindness PAIN 20 22 Cardiac disorders Heart failure , arrhythmia MALAISE 8 6 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough Pulmonary toxicity ( including dyspnea , pulmonary fibrosis , pneumonitis ) DIAPHORESIS 1 13 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea Stomatitis Gastrointestinal hemorrhage , pancreatic enzymes abnormal ALOPECIA 0 3 Hepatobiliary disorders Hepatic enzyme abnormal ANAPHYLAXIS 1 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash Skin cancer , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , necrolysis epidermal toxic ( Lyell type ) HEMORRHAGE 1 0 Renal and urinary disorder Urinary tract hemorrhage ( including hemorrhagic cystitis ) HYPERGLYCEMIA 1 6 General disorders and administration site conditions Fever , fatigue , weakness Chills , malaise , edema , mucositis DEHYDRATION 1 0 NEUROLOGICAL 21 69 WEAKNESS 9 65 PARESTHESIA 4 12 HEADACHE 3 0 VISUAL DISTURBANCE 3 15 HEARING LOSS 2 6 SLEEP DISORDER 1 3 DEPRESSION 1 0 CEREBELLAR SYNDROME 1 0 IMPAIRED MENTATION 1 0 PULMONARY 35 69 COUGH 10 44 PNEUMONIA 16 22 DYSPNEA 9 22 SINUSITIS 5 0 PHARYNGITIS 0 9 UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION 2 16 ALLERGIC PNEUMONITIS 0 6 EPISTAXIS 1 0 HEMOPTYSIS 1 6 BRONCHITIS 1 0 HYPOXIA 1 0 GASTROINTESTINAL 46 63 NAUSEA / VOMITING 36 31 DIARRHEA 15 13 ANOREXIA 7 34 STOMATITIS 9 0 GI BLEEDING 3 13 ESOPHAGITIS 3 0 MUCOSITIS 2 0 LIVER FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL LIVER FUNCTION TEST 1 3 CONSTIPATION 1 3 DYSPHAGIA 1 0 CUTANEOUS 17 18 RASH 15 15 PRURITUS 1 3 SEBORRHEA 1 0 GENITOURINARY 12 22 DYSURIA 4 3 URINARY INFECTION 2 15 HEMATURIA 2 3 RENAL FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL RENAL FUNCTION TEST 1 0 PROTEINURIA 1 0 HESITANCY 0 3 CARDIOVASCULAR 12 38 EDEMA 8 3 ANGINA 0 6 CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE 0 3 ARRHYTHMIA 0 3 SUPRAVENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA 0 3 MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION 0 3 DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS 1 3 PHLEBITIS 1 3 TRANSIENT ISCHEMIC ATTACK 1 0 ANEURYSM 1 0 CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT 0 3 MUSCULOSKELETAL 7 16 MYALGIA 4 16 OSTEOPOROSIS 2 0 ARTHRALGIA 1 0 TUMOR LYSIS SYNDROME 1 0 More than 3000 adult patients received fludarabine phosphate in studies of other leukemias , lymphomas , and other solid tumors .
The spectrum of adverse effects reported in these studies was consistent with the data presented above .
Post - Market Adverse Reaction The following adverse reactions are based on post - marketing data regardless of the causal relationship with fludarabine phosphate .
Blood and lymphatic disorders : pancytopenia , myelosuppression , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , cytopenia , tri - lineage bone marrow aplasia Cardiac disorders : edema , heart failure , arrhythmia Eye disorders : blindness , optic neuritis , optic neuropathy , eye hemorrhage including retinal Gastrointestinal disorders : anorexia General disorders and administrative conditions : chills Genitourinary disorders ( initial PI ) / Metabolism and nutritional disorders : hematuria ( context of TLS ) , hypocalcemia ( context of TLS ) , hyperphosphatemia ( context of TLS ) , hyperuricemia , renal failure ( context of TLS ) , urate crystalluria ( context of TLS ) , metabolic acidosis ( context of TLS ) , hyperkalemia ( context of TLS ) Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatic enzymes abnormal , pancreatic enzymes abnormal Immune system disorders : transfusion - related GVHD , thrombocytopenic purpura , Evans syndrome , pemphigus , autoimmune hemolytic anemia , acquired hemophilia Infections and infestations : opportunistic infections , herpes zoster virus , Epstein - Barr virus , latent viral reactivation , progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy , human polyomavirus JC virus ( context of PML ) , disease transformation CLL Neoplasms , benign , malignant and unspecified : acute myeloid leukemia , Richters syndrome , myelodysplastic syndrome , disease progressive CLL , lympho - proliferative disorder ( EBV - associated ) Nervous system disorders : seizures , agitation , confusion , coma ; leukoencephalopathy , acute toxic leukoencephalopathy , posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome / reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Neurologic ) .
Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : pulmonary toxicity , pneumonitis , pulmonary fibrosis , dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : toxic epidermal necrolysis , rash , worsening of pre - existing skin cancer lesions , skin cancer , Stevens - Johnson syndrome Vascular disorders : hemorrhage , pulmonary hemorrhage , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , urinary tract hemorrhage including hemorrhagic cystitis , cerebral hemorrhage Use in Specific Populations 8 . 1 Pregnancy [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in pregnant women .
In rats , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 2 . 4 times and 7 . 2 times the recommended human IV dose ( 25 mg / m 2 ) administered during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions , skeletal and visceral malformations ( cleft palate , exencephaly , and fetal vertebrae deformities ) and decreased fetal body weights .
Maternal toxicity was not apparent at 2 . 4 times the human IV dose , and was limited to slight body weight decreases at 7 . 2 times the human IV dose .
In rabbits , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 3 . 8 times the human IV dose administered during organogenesis increased embryo and fetal lethality as indicated by increased resorptions and a decrease in live fetuses .
A significant increase in malformations including cleft palate , hydrocephaly , adactyly , brachydactyly , fusions of the digits , diaphragmatic hernia , heart / great vessel defects , and vertebrae / rib anomalies were seen in all dose levels ( 0 . 5 times the human IV dose ) .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether fludarabine phosphate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions including tumorigenicity in nursing infants , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug for the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Data submitted to the FDA was insufficient to establish efficacy in any childhood malignancy .
Fludarabine phosphate was evaluated in 62 pediatric patients ( median age 10 , range 1 to 21 ) with refractory acute leukemia ( 45 patients ) or solid tumors ( 17 patients ) .
Limited pharmacokinetic data for fludarabine phosphate are available in children ( ages 1 to 21 years ) .
When fludarabine phosphate was administered as a loading dose over 10 minutes immediately followed by a 5 - day continuous infusion , steady - state conditions were reached early .
The fludarabine phosphate regimen tested for pediatric lymphocytic leukemia ( ALL ) patients was a loading bolus of 10 . 5 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 30 . 5 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
In 12 pediatric patients with solid tumors , dose - limiting myelosuppression was observed with a loading dose of 8 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 23 . 5 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
The maximum tolerated dose was a loading dose of 7 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 20 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
Treatment toxicity included bone marrow suppression .
Platelet counts appeared to be more sensitive to the effects of fludarabine phosphate than hemoglobin and white blood cell counts .
Other adverse events included fever , chills , asthenia , rash , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and infection .
There were no reported occurrences of peripheral neuropathy or pulmonary hypersensitivity reaction .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment The total body clearance of the principal metabolite 2 - fluoro - ara - A correlated with the creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the drug .
Renal clearance represents approximately 40 % of the total body clearance .
Patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min should have their fludarabine phosphate dose reduced and be monitored closely for excessive toxicity .
Due to insufficient data , fludarabine phosphate should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Pregnant Women : There are very limited data of fludarabine phosphate use in pregnant women in the first trimester : one newborn has been described with absent bilateral radii and normal thumbs , thrombocytopenia , fossa ovalis aneurysm and a small patent ductus arteriosus .
Early pregnancy loss has been reported in fludarabine phosphate monotherapy as well as in combination therapy .
Premature delivery has been reported .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary ( e . g . , life - threatening situation , no alternative safer treatment available without compromising the therapeutic benefit , treatment cannot be avoided ) .
It has the potential to cause fetal harm .
Prescribers may only consider it to be used if the potential benefits justify the potential risks to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential must be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women should avoid becoming pregnant while on FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP therapy .
Women of childbearing potential or fertile males must take effective contraceptive measures during and at least for 6 months after cessation of therapy .
Nursing Women : Breast - feeding should not be initiated during FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP treatment .
Nursing women should discontinue breastfeeding .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
There is evidence from preclinical data that after intravenous administration to rats that fludarabine phosphate and / or metabolites transfer from maternal blood to milk .
Pediatrics : The safety and effectiveness of fludarabine phosphate in children have not been established .
Geriatrics ( > 75 years of age ) : Since there are limited data for the use of fludarabine phosphate in elderly persons ( > 75 years ) , caution should be exercised with the administration of FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP in these patients .
The total body clearance of the principal plasma metabolite 2 F - ara - A shows a correlation with creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the compound .
Patients with reduced kidney function demonstrated an increased total body exposure ( AUC of 2 F - ara - A ) .
Limited clinical data are available in patients with impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance below 70 mL / min ) .
Since renal impairment is frequently present in patients over the age of 70 years , creatinine clearance should be measured .
If creatinine clearance is between 30 and 70 mL / min , the dose should be reduced by up to 50 % , and close hematologic monitoring should be used to assess toxicity .
FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE INJECTION , USP treatment is contraindicated if creatinine clearance is < 30 mL / min .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product Name & Description Strength / Presentation Dosage Form Package size NDC Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) Injectable 2 mL , Single Dose , Clear Glass Vial with Orange Flip - Off Seal 16729 - 131 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Vial Label Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP Sterile Solution for Injection 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) Sterile Cytotoxic IV - Dilute Before Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Vial Carton Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) Sterile Solution for Injection Antineoplastic Agent For Intravenous ( IV ) Infusion Only Dilute Before Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
