Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide ( 3 . 5 % ) Purpose .
Acne Medication Use For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Do not use if you • Have very sensitive skin .
• Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
When using this product • Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth .
• Avoid contact with hair or dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
• Skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • To use as a cleanser : Wet face .
Squeeze into hands and gently massage all over the face , avoiding the eye area .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
• To use as a mask : Do not exceed 2 to 3 times per week .
Squeeze into hands .
Smooth an even layer over skin , avoiding the eye area .
Allow to dry up to 5 minutes .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other Information Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , Kaolin , Bentonite , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Titanium Dioxide , Citric Acid , Xanthan Gum , Benzyl Alcohol , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Hydroxide , Fragrance , Disodium EDTA , Menthol Questions ?
Call toll - free 800 - 582 - 4048 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) .
www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 125 mL Tube Label Clear Pore Cleanser / Mask Use as a Daily Cleanser to clear breakouts and blackhead - causing impurities Use as an Intensive Mask for deep cleansing and extra shine control Neutrogena ® benzoyl peroxide acne medication 4 . 2 FL OZ ( 125 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
