Drug Facts Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / w ( without propellant ) Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of this carton ) Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Extremely Flammable Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not Use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % minoxidil topical foam is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area • massage into scalp with fingers , then wash hands well • see enclosed booklet for complete directions on how to use • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again Other information • hair growth has been shown in a clinical study of men ( mostly white ) aged 18 - 49 years who used it for 4 months • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on package and enclosed booklet • keep the package .
It contains important information • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients butane , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , glycerin , isobutane , lactic acid , polysorbate 60 , propane , purified water , SD alcohol40 - B , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
• call toll - free 800 - ROGAINE or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) • visit www . rogaine . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Three 60 g Can Package # 1 DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND MEN ' S Rogaine ® 5 % MINOXIDIL TOPICAL AEROSOL HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT REACTIVATES HAIR FOLLICLES TO STIMULATE REGROWTH EASY - TO - USE FOAM CLINICALLY PROVEN TO HELP REGROW HAIR UNSCENTED Not For Use By Women Three Month Supply • Three 60 g ( 2 . 11 oz ) Cans [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
