TYLENOL ® Extra Strength Caplets Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each caplet ) Acetaminophen 500 mg Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to : • the common cold • headache • backache • minor pain of arthritis • toothache • muscular aches • premenstrual and menstrual cramps • temporarily reduces fever Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 4 , 000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert : acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • new symptoms occur • redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions • do not take more than directed ( see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over • take 2 caplets every 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours , unless directed by a doctor • do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not use if pouch is torn or damaged Inactive ingredients carnauba wax [ 1 ] , corn starch null , FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , modified starch null , polyethylene glycol null , powdered cellulose , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , shellac , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide [ 1 ] contains one or more of these ingredients Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 877 - 895 - 3665 ( toll - free ) or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) BENADRYL ® Extra Strength Itch Stopping Cream Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Diphenhydramine hydrochloride 2 % Topical analgesic Zinc acetate 0 . 1 % Skin protectant Uses • temporarily relieves pain and itching associated with : • insect bites • minor burns • sunburn • minor skin irritations • minor cuts • scrapes • rashes due to poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac • dries the oozing and weeping of poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac Warnings For external use only Do not use • on large areas of the body • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one taken by mouth Ask a doctor before use • on chicken pox • on measles When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not use more than directed • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect from excessive heat ( 40 ° C / 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol monostearate 1000 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water Questions ?
call toll - free 800 - 524 - 2624 ( English / Spanish ) or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) NEOSPORIN ® + PAIN RELIEF First Aid Antibiotic / Pain Relieving Cream Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Purpose Neomycin Sulfate ( 3 . 5 mg ) First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B Sulfate ( 10 , 000 units ) First aid antibiotic Pramoxine HCl ( 10 mg ) External analgesic Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain in minor : • cuts • scrapes • burns Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • symptoms persist for more than 1 week , or clear up and occur again within a few days • rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Centre right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Water , Emulsifying Wax , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Propylene Glycol , Methylparaben , Sulfuric acid , Sodium Hydroxide Questions ?
call 800 - 223 - 0182 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Package Label Johnson & Johnson ® ALL - PURPOSE FIRST AID KIT OUTDOORS ON - THE - GO AT HOME INCLUDES $ 20 VALUE 5 FULL - SIZE ITEMS CUTS & SCRAPES MINOR BURNS ITCH RELIEF PAIN RELIEF SKIN RASHES INSECT BITES 140 ITEMS SEE BACK PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
