Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
• avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cleanse skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information Keep tightly closed .
Protect from excessive heat ( 40 ° C / 104 ° F ) and protect from freezing .
Inactive ingredients Water , Carbomer Homopolymer Type B , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Sodium Hydroxide , Laureth - 4 , Disodium EDTA Questions ?
Call toll - free 877 - 754 - 6411 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) or visit www . CleanandClear . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Clean & Clear ® persa - gel ® 10 10 % benzoyl peroxide acne medication MAXIMUM STRENGTH The only acne product prescribed by doctors for over 10 years , available without a prescription Johnson & Johnson NET WT .
1 OZ .
( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
