Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• if eye contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Cleanse skin thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other information Sunburn Alert This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product and for a week afterwards .
Store at Room Temperature .
Inactive ingredients water , alcohol denat . , butylene glycol , PPG - 5 - ceteth - 20 , C12 - 15 alkyl lactate , sodium citrate , fragrance , cocamidopropyl PG - dimonium chloride phosphate , PEG / PPG - 20 / 6 dimethicone , cetyl lactate , benzalkonium chloride , sodium benzotriazolyl butylphenol sulfonate , disodium EDTA , sodium hydroxide , glycolic acid , yellow 6 , red 40 Questions ?
Call toll free 800 - 582 - 4048 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 236 mL Bottle Label NEUTORGENA Rapid Clear ® 2 - in - 1 Fight & Fade Toner MICRO CLEAR ® technology FIGHTS breakouts in under 8 hours FADES the look of post - acne marks Neutrogena ® salicylic acid acne treatment 8 FL .
OZ .
( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
