Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone ( 3 % ) , Homosalate ( 10 % ) , Octisalate ( 5 % ) , Octocrylene ( 10 % ) Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
In case of ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a physician .
Inactive ingredients Bisabolol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Oil , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Fragrance , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Octyldodecanol , Passiflora Edulis ( Passionfruit ) Seed Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Sclerocarya Birrea ( Marula ) Seed Oil , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , Vitis Vinifera ( Chardonnay Grape ) Seed Oil , VP / Hexadecene Copolymer Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Distributed by Vacation Inc .
936 SW 1 st Ave # 888 , Miami , FL 33130 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 ML Bottle Label Vacation ® Chardonnay Oil BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 SUNSCREEN OIL Chardonnay Seed Sunscreen Oil by The Eternal Vacation ® of Miami " Clean , Lightweight & Refreshing " " For an Enviable Shine " SPF 30 3 . 4 FL OZ / 100 ML [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
