Description Glycopyrrolate tablets contain the synthetic anticholinergic , glycopyrrolate .
Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium compound with the following chemical name : 3 - [ ( cyclopentylhydroxyphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 - dimethylpyrrolidinium bromide .
Each glycopyrrolate tablet USP , intended for oral administration , contains glycopyrrolate equivalent to 1 mg or 2 mg .
In addition , it also contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous , povidone , sodium starch glycolate and magnesium stearate .
The structural formula of glycopyrrolate is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C 19 H 28 BrNO 3 Molecular Weight : 398 . 33 Each tablet contains 1 mg or 2 mg of Glycopyrrolate , USP .
Inactive Ingredients : Microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized starch , magnesium stearate [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sino - atrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands , and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus , it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g . , bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which are non - polar tertiary amines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus ; intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP are contraindicated in those patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate .
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur with the use of Glycopyrrolate .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Glycopyrrolate may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuro - muscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis .
Pregnancy The safety of this drug during pregnancy has not been established .
The use of any drug during pregnancy requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child .
Reproduction studies in rats revealed no teratogenic effects from glycopyrrolate ; however , the potent anticholinergic action of this agent resulted in diminished rates of conception and of survival at weaning , in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
Information on possible adverse effects in the pregnant female is limited to uncontrolled data derived from marketing experience .
Such experience has revealed no reports of teratogenic or other fetus - damaging potential .
No controlled studies to establish the safety of the drug in pregnancy have been performed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use Since there is no adequate experience in pediatric patients who have received this drug , safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established .
PRECAUTIONS Use glycopyrrolate with caution in the elderly and in all patients with : • Autonomic neuropathy .
• Hepatic or renal disease .
• Ulcerative colitis - large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and for this reason may precipitate or aggravate “ toxic megacolon , ” a serious complication of the disease .
• Hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac tachyarrhythmias , tachycardia , hypertension and prostatic hypertrophy .
• Hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis , since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate this condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics produce certain effects , most of which are extensions of their fundamental pharmacological actions .
Adverse reactions to anticholinergics in general may include xerostomia ; decreased sweating ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; dilatation of the pupil ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headaches ; nervousness ; mental confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations .
OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdosage of glycopyrrolate are peripheral in nature rather than central .
• To guard against further absorption of the drug - use gastric avage , cathartics and / or enemas .
• To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects ( residual mydriasis , dry mouth , etc . ) - utilize a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase , such as neostigmine methylsulfate .
• To combat hypotension - use pressor amines ( norepinephrine , metaraminol ) i . v . ; and supportive care .
• To combat respiratory depression - administer oxygen ; utilize a respiratory stimulant such as Dopram ® i . v . ; artificial respiration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg and 2 mg should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse reactions .
The presently recommended maximum daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg The recommended initial dosage of Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 1 mg for adults is one tablet three times daily ( in the morning , early afternoon , and at bedtime ) .
Some patients may require two tablets at bedtime to assure overnight control of symptoms .
For maintenance , a dosage of one tablet twice a day is frequently adequate .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 2 mg The recommended dosage of Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 2 mg for adults is one tablet two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals .
Glycopyrrolate tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years .
DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions .
HOW SUPPLIED Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP 2 mg are uncoated , round , flat face white tablets with beveled edges and debossed with “ 0476 ” on one side and bisected on the other .
NDC : 70518 - 3152 - 00 NDC : 70518 - 3152 - 01 PACKAGING : 100 in 1 BOX PACKAGING : 1 in 1 POUCH Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
Dispense in tight container .
Rx only Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : GLYCOPYRROLATE GENERIC : GLYCOPYRROLATE DOSAGE : TABLET ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 3152 - 0 NDC : 70518 - 3152 - 1 COLOR : white SHAPE : ROUND SCORE : Two even pieces SIZE : 10 mm IMPRINT : 0476 PACKAGING : 1 in 1 POUCH OUTER PACKAGING : 100 in 1 BOX ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • GLYCOPYRROLATE 2 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • CELLULOSE , MICROCRYSTALLINE • LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE • STARCH , PREGELATINIZED CORN • MAGNESIUM STEARATE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
