These highlights do not include all the information needed to use CALCIUM GLUCONATE INJECTION safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for CALCIUM GLUCONATE INJECTION . CALCIUM GLUCONATE injection , for intravenous use .
Initial U . S . Approval : 1941 INDICATIONS AND USAGE These highlights do not include all the information needed to use CALCIUM GLUCONATE INJECTION safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for CALCIUM GLUCONATE INJECTION . CALCIUM GLUCONATE injection , for intravenous use Initial U . S . Approval : 1941 Calcium Gluconate Injection is indicationd for pediatric and adult patients for the treatment of acute symptomatic hypocalcemia .
Limitations of Use The safety of Calcium Gluconate Injection for long term use has not been established .
• Calcium Gluconate Injection is a form of calcium indicated for pediatric and adult patients for the treatment of acute symptomatic hypocalcemia .
( 1 ) • Limitations of Use : The safety of Calcium Gluconate Injection for long term use has not been established .
( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Calcium Gluconate Injection contains 100 mg of calcium gluconate per mL which contains 9 . 3 mg ( i . e . , 0 . 465 mEq ) of elemental calcium .
• Dilute Calcium Gluconate Injection prior to use in 5 % dextrose or normal saline and assess for potential drug or IV fluid incompatibilities [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
• Inspect Calcium Gluconate Injection visually prior to administration .
The solution should appear clear and colorless to slightly yellow .
Do not administer if there is particulate matter or discoloration .
• Use the diluted solution immediately after preparation .
• Administer Calcium Gluconate Injection intravenously via a secure intravenous line to avoid calcinosis cutis and tissue necrosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Administer Calcium Gluconate Injection by bolus administration nor continuous infusion : For bolus intravenous administration : • Dilute the dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] of Calcium Gluconate Injection in 5 % dextrose or normal saline to a concentration 10 - 50 mg / mL prior to administration .
Administer the dose slowly and DO NOT exceed an infustion rate of 200 mg / minute in adults or 100 mg / minute in pediatric patients , including neonates .
Monitor patients , vitals and electrocardiograph ( ECG ) during administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
For continuous intravenous infusion : • Dilute Calcium Gluconate Injection in 5 % dextrose or normal saline to a concentration of 5 . 8 - 10 mg / mL prior to administration .
Administer at the rate recommended in Table 1 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] and monitor patients , vitals , calcium and ECG during the infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Calcium Gluconate Injection is supplied in single - dose vials and pharmacy bulk packages [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage Individualize the dose of Calcium Gluconate Injection within the recommended range depending on the severity of symptoms of hypocalcemia , the serum clacium level , and the acuity of onset of hypocalcemia .
Table 1 provides dosing recommendations for Calcium Gluconate Injection in mg of calcium gluconate for neonates , pediatric and adult patients .
Table 1 .
Dosing Recommendations in mg of Calcium Gluconate for Neonate , Pediatric , and Adult Patients [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Serum Calcium Monitoring Measure serum calcium every 4 to 6 hours during intermittent infusions with Calcium Gluconate Injection and measure serum calcium every 1 to 4 hours during continuous infusion .
2 . 4 Dosage in Renal Impairment For patients with renal impairment , initiate Calcium Gluconate Injection at the lowest dose of the recommended dose ranges for all age groups and monitor serum calcium levels every 4 hours .
2 . 5 Drug Incompatibilities • Do not mix Calcium Gluconate Injection with ceftriaxone .
Concurrent use of intravenous ceftriaxone and Calcium Gluconate Injection can lead to the formation of ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates .
Concomitant use of ceftriaxone and intravenous calcium - containing products is contraindicated in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
In patients older than 28 days of age , ceftriaxone and calcium - containing products may be administered sequentially , provided the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid .
Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with intravenous calcium - containing solutions via a Y - site in any age group [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• Do not mix Calcium Gluconate Injection with fluids containing bicarbonate or phosphate .
Calcium Gluconate Injection is not physically compatible with fluids containing phosphate or bicarbonate .
Precipitation may result if mixed .
• Do not mix Calcium Gluconate Injection with minocycline injection .
Calcium complexes minocycline rendering it inactive .
2 . 6 Preparation of Pharmacy Bulk Package The pharmacy bulk package ( PBP ) of Calcium Gluconate Injection is intended for dispensing of single doses to multiple patients in a pharmacy admixture program .
Penetrate the container closure only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Use the PBP only in a suitable ISO Class 5 work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
Complete dispensing from the pharmacy bulk vial within 4 hours after the container closure is penetrated .
Each dose dispensed from the Pharmacy Bulk Package vial must be used immediately .
• Contains 100 mg of calcium gluconate per mL which contains 9 . 3 mg ( 0 . 4665 mEq ) of elemental calcium ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer intravenously ( bolus or continuous infusion ) via a secure intravenous line ( 2 . 1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information ( FPI ) for dilution instructions , administration rates , and appropriate monitoring ( 2 . 1 ) • Individualize the dose within the recommended range in adults and pediatrics patients depending on the severity of symptoms of hypocalcemia .
See Table1 in the FPI for dosing recommendations in mg of calcium gluconate for neonates , pediatric and adult patients .
( 2 . 2 ) • Measure serum calcium during intermittent infusions every 4 to 6 hours and during continuous infusion every 1 to 4 hours .
( 2 . 3 ) • Calcium Gluconate Injection is not physically compatible with fluids containing phosphate or bicarbonate .
Precipitation may result if mixed .
See FPI for all drug incompatibilities .
( 2 . 5 ) • Supplied in a single - dose vial or pharmacy bulk package ( PBP ) .
For PBP , dispense single doses to many patients in a pharmacy admixture program ; use within 4 hours of puncture .
( 2 . 6 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow , solution avaialbe in the following : • Single - dose vial : 1 , 000 mg per 10 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) • Single - dose vial : 5 , 000 mg per 50 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) • Pharmacy bulk package : 10 , 000 mg per 10 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) Each mL of Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP contains 9 . 3 mg ( 0 . 465 mEq ) of elemental calcium .
Injection : ( 3 ) • Single - dose vial : 1 , 000 mg per 10 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) • Single - dose vial : 5 , 000 mg per 50 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) • Pharmacy bulk package : 10 , 000 mg per 100 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Calcium Gluconate Injection is contraindicated in : • Hypercalcemia • Neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) receiving ceftriaxone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypercalcemia ( 4 ) • Neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) receiving ceftriaxone ( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Arrhythmias with Concomitant Cardiac Glycoside Use Cardiac arrhythmias may occur if calcium and cardiac glycosides are administered together .
Hyperclacemia increases the risk of digoxin toxicity .
Adminsitration of Calcium Gluconate Injection should be avoided in patients receiving cardiac glycosides .
If concomitant therapy is necessary , Calcium Gluconate Injection should be given slowly in small amounts and with close ECG monitoring [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 End - Organ Damage due to Intravascular Ceftriaxone - Calcium Precipitates Concomitant use of ceftriaxone and Calcium Gluconate Injection is contraindicated in neonates ( 28 days of ane or younger ) due to cases of fatal outcomes in neonates in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy after ceftriaxone and calcium were administrated simultaneously through the same intravenous line .
Concomitant administration can lead to the formation of ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates that may act as emboli , resulting in vascular spasm or infarction [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
In patients older than 28 days of age , ceftriaxone and Calcium Gluconate Injection may be administered sequentially , provided the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid .
Do not administer Ceftriaxone simultaneously with Calcium Gluconate Injection via a Y - site in any age group .
5 . 3 Tissue Necrosis and Calcinosis Intravenous administration of Calcium Gluconate Injection and local trauma may result in calcinosis cutis due to transient increase in local calcium concentration .
Calcinosis cutis can occur with or without extravasation of Calcium Gluconate Injection , is characterized by abnormal dermal deposits of calcium salts , and clinically manifests as papules , plaques , or nodules that may be associated with erythema , sweling , or induration .
Tissue necrosis , ulceration , and secondary infection are the most serious complications .
If extravasation occurs or clinical manifestations of calcinosis cutis are noted , immediately discontinue intravenous administration at that site and treat as needed .
5 . 4 Hypotension , Bradycardia , and Cardiac Arrhythmias with Rapid Administration Rapid injection of Calcium Gluconate Injection may cause vasodilation , decreased blood pressure , bradycardia , cardiac arrhythmias , syncope and cardiac arrest .
To avoid adverse reactions that may follow rapid intravenous administration , Calcium Gluconate Injection should be diluted with 5 % dextrose or normal saline and infused slowly .
If rapid intravenous bolus of Calcium Gluconate Injection is required , the rate of intravenous administration should not exceed 200 mg / minute in adults and 100 mg / minute in pediatric patients and ECG monitoring during administration is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Aluminum Toxicity Calcium Gluconate Injection contains contains aluminum , up to 400 mcg per liter , that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 mcg / kg / day to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
• Arrhythmias with Concomitant Cardiac Glycoside Use : If concomitant therapy is necessary , Calcium Gluconate Injection should be given slowly in small amounts and close ECG monitoring is recommended ( 5 . 1 ) • End - Organ Damage due to Intravascular Ceftriaxone - Calcium Precipitates : Concurrent use of intravenous ceftriaxone may cause life - threatening precipitates .
Cases of fatal outcomes in neonates have occurred .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Tissue Necrosis and Calcinosis : Calcinosis cutis can occur with or without extravasation of Calcium Gluconate Injection .
Tissue necrosis , ulceration , and secondary infection are the most serious complications .
If extravasation occurs or clinical manifestations of calcinosis cutis are noted , immediately discontinue intravenous administration at that site and treat as needed .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypotension , Bradycardia , and Cardiac Arrhythmias with Rapid Administration : To avoid adverse reactions that may follow rapid intravenous administration , Calcium Gluconate Injection should be diluted with 5 % dextrose or normal saline and infused slowly , with careful ECG monitoring for cardiac arrhythmias .
( 5 . 4 ) • Aluminum Toxicity : This product contains aluminum , up to 400 mcg per liter , that may be toxic .
( 5 . 5 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are also described elsewhere in the labeling : • Arrhythmias with Concomitant Cardiac Glycoside Use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • End - Organ Damage due to Intravascular Ceftriaxone - Calcium Precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Tissue Necrosis and Calcinosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypotension , Bradycardia , and Cardiac Arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of calcium gluconate were identified in the literature .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : Vasodilation , decreased blood pressure , bradycardia , cardiac arrhythmia , syncope , cardiac arrest Administration site reactions : Local soft tissue inflammation , local necrosis , calcinosis cutis and calcification due to extravasation The most common adverse events with Calcium Gluconate Injection are local soft tissue inflammation and necrosis , calcinosis cutis and calcification that are related to extravasation .
Other adverse events include vasodilation , decreased blood pressure , bradycardia , cardiac arrhythmia , syncope , and cardiac arrest .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Cardiac Glycosides Hypercalcemia increases the risk of digoxin toxicity , while digoxin may be therapeutically ineffective in the presence of hypocalcemia .
Synergistic arrhythmias may occur if calcium and cardiac glycosides are administered together .
Avoid administration of Calcium Gluconate Injection in patients receiving cardiac glycosides ; if considered necessary , administer Calcium Gluconate injection slowly in small amounts and monitor ECG closely during administration .
7 . 2 Calcium Channel Blockers Administration of calcium may reduce the response to calcium channel blockers .
7 . 3 Drugs that may cause Hypercalcemia Vitamin D , vitamin A , thiazide diuretics , estrogen , calcipotriene and teriparatide administration may cause hypercalcemia .
Monitor plasma calcium concentrations in patients taking these drugs concurrently .
• Cardiac Glycoside : Synergistic arrhythmias may occur if calcium and cardiac glycosides are administered together .
( 7 . 1 ) • Calcium Channel Blockers : Administration of calcium may reduce the response .
( 7 . 2 ) • Drugs that may cause hypercalcemia : Vitamin D , vitamin A , thiazide diuretics , estrogen , calcipotriene and teriparatide administration may cause hypercalcemia .
Monitor plasma calcium concentrations in patients taking these drugs concurrently .
( 7 . 3 ) USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk summary Limited available data with Calcium Gluconate Injection use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and the fetus associated with hypocalcemia in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal risk Maternal hypocalcemia can result in an increased rate of spontaneous abortion , premature and dysfunctional labor , and possibly preeclampsia .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Infants born to mothers with hypocalcemia can have associated fetal and neonatal hyperparathyroidism , which in turn can cause fetal and neonatal skeletal demineralization , subperiosteal bone resorption , osteitis fibrosa cystica and neonatal seizures .
Infants born to mothers with hypocalcemia should be carefully monitored for signs of hypocalcemia or hypercalcemia , including neuromuscular irritability , apnea , cyanosis and cardiac rhythm disorders .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary Calcium is present in human milk as a natural component of human milk .
It is not known whether intravenous administration of Calcium Gluconate Injection can alter calcium concentration in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of Calcium Gluconate Injection on the breastfed infant , or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Calcium Gluconate Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Calcium Gluconate Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Calcium Gluconate Injection have been established in pediatric patients for the treatment of acute , symptomatic hypocalcemia .
Pediatric approval for Calcium Gluconate Injection , including doses , is not based on adequate and well - controlled clinical studies .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients are based on published literature and clinical experience [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) .
Concomitant use of ceftriaxone and Calcium Gluconate Injection is contraindicated in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) due to reports of fatal outcomes associated with the presence of lung and kidney ceftriaxone - calcium precitpiates .
In patients older than 28 days of age , ceftriaxone and Calcium Gluconate Injection may be administered sequentially , provided the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
This product contains up to 400 mcg / mL aluminum which may be toxic , particularly for premature neonates due to immature renal function .
parenteral administration of aluminum greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day is associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general dose selection for an elderly patient should start at the lowest dose of the recommended dose range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or oether drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment For patients with renal impairment , initiate Calcium Gluconate Injection at the loest dose of the recommended dose ranges across all age groups .
Monitor serum calcium levels every 4 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Hepatic function does not impact the availability of ionized calcium after clacium gluconate intravenous administration .
Dose adjustment in hepatically imapired patients may not be necessary .
• Geriatric use : Dosing in elderly patietns should be cautions , usually starting at the low end of the dosage range .
( 8 . 5 ) • Renal impairment : Initiate with the lower limit of the dosage range and monitor serum calcium levels every 4 hours .
( 8 . 6 , 2 . 4 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Revised : 7 / 2018 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of Calcium Gluconate Injection may result in hypercalcemia .
Symptoms of hypercalcemia typically develop when the total serum calcium concentration is ≥ 12 mg / dL .
Neurologic symptoms include depression , weakness , fatigue , and confusion at lower levels , with patients experiencing hallucinations , disorientation , hypotonicity , seizures , and coma .
Effects on the kidney include diminished ability to concentrate urine and diuresis .
If overdose of Calcium Gluconate Injection occurs immediately discontinue administration and provide supportive treatments to restore intravascular volume as well as promote calcium excretion in the urine if necessary .
DESCRIPTION Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP is a sterile , preservative - free , nonpyrogenic , supersaturated solution of calcium gluconate , a form of calcium , for intravenous use .
Calcium Gluconate is calcium D - gluconate ( 1 : 2 ) monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C12H22CaO14 • H2O Molecular weight : 448 . 39 Solubility in water : 3 . 5 g / 100 mL at 25 ° C Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP is available as 1 , 000 mg per 10 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) or 5 , 000 mg per 50 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) in a single - dose vial , or 10 , 000 mg per 100 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) in a pharmacy bulk package .
Each mL of Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP contains 100 mg of calcium gluconate ( equivalent to 94 mg of calcium gluconate and 4 . 5 mg of calcium saccharate tetrahydrate ) , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 2 ) and sterile water for injection , q . s .
It contains no antimicrobial agent .
Each mL of Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP contains 9 . 3 mg ( 0 . 465 mEq ) of elemental calcium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Intravenous administration of calcium gluconate increases serum ionized calcium level .
Calcium gluconate dissociates into ionized calcium in plasma .
Ionized calcium and gluconate are normal constituents of body fluids .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Calcium Gluconate Injection is 100 % bioavailable following intravenous injection .
Metabolism Calcium iteself does not undergo direct metabolism .
The release of ionized calcium from intravenous administration of calcium gluconate is direct and does not seem to be affected by the first pass through the liver .
Distribution Calcium in the body is distributed mainly in skeleton ( 99 % ) .
Only 1 % of the total body calcium is distributed within the extracellular fluids and soft tissues .
About 50 % of total serum calcium is in the ionized form and represents the biologically active part .
8 % to 10 % serum calcium is bound to organic and inorganic acid and approximately 40 % is protein - bound ( primarily to ablumin ) .
Elimination Studies have shown a relationship between urinary calcium excretion and the intravenous administration of calcium gluconate , with a significant increase in urinary calcium excretion observed after the intravenous administration of calcium gluconate .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Calcium Gluconate Injection .
Calcium gluconate was not mutagenic with or without metabolic activation in the Ames test with Salmonella typhimurium ( strains TA - 1535 , TA - 1537 , and TA - 1538 ) or Saccharomyces cerevisiae ( Strain D4 ) .
Fertility studies in animals have not been conducted with calcium gluconate administered by the intravenous route .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Calcium Gluconate Injection , USP is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Preservative Free .
Discard any unused portion in the single - dose vial immediately or the Pharmacy Bulk Package vial within 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
Each dose dispensed from the Pharmacy Bulk Package vial must be used immediately .
The diluted solution must be used immediately .
NOTE : Supersaturated solutions are prone to precipitation .
The precipitate , if present , may be dissolved by warming the vial to 60 ° to 80 ° C , with occasional agitation , until the solution becomes clear .
Shake vigorously .
Allow to cool to room temperature before dispensing .
Use injection only if clear immediately prior to use .
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 63323 - 360 - 19 25 x 10 mL single dose vials NDC 0404 - 9831 - 10 1 10 mL single dose vial in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 63323 - 360 - 01 ) 1 , 000 mg calcium gluconate per 10 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) NDC 63323 - 360 - 59 25 x 50 mL single dose vials NDC 0404 - 9831 - 50 1 50 mL single dose vial in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 63323 - 360 - 03 ) 5 , 000 mg calcium gluconate per 50 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise the patient that the risks associated with infusion including local tissue inflammation , local necrosis and calcinosis .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451463 B Revised : July 2018 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
