Rx only DESCRIPTION Hydroxyzine hydrochloride is designated chemically as ( ± ) - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - Chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] ethoxy ] ethanol dihydrochloride .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients for Hydroxyzine Hydrochloride Oral Solution , USP ( Syrup ) are : alcohol 0 . 5 % ; liquid sugar ; methylparaben ; peppermint oil ; propylene glycol ; propylparaben ; purified water and spearmint oil .
It may also contain citric acid anhydrous or sodium citrate dihydrate for pH adjustment .
The pH range is between 2 . 0 and 4 . 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydroxyzine hydrochloride is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate , or the benzodiazepines .
Hydroxyzine is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydroxyzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
Hydroxyzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and its clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia , hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long term use , that is more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine hydrochloride products , and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetirizine hydrochloride .
Hydroxyzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit , induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
Hydroxyzine is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Keep out of the reach of children .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydroxyzine , their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydroxyzine .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effect of alcohol may be increased .
Geriatric Use A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydroxyzine included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydroxyzine has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and oversedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydroxyzine and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydroxyzine hydrochloride are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
You may also report side effects to Wockhardt USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 445 - 4290 .
Skin and Appendages : Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is associated with fixed drug eruptions in postmarketing reports .
Anticholinergic : Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System : Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of the dose .
Involuntary motor activity including rare instances of tremor and convulsions have been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of hydroxyzine overdosage is hypersedation .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and levarterenol , or metaraminol .
Do not use epinephrine as hydroxyzine counteracts its pressor action .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydroxyzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydroxyzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : in adults , 50 to 100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years , 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : in adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years , 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 to 100 mg in adults , and 0 . 6 mg / kg in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all medications , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ' s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyzine Hydrochloride Oral Solution , USP ( Syrup ) 10 mg per 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) is a colorless , peppermint - flavored syrup , supplied in 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) bottles .
NDC 63187 - 494 - 04 RECOMMENDED STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING PROTECT FROM LIGHT Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with child - resistant closure .
Rx Only Product No . : 8150 Manufactured For : Wockhardt USA , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Manufactured By : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 A50 - 8150 - 16 REV . 06 - 14 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Label MGP NDC 63187 - 494 - 04 HydrOXYzine Hydrochloride Oral Solution , USP ( Syrup ) 10 mg / 5 mL Alcohol 0 . 5 % ( v / v ) DO NOT USE IF INNER FOIL SEAL PRINTED " SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION " IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
This container not intended for household use .
Rx Only NET : 4 oz ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
