Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 15 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 10 % , Oxybenzone 3 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • ensure complete coverage to the area above the lip , nose , and tops of ears • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours .
• Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • After use , twist stick down prior to capping to ensure complete closure .
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , Polyethylene , Silica , Neopentyl Glycol Diethylhexanoate , Ozokerite , Paraffin , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Beeswax , Adipic Acid / Diglycol Crosspolymer , Neopentyl Glycol Diisostearate , Caprylyl Glycol , Fragrance , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Napthalate , BHT Questions ?
Call toll - free 800 - 299 - 4786 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) or visit www . neutrogena . com Dist .
by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 42 g Cylinder Label Neutrogena ® # 1 DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND Ultra Sheer ® face & body stick sunscreen BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 70 70 helioplex ® broad spectrum uva ∙ uvb water resistant ( 80 minutes ) NET WT 1 . 5 OZ ( 42 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
