Rx only PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ampicillin and other antibacterial drugs , Ampicillin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Ampicillin for Injection , USP the monosodium salt of [ 2 S - [ 2 a , 5 a , 6 b ( S * ) ] ] - 6 - [ ( aminophenylacetyl ) amino ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid , is a synthetic penicillin for intravenous use .
It is an antibacterial agent with a broad spectrum of bactericidal activity against both penicillin - susceptible Gram - positive organisms and many common Gram - negative pathogens .
Ampicillin for Injection , USP is a dry , white to off - white powder .
The solution after reconstitution is clear , colorless and free from visible particulates .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C16H18N3NaO4S , and the molecular weight is 371 . 39 .
The pH range of the reconstituted solution is 8 to 10 .
Ampicillin for Injection , USP contains 65 . 8 mg [ 2 . 9 mEq ] sodium per gram ampicillin .
Each Ampicillin for Injection , USP pharmacy bulk package bottle contains ampicillin sodium equivalent to 10 grams of ampicillin .
A pharmacy bulk package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents of this pharmacy bulk package are intended for use by a pharmacy admixture service for addition to suitable parenteral fluids in the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Directions for Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ampicillin for Injection , USP diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids .
However , penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid and brain occurs only when the meninges are inflamed .
Ampicillin is excreted largely unchanged in the urine and its excretion can be delayed by concurrent administration of probenecid .
Due to maturational changes in renal function , ampicillin half - life decreases as postmenstrual age ( a sum of gestational age and postnatal age ) increases for infants with postnatal age of less than 28 days .
The active form appears in the bile in higher concentrations than those found in serum .
Ampicillin is the least serum - bound of all the penicillins , averaging about 20 % compared to approximately 60 to 90 % for other penicillins .
Ampicillin for Injection , USP is well tolerated by most patients and has been given in doses of 2 grams daily for many weeks without adverse reactions .
Microbiology : While in vitro studies have demonstrated the susceptibility of most strains of the following organisms , clinical efficacy for infections other than those included in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section has not been demonstrated .
Antibacterial Activity The following bacteria have been shown in in vitro studies to be susceptible to Ampicillin for Injection , USP : Gram - positive Bacteria Hemolytic and nonhemolytic streptococci Streptococcus pneumoniae Nonpenicillinase - producing staphylococci Clostridium spp .
B . anthracis Listeria monocytogenes Most strains of enterococci .
Gram - negative Bacteria H . influenzae N . gonorrhoeae N . meningitidis Proteus mirabilis Many strains of Salmonella , Shigella , and E . coli .
AMPICILLIN does not resist destruction by penicillinase .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ampicillin for Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following conditions : Respiratory Tract Infections caused by S . pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , H . influenzae and Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci .
Bacterial Meningitis caused by E . coli , Group B Streptococci , and other Gram - negative bacteria ( Listeria monocytogenes , N . meningitidis ) .
The addition of an aminoglycoside with ampicillin may increase its effectiveness against Gram - negative bacteria .
Septicemia and Endocarditis caused by susceptible Gram - positive organisms including Streptococcus spp . , penicillin - G - susceptible staphylococci and enterococci .
Gram - negative sepsis caused by E . coli , Proteus mirabilis and Salmonella spp .
responds to ampicillin .
Endocarditis due to enterococcal strains usually respond to intravenous therapy .
The addition of an aminoglycoside may enhance the effectiveness of ampicillin when treating streptococcal endocarditis .
Urinary Tract Infections caused by sensitive strains of E . coli and Proteus mirabilis .
Gastrointestinal Infections caused by Salmonella typhi ( typhoid fever ) , other Salmonella spp .
and Shigella spp .
( dysentery ) usually respond to oral or intravenous therapy .
Bacteriology studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to ampicillin should be performed .
Therapy may be instituted prior to obtaining results of susceptibilty testing .
It is advisable to reserve the parenteral form of this drug for moderately severe and severe infections and for patients who are unable to take the oral forms .
A change to oral ampicillin may be made as soon as appropriate .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ampicillin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Ampicillin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of a previous hypersensitivity reaction to any of the penicillins is a contraindication .
WARNINGS Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactoid ) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following parenteral therapy , it has occurred in patients on oral penicillins .
These reactions are more apt to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
There have been well - documented reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity reactions who have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with a cephalosporin .
Before initiating therapy with a penicillin , careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , and other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTOID REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE , OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Ampicillin for Injection , USP , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General The possibility of superinfections with mycotic organisms or bacterial pathogens should be kept in mind during therapy .
In such cases , discontinue the drug and substitute appropriate treatment .
A high percentage ( 43 to 100 percent ) of patients with infectious mononucleosis who receive ampicillin develop a skin rash .
Typically , the rash appears 7 to 10 days after the start of oral ampicillin therapy and remains for a few days to a week after the drug is discontinued .
In most cases , the rash is maculopapular , pruritic and generalized .
Therefore , the administration of ampicillin is not recommended in patients with mononucleosis .
It is not known whether these patients are truly allergic to ampicillin .
Prescribing Ampicillin for Injection , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Ampicillin for Injection , USP should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Ampicillin for Injection , USP is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Ampicillin for Injection , USP or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests As with any potent drug , periodic assessment of organ system function , including renal , hepatic and hematopoietic , should be made during prolonged therapy .
Transient elevation of serum transaminase has been observed following administration of ampicillin .
The significance of this finding is not known .
Drug Interactions The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of skin rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions With high urine concentrations of ampicillin , false - positive glucose reactions may occur if Clinitest , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution are used .
Therefore , it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( such as Clinistix or Tes - Tape ) be used .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been conducted with this drug .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in laboratory animals at doses several times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of adverse effects due to ampicillin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Oral ampicillin - class antibacterials are poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pigs showed that intravenous administration of ampicillin slightly decreased the uterine tone and frequency of contractions , but moderately increased the height and duration of contractions .
However , it is not known whether use of these drugs in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
Nursing Mothers Ampicillin is excreted in trace amounts in human milk .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when ampicillin - class antibacterials are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Guidelines for the administration of these drugs to children , including neonates are presented in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS As with other penicillins , it may be expected that untoward reactions will be essentially limited to sensitivity phenomena .
They are more likely to occur in individuals who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to penicillins and in those with a history of allergy , asthma , hay fever or urticaria .
The following adverse reactions have been reported as associated with the use of ampicillin : Gastrointestinal Glossitis , stomatitis , black “ hairy ” tongue , nausea , vomiting , enterocolitis , pseudomembranous colitis , and diarrhea .
( These reactions are usually associated with oral dosage forms . )
Hypersensitivity Reactions Skin rashes and urticaria have been reported frequently .
A few cases of exfoliative dermatitis and erythema multiforme have been reported .
Anaphylaxis is the most serious reaction experienced and has usually been associated with the parenteral dosage form .
Note : Urticaria , other skin rashes , and serum sickness - like reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and , if necessary , systemic corticosteroids .
Whenever such reactions occur , ampicillin should be discontinued , unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening and amenable only to ampicillin therapy .
Serious anaphylactic reactions require the immediate use of epinephrine , oxygen , and intravenous steroids .
Liver A moderate rise in serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( SGOT ) has been noted , particularly in infants , but the significance of this finding is unknown .
Mild transitory SGOT elevations have been observed in individuals receiving larger ( two to four times ) than usual and oft - repeated intramuscular injections .
Evidence indicates that glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( GOT ) is released at the site of intramuscular injection of Ampicillin for Injection and that the presence of increased amounts of this enzyme in the blood does not necessarily indicate liver involvement .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems Anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with the penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
Central Nervous System Seizures OVERDOSAGE In cases of overdose , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures as required .
In patients with renal function impairment , ampicillin - class antibacterials can be removed by hemodialysis but not peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This insert is for the Pharmacy Bulk Package and is intended for preparing IV admixtures only .
Dosage recommendations for intramuscular or direct intravenous injection are for informational purposes only .
Infections of the respiratory tract and soft tissues .
Patients weighing 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) or more : 250 to 500 mg every 6 hours .
Patients weighing less than 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) : 25 to 50 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses at 6 - to 8 - hour intervals .
Infections of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts ( including those caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae in females ) .
Patients weighing 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) or more : 500 mg every 6 hours .
Patients weighing less than 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) : 50 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses at 6 - to 8 - hour intervals .
In the treatment of chronic urinary tract and intestinal infections , frequent bacteriological and clinical appraisal is necessary .
Smaller doses than those recommended above should not be used .
Higher doses should be used for stubborn or severe infections .
In stubborn infections , therapy may be required for several weeks .
It may be necessary to continue clinical and / or bacteriological follow - up for several months after cessation of therapy .
Urethritis in males due to N . gonorrhoeae : Adults : Two doses of 500 mg each at an interval of 8 to 12 hours .
Treatment may be repeated if necessary or extended if required .
In the treatment of complications of gonorrheal urethritis , such as prostatitis and epididymitis , prolonged and intensive therapy is recommended .
Cases of gonorrhea with a suspected primary lesion of syphilis should have darkfield examinations before receiving treatment .
In all other cases where concomitant syphilis is suspected , monthly serological tests should be made for a minimum of four months .
The doses for the preceding infections may be given by either the intramuscular or intravenous route .
A change to oral ampicillin may be made when appropriate .
Bacterial Meningitis .
Adults and children : 150 to 200 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 3 to 4 hours .
( Treatment may be initiated with intravenous drip therapy and continued with intramuscular injections . )
The doses for other infections may be given by either the intravenous or intramuscular route .
Neonates ( less than or equal to 28 days of postnatal age ) : Dosage should be based on Gestational age and Postnatal age according to Table 1 .
• Table 1 : Dosage in Neonates ( less than or equal to 28 days of postnatal age ) for Bacterial Meningitis and Septicemia Gestational age ( weeks ) Postnatal age ( days ) Dosage less than or equal to 34 less than or equal to 34 greater than 34 less than or equal to 7 greater than or equal to 8 and less than 28 less than or equal to 28 100 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 12 hours 150 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 12 hours 150 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 8 hours Septicemia .
Adults and children : 150 to 200 mg / kg / day .
Start with intravenous administration for at least three days and continue with the intramuscular route every 3 to 4 hours .
Neonates ( less than or equal to 28 days of postnatal age ) : Dosage should be based on Gestational age and Postnatal age according to Table 1 ( above ) .
Treatment of all infections should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
A minimum of 10 - days treatment is recommended for any infection caused by Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci to help prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever or acute glomerulonephritis .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE For Administration by Intravenous Infusion Reconstitute as directed below ( Directions for Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package ) prior to diluting with an intravenous solution .
IMPORTANT : This chemical stability information in no way indicates that it would be acceptable practice to use this product well after the preparation time .
Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible .
Stability studies on ampicillin sodium at several concentrations in various intravenous solutions indicate the drug will lose less than 10 % activity at the temperatures noted for the time periods stated .
Room Temperature ( 25 ° C ) Diluent Concentrations Stability Periods Sterile Water for Injection up to 30 mg / mL 8 hours 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 30 mg / mL 8 hours 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 10 to 20 mg / mL 1 hour 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP up to 2 mg / mL 2 hours 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 2 mg / mL 2 hours Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP up to 30 mg / mL 8 hours Refrigerated ( 4 ° C ) Sterile Water for Injection 30 mg / mL 48 hours Sterile Water for Injection up to 20 mg / mL 72 hours 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 30 mg / mL 24 hours 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 20 mg / mL 48 hours Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP up to 30 mg / mL 24 hours 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP up to 20 mg / mL 1 hour 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 10 mg / mL 1 hour Only those solutions listed above should be used for the intravenous infusion of Ampicillin for Injection , USP .
The concentrations should fall within the range specified .
The drug concentration and the rate and volume of the infusion should be adjusted so that the total dose of Ampicillin for Injection , USP is administered before the drug loses its stability in the solution in use .
Directions for Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package This Pharmacy Bulk Package glass bottle contains ampicillin sodium equivalent to 10 grams of ampicillin .
It is designed for use in the pharmacy in preparing IV admixtures using aseptic technique in a laminar flow hood .
a ) Add 94 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
The resulting soluton will contain 100 milligrams ampicillin activity per mL , and is stable up to ONE HOUR at room temperature .
b ) Dilute further within ONE HOUR to a concentration of 5 mg to 10 mg per mL .
See TABLE for suitable fluid .
Use promptly .
This chemical stability information in no way indicates that it would be acceptable practice to use this product well after the preparation time .
Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible .
c ) Using aseptic technique under a laminar flow hood , the closure should be penetrated only one time after reconstitution using a suitable sterile dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage .
d ) After entry , use entire contents of Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle promptly .
The entire contents of the Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle must be dispensed within ONE HOUR of reconstitution .
This time limit should begin with the introduction of solvent or diluent into the Pharmacy Bulk Package Bottle .
e ) The hanger label on the Pharmacy Bulk Package provides a suitable hanging device while dispensing contents .
If the Pharmacy Bulk Package does not have a hanger label , a plastic bail band will provide a suitable hanging device .
Use of this product is restricted to a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
CAUTION : Not to be dispensed as a unit .
HOW SUPPLIED Ampicillin for Injection , USP Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle , containing ampicillin sodium equivalent to 10 grams ampicillin per bottle is supplied as follows : NDC 44567 - 104 - 01 10 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package Carton of 1 Ampicillin for Injection , USP dry powder should be stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact WG Critical Care , LLC at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4708 or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Clinitest is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
Clinistix is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
Tes - Tape is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly Company .
Manufactured for : WG Critical Care , LLC Paramus , NJ 07652 Made in Italy Revised May 2019 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 44567 - 104 - 01 Ampicillin for Injection , USP Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion 10 grams per Pharmacy Bulk Package For Intravenous Use * NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
