Drug Facts Active Ingredients Octocrylene 5 . 0 % Octisalate 3 . 0 % Avobenzone 2 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product : • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • do not spray directly on face - spray into hands and apply to face • hold approximately 4 - 6 inches from skin to spray • rub into skin evenly to ensure appropriate coverage • use in a well - ventilated area • avoid inhaling or exposing others to spray • do not apply in windy conditions • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients sd alcohol 40 - b , deionized water , lauryl lactate , cyclopentasiloxane , c12 - 15 alcohols benzoate , acrylates octylacrylamide copolymer , octyldodecyl neopentanoate , octyl dodecyl citrate crosspolymer , phenethyl benzoate , and fragrance .
Other Information • protect this product from excessive cold , heat , and direct sun .
• store at temp below 90º F and avoid long term storage • may stain fabrics or surfaces Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 368 - 7327 Principal Display Panel - Bottle Label 180 ml NDC 52854 - 538 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
