Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 1 . 5 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 3 % , Oxybenzone 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For sunscreen use : • apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply atleast every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients water , glycolic acid , dicaprylyl maleate , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , stearic acid , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , glyceryl stearate , sodium hydroxide , phenoxyethanol , sclerotium gum , tocopheryl acetate , caprylyl glycol , fragrance , xanthan gum , methylparaben , panthenol , bisabolol , propylparaben , tetrasodium EDTA , ascorbic acid Questions ?
call toll - free 800 - 582 - 4048 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) ; www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 73 mL Bottle Carton NEUTROGENA ® Healthy Skin ® face lotion with sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Renewing Moisturizer with Multi - Vitamins and Alpha - Hydroxy Clinically proven to : • Soften and smooth rough , uneven skin • Improve skin radiance and clarity Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED 2 . 5 FL .
OZ .
( 73 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
