Active ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • provides temporary relief of local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporary relief of irritation and burning .
• aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions adults : • cleane the affected area with mild soap and warm water , and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue prior to applying .
• apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement • dispose of pad in thrash after use and wash hands , do not flush children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other Information • store at room temperature 15 - 30 oC ( 59 - 86 oF ) • for use as a moist compress - if necessary , ﬁrst cleanse the area and place wipe in contact with irritated area for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for up to 15 minutes and repeat as needed but not to exceed directions for use .
Inactive ingredients Water , Alcohol , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Aloe , Decyl Glucoside , Potassium Sorbate , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Benzoate , Citric Acid .
Questions or Comments ?
( 800 ) 320 - 6603 Principal Display Panel LEADER TM NDC 70000 - 0364 - 1 Medicated Hemorrhoidal Pads WITCH HAZEL , 50 % | Astringent Provides Immediate Relief from Itching and Burning Caused by Hemorrhoids Witch Hazel to Soothe and Protect Irritated Areas COMPARE TO TUCKS ® MEDICATED COOLING PADS active ingredient * 100 % Money Back Guarantee 100 PADS * This product is not manufactured or distributed by McNEIL - PPC , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Tucks ® Medicated Cooling Pads .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
