Active Ingredient Active Ingredient Purpose Miconazol 2 % Antifungal Purpose Uses For external treatment of fungal infections such as athlete ’ s foot , jock itch , sweat rash , infected diaper rash and fungal infections affecting the skin folds e . g . armpits , groin , or under the breasts .
Warnings For external use only .
Consult a doctor or pharmacist before using this product if you : ■ Are sensitive to the listed ingredients or any similar medications ■ Are pregnant , planning a pregnancy or breastfeeding When using this product : You may occasionally experience some side effects .
These are rare and consist of local skin irritation or rashes , which occur if you are unusually sensitive to the ingredients listed .
Do Not Use Do not use : ■ if you are sensitive to any of the active or inactive ingredients listed ■ if the infection is on your scalp or nails .
Cautions Please read this label carefully before use .
• Dynarex Antifungal Powder is not suitable for the treatment of fungal infections of the scalp or nails , and you should talk to your doctor or pharmacist for alternative treatments for these conditions .
In order to ensure successful treatment , it is important to use the powder regularly and to continue for at least 10 days after the disappearance of symptoms .
This prevents the infection from reoccurring .
• Remember that most fungal infections are very infectious and can easily be passed on to other family members .
In order to prevent this happening , it is important to ensure that anyone who has an infection avoids sharing clothes , towels , or shoes with other family members .
After applying the powder , wash and dry your hands thoroughly .
If your skin condition does not improve after one week ’ s use , please consult your doctor or pharmacist .
• If you forget to apply the powder , do not apply the missed dose , but apply the next dose as usual and continue as normal .
Do not apply two doses at the same time .
Interactions If you are taking oral anticoagulants ( drugs used to thin the blood , such as Warfarin ) , talk to your doctor or pharmacist before use .
Overdose Excessive use can result in skin irritation , which usually disappears after discontinuation of therapy .
In case of accidental ingestion of powder go to the hospital immediately .
Directions Sprinkle onto the affected area twice daily .
It can be safely applied to broken skin and may also be sprinkled onto clothes and footwear , which come into contact with the infected area .
Other information Keep the medicine in the original packaging in a dry place , at a temperature not exceeding 30ºC / 86ºF .
Protect from light .
Do not use after the expiry date shown on the pack .
Keep Out Of Reach Of Children Keep Out Of Reach Of Children Do not let the powder get into your eyes .
This product contains talc .
Do not breathe in the powder as this may cause irritation of the airways .
This is especially important for children and infants .
If swallowed , contact a poison control center immediately .
Inactive ingredients Colloidal silicon dioxide , talc .
Principal Display panel Dynarex Antifungal Powder 1236 AntiPowGP . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
