Active Ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporary relief of irritation and burning .
• aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • adult : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area .
• use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor • Dispose of wipe in trash .
• do not flush Other information • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • for vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting , or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• for use as moist compress - if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold wipe to desire size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Aloe , citric acid , Decyl Glucoside , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Sorbate , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Benzoate , Water .
Principal Display Panel NDC 50804 - 211 - 48 GOODSENSE Maximum Strength Medicated Wipes with Aloe Hemorrhoidal Wipes with Witch Hazel • Mild everyday wipes • Cools , Soothes and Cofmorts • Convenient , Easy to use , Flushable Wipes Compare to active ingredients of PREPARATION H Medicated Wipes 100 % satisfaction Guaranteed 48 Wipes 6 X 5 in .
( 15 . 2 X12 . 7 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
