Minoxidil 5 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment for men USE to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side on carton ) For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use if • You are a woman • Your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % topical solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children • Your scalp is red , inflammed , infected , irritated , or painful • You use other medicines on your scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• Some people have experienced change in hair color and / or texture .
• It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask doctor if • Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • Your hands or feet swell • Scalp irritation or redness occurs • Unwanted facial hair growth occurs • You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • Apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
• Using more or more often will not improve results .
• Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again .
OTHER INFORMATION • See hair loss pictures on side of this carton • Before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• Hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men • in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • Store at controlled room temperature 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or Comments ?
Toll Free : 800 - 249 - 4566 Visit Website at www . Peakbody . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
