Active Ingredients chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % w / v Isopropyl alcohol 70 % v / v Purposes Antiseptic Antiseptic Use for the preparation of the patient ’ s skin prior to surgery .
Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
• do not use with electrocautery procedures Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age . These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• maximal treatment area for one applicator is approximately 2 . 5 in .
x 2 . 5 in .
( 42 cm2 ) • remove applicator from package ; do not touch sponge • hold the applicator with the sponge down .
Pinch wings only once to activate the ampule and release the antiseptic .
• wet the sponge by pressing and releasing the sponge against the treatment area until liquid is visible on the skin • completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic • dry surgical sites ( e . g . , abdomen or arm ) : use gentle repeated back - and - forth strokes of the sponge for approximately 30 seconds .
Allow the area to air dry for approximately 30 seconds .
• moist surgical sites ( e . g . , inguinal fold ) : use gentle repeated back - and - forth strokes for approximately 2 minutes .
Allow the area to air dry for approximately 1 minute .
• do not blot or wipe away • discard the applicator after a single use along with any portion of the solution not required to cover the prep area .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available .
Other Information • store between 15 - 30 oC ( 59 - 86 oF ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 oC ( 104 oF ) Inactive Ingredient USP purified water Questions ?
www . chloraprep . com • call 1 - 800 - 523 - 0502 ( M - F 8 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST ) Inner Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Carton BD ChloraPrep Clear 1 mL Applicators 2 % w / v chlorhexidine gluconate ( CHG ) and 70 % v / v Isopropyl alcohol ( IPA ) Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation Sterile Solution Applicator is sterile if package is intact Store between 15 - 30 oC ( 59 - 86 oF ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 oC ( 104 oF ) 0 . 03 fl .
oz ( 1 mL ) each 60 Applicators NDC 54365 - 400 - 31 REF 930480 Not made with natural rubber latex Do not reuse STERILE EO STERILE SOLUTION External Use Only Professional Use Only CareFusion 213 LLC , El Paso , TX 79912 , subsidiary of Becton DIckinson and Co .
Made in the USA of US and imported parts .
www . bd . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
