WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including COTEMPLA XR - ODT , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including COTEMPLA XR - ODT , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE COTEMPLA XR - ODT is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age is 17 . 3 mg given orally once daily in the morning .
Dosage may be increased weekly in increments of 8 . 6 mg to 17 . 3 mg per day .
Daily dosage above 51 . 8 mg is not recommended .
( 2 . 2 ) • Patients are advised to take COTEMPLA XR - ODT consistently either with food or without food .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to initiating treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , and periodically re - evaluate the need for COTEMPLA XR - ODT use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
2 . 2 General Dosing Information COTEMPLA XR - ODT is given orally once daily in the morning .
Advise patients to take COTEMPLA XR - ODT consistently either with food or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The recommended starting dose of COTEMPLA XR - ODT for patients 6 to 17 years of age is 17 . 3 mg once daily in the morning .
The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 8 . 6 mg to 17 . 3 mg .
Daily doses above 51 . 8 mg have not been studied and are not recommended .
The dose should be individualized according to the needs and responses of the patient .
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of COTEMPLA XR - ODT and adjust dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur , reduce dosage , or , if necessary , discontinue the drug .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT should be periodically discontinued to assess the child ' s condition .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , discontinue the drug .
2 . 4 COTEMPLA XR - ODT Administration Instruct the patient or caregiver on the following administration instructions : • Do not remove the tablet from the blister pack until just prior to dosing .
Take the tablet immediately after opening the blister pack .
Do not store the tablet for future use .
• Use dry hands when opening the blister pack .
• Remove the tablet by peeling back the foil on the blister pack .
Do not push the tablet through the foil .
• As soon as the blister is opened , remove the tablet and place on the patient ' s tongue .
• Place the whole tablet on the tongue and allow it to disintegrate without chewing or crushing .
• The tablet will disintegrate in saliva so that it can be swallowed .
No liquid is needed to take the tablet .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 8 . 6 mg Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet : round , purple to light purple mottled ( debossed " T1 " on one side and plain on the other ) • 17 . 3 mg Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet : round , purple to light purple mottled ( debossed " T2 " on one side and plain on the other ) • 25 . 9 mg Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet : round , purple to light purple mottled ( debossed " T3 " on one side and plain on the other ) Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablets : 8 . 6 mg , 17 . 3 mg and 25 . 9 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS COTEMPLA XR - ODT is contraindicated in patients with : • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , and also within a minimum of 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or product components .
( 4 ) • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulants at recommended doses in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risks in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic .
( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for bipolar disorder prior to COTEMPLA XR - ODT use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms or prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed .
( 5 . 5 ) • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon : Stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including COTEMPLA XR - ODT , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Boxed Warning and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Reactions Sudden death , stroke and myocardial infarction have occurred in adults treated with CNS stimulants at recommended doses .
Sudden death has occurred in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious cardiac problems taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , coronary artery disease , and other serious heart problems .
Perform further evaluation on patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during COTEMPLA XR - ODT treatment .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mm Hg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 bpm ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre - Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode ( e . g . comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon CNS stimulants , including COTEMPLA XR - ODT , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , were observed in post - marketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
Careful follow - up of weight and height in pediatric patients ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or nonmedication - treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and nonmedication - treated pediatric patients over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated children ( i . e . treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants , including COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other ingredients of Cotempla XR - ODT [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Hypertensive crisis when used concomitantly with monoamine oxidase inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Drug dependence [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Serious cardiovascular reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood pressure and heart rate increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - term suppression of growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Based on accumulated data from other methylphenidate products , the most common ( > 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) adverse reactions are appetite decreased , insomnia , nausea , vomiting , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , weight decreased , anxiety , dizziness , irritability , affect lability , tachycardia , and blood pressure increased .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Neos Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 319 - 1789 or http : / / www . COTEMPLAXRODT . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trials Experience with Other Methylphenidate Products in Children , Adolescents , and Adults with ADHD Commonly reported ( ≥ 2 % of the methylphenidate group and at least twice the rate of the placebo group ) adverse reactions from placebo - controlled trials of methylphenidate products include : appetite decreased , weight decreased , nausea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , dry mouth , vomiting , insomnia , anxiety , nervousness , restlessness , affect lability , agitation , irritability , dizziness , vertigo , tremor , blurred vision , blood pressure increased , heart rate increased , tachycardia , palpitations , hyperhidrosis , and pyrexia .
Clinical Trials Experience with COTEMPLA XR - ODT in Children with ADHD There is limited experience with COTEMPLA XR - ODT in controlled trials .
Based on this limited experience , the adverse reaction profile of COTEMPLA XR - ODT appears similar to other methylphenidate extended release - products .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of methylphenidate products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are as follows : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Pancytopenia , Thrombocytopenia , Thrombocytopenic purpura Cardiac Disorders : Angina pectoris , Bradycardia , Extrasystole , Supraventricular tachycardia , Ventricular extrasystole Eye Disorders : Diplopia , Mydriasis , Visual impairment General Disorders : Chest pain , Chest discomfort , Hyperpyrexia Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions such as Angioedema , Anaphylactic reactions , Auricular swelling , Bullous conditions , Exfoliative conditions , Urticarias , Pruritis NEC , Rashes , Eruptions , and Exanthemas NEC Investigations : Alkaline phosphatase increased , Bilirubin increased , Hepatic enzyme increased , Platelet count decreased , White blood cell count abnormal Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : Arthralgia , Myalgia , Muscle twitching , Rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : Convulsion , Grand mal convulsion , Dyskinesia , Serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs Psychiatric Disorders : Disorientation , Hallucination , Hallucination auditory , Hallucination visual , Libido changes , Mania Urogenital System : Priapism Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Alopecia , Erythema Vascular Disorders : Raynaud ' s phenomenon 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Clinically Important Interactions with COTEMPLA XR - ODT Table 1 : Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with MethylphenidateMonoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Intervention : Do not administer COTEMPLA - XR ODT concomitantly with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment .
Examples : selegiline , tranylcypromine , isocarboxazid , phenelzine , linezolid , methylene blue Gastric pH Modulators Clinical Impact : May change the release profile and alter the pharmacodynamics of COTEMPLA - XR ODT .
Intervention : Concomitant use of Cotempla XR - ODT with a gastric pH modulator ( i . e . , a H2 - blocker or a proton pump inhibitor ) is not recommended .
Examples : omeprazole , famotidine , sodium bicarbonate Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact : Cotempla XR - ODT may decrease the effectiveness of drug used to treat hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed .
Examples : Potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics , calcium channel blockers , angiotensin - converting - enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , beta blockers , centrally acting alpha - 2 receptor agonists Risperidone Clinical Impact : Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) .
Intervention : Monitor for signs of EPS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to COTEMPLA XR - ODT during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
Risk Summary Published studies and postmarketing reports on methylphenidate use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse pregnancy - related outcomes [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the fetus associated with the use of central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulants during pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
No teratogenic effects were observed in embryo - fetal development studies with oral administration of methylphenidate to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses 4 and 18 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 51 . 8 mg ( as base ) .
However , spina bifida was observed in rabbits at a dose 60 times the MRHD [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions CNS stimulants , such as COTEMPLA XR - ODT , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Human Data A limited number of pregnancies have been reported in published observational studies and postmarketing reports describing methylphenidate use during pregnancy .
Due to the small number of methylphenidate - exposed pregnancies with known outcomes , these data cannot definitely establish or exclude any drug - associated risk during pregnancy .
Methodological limitations of these observational studies include small sample size , concomitant use of other medications , lack of detail regarding dose and duration of exposure to methylphenidate and non - generalizability of the enrolled populations .
Animal Data In studies conducted in rats and rabbits , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 75 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
Teratogenic effects ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) were observed in rabbits at the highest dose , which is approximately 60 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 51 . 8 mg ( as base ) for adolescents on a mg / m 2 basis .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rabbits was 60 mg / kg / day ( 18 times the MRHD for adolescent on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of specific teratogenic activity in rats , although increased incidences of fetal skeletal variations were seen at the highest dose level ( 11 times the MRHD on a mg / m 2 basis for adolescent ) , which was also maternally toxic .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rats was 25 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m 2 basis for adolescent ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature , based on breast milk sampling from five mothers , reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
Long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for COTEMPLA XR - ODT and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from COTEMPLA XR - ODT or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , insomnia , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of COTEMPLA XR - ODT have been established in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age in one adequate and well - controlled study in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years , pharmacokinetic data in adolescents , and safety information from other methyphenidate - containing products [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The long - term efficacy of methylphenidate in pediatric patients has not been established .
Safety and effectiveness of COTEMPLA XR - ODT in pediatric patients below 6 years of age have not been established .
Long Term Suppression Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , including COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Children who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Rats treated with methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood .
A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only .
The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 51 . 8 mg ( as base ) for pediatric patients on a mg / m 2 basis .
In the study conducted in young rats , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal weeks 13 - 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day [ approximately 6 times the MRHD of 51 . 8 mg ( as base ) on a mg / m 2 basis ] or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females exposed to the highest dose ( 12 times the MRHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( half the MRHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use COTEMPLA XR - ODT has not been studied in patients over the age of 65 years .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance COTEMPLA XR - ODT contains methylphenidate , a Schedule II controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants including COTEMPLA XR - ODT , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is characterized by impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Abusers of CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which can result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of CNS stimulants including COTEMPLA XR - ODT , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for COTEMPLA XR - ODT use .
9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance Tolerance ( a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ' s desired and / or undesired effects over time ) can occur during chronic therapy with CNS stimulants including COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Dependence Physical dependence ( a state of adaptation manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist ) can occur in patients treated with CNS stimulants including COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include dysphoric mood ; depression , fatigue ; vivid , unpleasant dreams ; insomnia or hypersomnia ; increased appetite ; and psychomotor retardation or agitation .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdosage , resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperflexia , muscle twitching , convulsion ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
10 . 2 Management of Overdose Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice on the management of overdosage with methylphenidate .
Provide supportive care , including close medical supervision and monitoring .
Treatment should consist of general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug .
Consider the possibility of multiple drug overdosage .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
Use supportive and symptomatic measures .
11 DESCRIPTION COTEMPLA XR - ODT contains methylphenidate , a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT is an extended - release orally disintegrating tablet intended for once daily administration .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT contains approximately 25 % immediate - release and 75 % extended - release methylphenidate .
Methylphenidate is ionically - bound to the sulfonate of polystyrene sulfonate particles .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT contains 8 . 6 mg , 17 . 3 mg or 25 . 9 mg of methylphenidate which is the same as the amount of methylphenidate ( base equivalent ) found , respectively , in 10 mg , 20 mg and 30 mg strength methylphenidate hydrochloride products .
The chemical name of methylphenidate is methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidineacetate , and its structural formula is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Methylphenidate Structure [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 14 H 19 NO 2 Mol .
Wt .
233 . 31 COTEMPLA XR - ODT also contains the following inactive ingredients : Mannitol , Fructose , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Crospovidone , Methacrylic Acid , Polystyrene Sulfonate , Citric Acid , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Grape Flavor , Natural Masking Type Powder , Triethyl Citrate , Magnesium Stearate , Ethylcellulose , Sucralose , Lake Blend Purple , and Polyethylene Glycol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Methylphenidate is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d - and 1 - isomers .
The d - isomer is more pharmacologically active than the l - isomer .
Methylphenidate is thought to block the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After oral administration of COTEMPLA XR - ODT , circulation levels of l - methylphenidate ( MPH ) were about 2 % of total MPH .
Absorption Following a single dose of 51 . 8 mg ( 2 × 25 . 9 mg daily ) COTEMPLA XR - ODT in healthy adult subjects under fasted conditions , plasma methylphenidate ( MPH ) reached maximal concentration ( C max ) at a median time of 5 hours after dosing .
Compared to an extended release capsule formulation of methylphenidate , methylphenidate mean C max and exposure ( AUC inf ) was about 26 % and 6 % higher , respectively , after COTEMPLA XR - ODT administration ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 : Mean d - Methylphenidate Plasma Concentration - Time ProfilesAfter Administration of COTEMPLA XR - ODT or Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsule in Healthy Volunteers Under Fasted Conditions [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effect of Food Administration of 51 . 8 mg COTEMPLA XR - ODT with food ( a high fat meal ) decreased the C max and increased AUC inf of total MPH by approximately 24 % and 16 % , respectively .
Food shortened the median time to peak concentration ( T max ) by 0 . 5 hour ( fed : 4 . 5 hours vs . fasted : 5 . 0 hours ) .
Effect of Alcohol There is no in vivo study conducted for the effect of alcohol on drug exposure .
An in vitro dissolution study showed alcohol - induced dose dumping potential in the presence of 40 % alcohol .
Dose dumping was not observed in the presence of lower alcohol concentrations .
Elimination Plasma methylphenidate concentrations decline monophasically following oral administration of COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
The mean plasma terminal elimination half - life of methylphenidate was about 4 hours in healthy volunteers following a single 51 . 8 mg dose administration .
Metabolism In humans , methylphenidate is metabolized primarily via deesterification to alpha - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( ritalinic acid ) .
The metabolite has little or no pharmacological activity .
Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main primary metabolite was PPAA , accounting for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Specific Populations Male and Female Patients and Ethnic Groups There is insufficient experience with the use of COTEMPLA XR - ODT to detect gender or ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics .
Pediatric Patients The pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate after COTEMPLA XR - ODT administration were studied in pediatric patients ( 6 - 17 years of age ) with ADHD under fasted conditions .
After a single oral dose of 51 . 8 mg COTEMPLA XR - ODT , plasma concentrations of methylphenidate in children ( 6 - 12 years of age ) were approximately twice the concentrations observed in adults .
Exposure levels in adolescent patients ( 13 - 17 years of age ) were similar to those in adults .
Body weight normalized clearance values were similar across the age groups ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : PK Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) of d - MPH After 51 . 8 mg Oral Dosing of COTEMPLA XR - ODT Under Fasted ConditionsPK Parameter Children ( n = 24 ) Adolescent ( n = 8 ) Adult ( n = 38 ) T max ( hr ) † 4 . 6 ( 2 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) 5 . 31 ( 3 . 5 - 8 . 0 ) 4 . 98 ( 2 . 5 – 6 . 5 ) T ½ ( hr ) 4 . 43 ± 1 . 0 3 . 93 ± 0 . 33 4 . 00 ± 0 . 73 C max ( ng / mL ) 32 . 7 ± 9 . 83 20 . 2 ± 5 . 79 20 . 8 ± 5 . 22 Cl ( L / hr / kg ) 6 . 21 ± 1 . 48 5 . 54 ± 1 . 19 5 . 48 ± 1 . 46 AUC ∞ ( hr * ng / mL ) 328 . 9 ± 90 . 21 187 . 2 ± 62 . 05 169 . 1 ± 57 . 13 † data presented as median range Patients with Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of COTEMPLA XR - ODT in patients with renal insufficiency .
After oral administration of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , methylphenidate was extensively metabolized and approximately 80 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine in the form of PPAA .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance , renal insufficiency is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of COTEMPLA XR - ODT in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas and , in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
For pediatric patients , this dose is approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose of 51 . 8 ( as base ) on a mg / m 2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 5 times the maximum recommended dose of 51 . 8 mg ( as base ) for pediatric patients on a mg / m 2 basis .
Mutagenesis Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay or the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay .
Sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response , in an in vitro assay in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
Methylphenidate was negative in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Methylphenidate did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week Continuous Breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 12 - fold the maximum recommended human dose of 51 . 8 ( as base ) for adolescents on a mg / m 2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of COTEMPLA XR - ODT was evaluated in a laboratory classroom study conducted in 87 pediatric patients ( Aged 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD .
Following washout of previous methylphenidate medication , there was an open - label dose - optimization period ( 4 weeks ) with an initial dose of 17 . 3 mg of COTEMPLA XR - ODT once daily in the morning .
The dose could be titrated on a weekly basis from 17 . 3 mg , to 25 . 9 mg , to 34 . 6 mg , and up to 51 . 8 mg until an optimal dose or the maximum dose of 51 . 8 mg / day was reached .
At the end of this period , subjects remained on their optimized dose for an additional week .
Subjects then entered a 1 - week randomized , double - blind , parallel group treatment period with the individually optimized dose of COTEMPLA XR - ODT or placebo .
At the end of this week , raters evaluated the attention and behavior of the subjects in a laboratory classroom setting , using the Swanson , Kotkin , Agler , M - Flynn , and Pelham ( SKAMP ) rating scale SKAMP is a validated 13 - item teacher - rated scale that assesses manifestations of ADHD in a classroom setting .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the average of the SKAMP - Combined ( Attention and Deportment ) scores over the test day ( not including the baseline score ) , with assessments conducted at baseline , and 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 , and 13 hours post - dosing .
The key secondary efficacy endpoints were onset and duration of effect , defined as the first point at which active drug separated from placebo on SKAMP - Combined scores and the last time point at which active drug separated from placebo on SKAMP - Combined scores , respectively .
The SKAMP - Combined scores test day average was statistically significantly lower ( improved ) with COTEMPLA XR - ODT compared to placebo ( difference of - 11 ( 95 % CI : - 13 . 9 , - 8 . 2 ) ) ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Efficacy Analysis Results : SKAMP - Combined Scores Averaged Over Classroom Day in Patients with ADHDStudy Number Treatment Group Baseline Score at Randomization a ( SD ) Pre - dose Score on Classroom Day b ( SD ) LS Mean c ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Difference d ( 95 % CI ) SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval .
a Visit 7 baseline score ( Visit 7 occurred prior to the 1 - week randomized , double - blind , parallel group treatment period ) .
b Visit 8 baseline score ( Visit 8 occurred at the end of the 1 - week randomized , double - blind , parallel group treatment period ) .
c Visit 8 LS mean over hours 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 , and 13 .
d Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares means .
Study 1 Cotempla XR - ODT ( 17 . 3 - 51 . 8 mg / day ) 21 . 1 ( 9 . 56 ) 26 . 8 ( 11 . 52 ) 14 . 3 ( 1 . 07 ) - 11 . 0 ( - 13 . 9 , - 8 . 2 ) Placebo 20 . 4 ( 9 . 09 ) 19 . 1 ( 11 . 04 ) 25 . 3 ( 1 . 16 ) -- The SKAMP - Combined scores were also statistically significantly lower ( improved ) at time points ( 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , 12 hours ) post - dosing with COTEMPLA XR - ODT compared to placebo ( Figure 3 ) .
Figure 3 : LS Mean SKAMP Combined Score After Treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT or Placebo During Classroom Day in Patients with ADHD [ MULTIMEDIA ] * SE = Standard Error The database was not large enough to assess whether there were differences in effects in age , gender , or race subgroups .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING COTEMPLA XR - ODT Extended Release Orally Disintegrating Tablets are available in three strengths : • 8 . 6 mg tablets , round , purple to light purple , mottled , and debossed " T1 " on one side of the tablet ; • 17 . 3 mg tablets , round , purple to light purple , mottled , and debossed " T2 " on one side of the tablet ; • 25 . 9 mg tablets , round , purple to light purple , mottled , and debossed " T3 " on one side of the tablet .
They are available as follows : NDC 70165 - 100 - 30 8 . 6 mg tablets : carton containing 5 blister cards of 6 tablets each , for a total of 30 tablets with a reusable travel case .
NDC 70165 - 200 - 30 17 . 3 mg tablets : carton containing 5 blister cards of 6 tablets each , for a total of 30 tablets with a reusable travel case .
NDC 70165 - 300 - 30 25 . 9 mg tablets : carton containing 5 blister cards of 6 tablets each , for a total of 30 tablets with a reusable travel case .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted from 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store COTEMPLA XR - ODT blister packages in the reusable travel case after removal from the carton .
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired COTEMPLA XR - ODT by a medicine take - back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix COTEMPLA XR - ODT with an undesirable , nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard COTEMPLA XR - ODT in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients and their caregivers that COTEMPLA XR - ODT is a federally controlled substance , and it can be abused or lead to dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , and 9 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients that they should not give COTEMPLA XR - ODT to anyone else .
Advise patients to store COTEMPLA XR - ODT in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients and their caregivers to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients and their caregivers to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired COTEMPLA XR - ODT through a medicine take - back program if available [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Instructions for Taking COTEMPLA XR - ODT Instruct patients and their caregivers on the following : • The tablet should remain in the blister pack until the patient is ready to take it .
• The tablet should be taken immediately after opening the blister pack .
It should not be stored for future use .
• The patient or caregiver should use dry hands when opening the blister pack .
• The patient or caregiver should remove the tablet by peeling back the foil on the blister pack .
The tablet should not be pushed through the foil .
• As soon as the blister is opened , the tablet should be removed and placed on the patient ' s tongue .
• The whole tablet should be placed on the tongue and allowed to disintegrate without chewing or crushing .
• The tablet will disintegrate in saliva and can be swallowed .
No liquid is needed to take the tablet .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients , caregivers , and their family members that there is a potential for serious cardiovascular risks including sudden death , myocardial infarction , and stroke with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Advise patients and their caregivers that COTEMPLA XR - ODT can elevate blood pressure and heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients and their caregivers that COTEMPLA XR - ODT , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without a prior history or psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients , caregivers , and family members of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct the patient to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes [ Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ] • Instruct patients about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
• Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
• Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients , families , and caregivers that COTEMPLA XR - ODT can cause slowing of growth and weight loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Alcohol effect Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Consumption of alcohol while taking COTEMPLA XR - ODT may result in a more rapid release of the dose of methylphenidate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in females exposed to COTEMPLA XR - ODT during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for Neos Therapeutics Brands , LLC .
Grand Prairie , TX 75050 .
Made in USA .
For more information , call 1 - ( 888 ) - 319 - 1789 COTEMPLA XR - ODT is a registered trademark of Neos Therapeutics , Inc .
Copyright © 2014 , Neos Therapeutics , Inc .
Item # PIN010299 Rev . 06 / 2021 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised June / 2021 Medication Guide COTEMPLA XR - ODT ( koh - TEM - pluh - oh dee tee ) ( methylphenidate ) extended - release orally disintegrating tablets , CII What is the most important information I should know about COTEMPLA XR - ODT ?
COTEMPLA XR - ODT can cause serious side effects , including : • Abuse and dependence .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT , other methylphenidate containing medicines , and amphetamines have a high chance for abuse and can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Your healthcare provider should check your child for signs of abuse and dependence before and during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
• Tell your healthcare provider if your child has ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines , or street drugs .
• Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Heart - related problems , including : • sudden death in children who have heart problems or heart defects • increased blood pressure and heart rate Your healthcare provider should check your child carefully for heart problems before starting COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Tell your healthcare provider if your child has any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these problems .
Your healthcare provider should check your child ' s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if your child has any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
• Mental ( psychiatric ) problems , including : • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , or seeing or believing things that are not real ) or new manic symptoms Tell your healthcare provider about any mental problems your child has , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your healthcare provider right away if your child has any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT , especially hearing voices , seeing or believing things that are not real , or new manic symptoms .
What is COTEMPLA XR - ODT ?
COTEMPLA XR - ODT is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant prescription medicine used for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in children 6 to 17 years of age .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in children 6 to 17 years of age with ADHD .
It is not known if COTEMPLA XR - ODT is safe and effective in children under 6 years of age .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains methylphenidate that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
Keep COTEMPLA XR - ODT in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give your COTEMPLA XR - ODT to anyone else , because it may cause death or harm them .
Selling or giving away COTEMPLA XR - ODT may harm others and is against the law .
Do not give COTEMPLA XR - ODT to your child if they are : • allergic to methylphenidate or any of the ingredients in COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
• taking , or has taken within the past 14 days , a medicine used to treat depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Before taking COTEMPLA XR - ODT tell your child ' s healthcare provider about all medical conditions , including if your child : • has heart problems , heart defects , or high blood pressure • has mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression • has circulation problems in fingers and toes • is pregnant or plans to become pregnant .
It is not known if COTEMPLA XR - ODT will harm the unborn baby .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to COTEMPLA XR - ODT during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to COTEMPLA XR - ODT and their baby .
If your child becomes pregnant during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants .
You can register by calling 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
• is breastfeeding or plans to breastfeed .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT passes into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if your child will take COTEMPLA XR - ODT or breastfeed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines that your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be adjusted during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Your healthcare provider will decide whether COTEMPLA XR - ODT can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if your child takes : • anti - depression medicines including MAOIs Know the medicines that your child takes .
Keep a list of the medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should COTEMPLA XR - ODT be taken ?
• Take COTEMPLA XR - ODT exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may change the dose if needed .
• Take COTEMPLA XR - ODT 1 time each day in the morning .
• COTEMPLA XR - ODT can be taken with or without food but take it the same way each time .
Take COTEMPLA XR - ODT as follows : • Keep COTEMPLA XR - ODT in the blister pack until your child is ready to take it .
Take COTEMPLA XR - ODT right after opening the blister pack .
Do not store the tablet for future use .
• Use dry hands when opening the blister pack .
• Remove the tablet by peeling back the foil on the blister pack .
Do not push the tablet through the foil .
• As soon as the blister is opened , remove the tablet and place it on the tongue .
Do not chew or crush the tablet .
• The tablet will dissolve and can be swallowed with saliva .
No liquid is needed to take the tablet .
• Your healthcare provider may sometimes stop your child ' s COTEMPLA XR - ODT treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• If your child takes too much COTEMPLA XR - ODT , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT ?
You should avoid drinking alcohol during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
What are possible side effects of COTEMPLA XR - ODT ?
COTEMPLA XR - ODT can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about COTEMPLA XR - ODT ? "
• Painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) .
Priapism has happened in males who take products that contain methylphenidate .
If your child develops priapism , get medical help right away .
• Circulation problems in fingers and toes ( peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ) .
Signs and symptoms may include : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your healthcare provider if your child has numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in their fingers or toes .
Call your healthcare provider right away if your child has any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
• Slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children .
Children should have their height and weight checked often during treatment with COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
COTEMPLA XR - ODT treatment may be stopped if your child is not gaining weight or height .
The most common side effects of methylphenidate products include : • decreased appetite • trouble sleeping • nausea • vomiting • indigestion • stomach pain • weight loss • anxiety • dizziness • irritability • mood swings • increased heart rate • increased blood pressure These are not all the possible side effects of COTEMPLA XR - ODT .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store COTEMPLA XR - ODT ?
• Store COTEMPLA XR - ODT at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store COTEMPLA XR - ODT in a safe place , like a locked cabinet .
• Store COTEMPLA XR - ODT in the blister packaging until it is ready to be taken .
• Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired COTEMPLA XR - ODT by a medicine take - back program at authorized collection sites such as retail pharmacies , hospital or clinic pharmacies , and law enforcement locations .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix COTEMPLA XR - ODT with an undesirable , nontoxic substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and throw away COTEMPLA XR - ODT in the household trash .
Keep COTEMPLA XR - ODT and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of COTEMPLA XR - ODT Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the Medication Guide .
Do not use COTEMPLA XR - ODT for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give COTEMPLA XR - ODT to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about COTEMPLA XR - ODT that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in COTEMPLA XR - ODT ?
Active Ingredient : Methylphenidate Inactive Ingredients : Mannitol , Fructose , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Crospovidone , Methacrylic Acid , Polystyrene Sulfonate , Citric Acid , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Grape Flavor , Natural Masking Type Powder , Triethyl Citrate , Magnesium Stearate , Ethylcellulose , Sucralose , Lake Blend Purple , and Polyethylene Glycol Manufactured for Neos Therapeutics Brands , LLC , Grand Prairie , TX 75050 For more information go to http : / / www . COTEMPLAXRODT . com or call 1 - 888 - 319 - 1789 COTEMPLA XR - ODT is registered in the US Patent and Trademark Office © 2014 Neos Therapeutics , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 . 6 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton Contains : NDC 70165 - 100 - 30 30 Tablets ( 5 x 6 - count blister cards ) Travel Case Rx Only Cotempla XR - ODT ™ CII Methylphenidate Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablets Do not crush or chew tablets Each tablet contains 8 . 6 mg of methylphenidate ( equivalent to that in a 10 mg strength methylphenidate hydrochloride product ) 8 . 6 mg NEOS ™ Therapeutics PHARMACIST : Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 17 . 3 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton Contains : NDC 70165 - 200 - 30 30 Tablets ( 5 x 6 - count blister cards ) Travel Case Rx Only Cotempla XR - ODT ™ CII Methylphenidate Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablets Do not crush or chew tablets Each tablet contains 17 . 3 mg of methylphenidate ( equivalent to that in a 20 mg strength methylphenidate hydrochloride product ) 17 . 3 mg NEOS ™ Therapeutics PHARMACIST : Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 . 9 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton Contains : NDC 70165 - 300 - 30 30 Tablets ( 5 x 6 - count blister cards ) Travel Case Rx Only Cotempla XR - ODT ™ CII Methylphenidate Extended - Release Orally Disintegrating Tablets Do not crush or chew tablets Each tablet contains 25 . 9 mg of methylphenidate ( equivalent to that in a 30 mg strength methylphenidate hydrochloride product ) 25 . 9 mg NEOS ™ Therapeutics PHARMACIST : Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
