Active ingredients Purpose Homosalate 10 % ............. Sunscreen Octocrylene 8 % ............... Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % .................. Sunscreen Avobenzone 3 % .............. Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see DIrections ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Keep our of reach of children .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product , keep out of eyes .
RInse with water to remove .
• If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p .
m . • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water , Beeswax , Isopropryl Palmitate , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cyclopentasiloxane , Cyclohexasiloxane , Ceteareth - 20 , Hydroxyacetophenone , Carbomer , Benzyl Alcohol , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Triethanolamine , Simmondsia Chinensis Seed Oil , Rubus Idaeus Seed Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Parfum , Glycerin , Maltodextrin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Terminalia Ferdinandiana Fruit Extract , Citric Acid Other informaiton Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Contact us at frankbody . com frank body SPF 50 + Hydrating Body Sunscreen UVA + UVB Broad Spectrum SPF50 + With hyaluronic acid Fast absorbing Water resistant ( 80 minutes ) 4 . 73 fl oz - 140 ml [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
