Rx Only Each Tablet Contains : Acetaminophen 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenyltoloxamine Citrate 55 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acetaminophen , 4 ' - hydroxyacetanilide , a slightly bitter , white odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
Phenyltoloxamine citrate is an antihistamine having the chemical name N , N - dimethyl - 2 - ( α - phenyl - o - tolyloxy ) ethylamine dihydrogen citrate .
Inactive ingredients : Each tablet contains povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The analgesic action of acetaminophen involves peripheral influences , but the specific mechanism is as yet undetermined .
Antipyretic activity is mediated through hypothalamic heat regulating centers .
Acetaminophen inhibits prostaglandin synthetase .
Therapeutic doses of acetaminophen have negligible effects on the cardiovascular or respiratory systems ; however , toxic doses may cause circulatory failure and rapid , shallow breathing .
Pharmacokinetics The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Acetaminophen Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Phenyltoloxamine Citrate Phenyltoloxamine is an H1 blocking agent which interferes with the action of histamine primarily in capillaries surrounding mucous tissues and sensory nerves of the nasal and adjacent areas .
It has the ability to interfere with certain areas of acetylcholine - inhibiting secretions in the nose , mouth and pharynx .
It commonly causes CNS depression .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains associated with headaches , backache , muscular aches , the menstrual and premenstrual periods , colds , the flu , toothaches , as well as for minor pain from arthritis , and to reduce fever .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be administered to patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to acetaminophen or phenyltoloxamine citrate .
Laboratory Tests In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Acetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
The sedative effects of phenyltoloxamine citrate are additive to the CNS depressant effects of alcohol , hypnotics , sedatives and tranquilizers .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether phenyltoloxamine citrate or acetaminophen has a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of its effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from phenyltoloxamine citrate and acetaminophen , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
Dermatological : skin rash , pruritus .
The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
OVERDOSAGE Following an acute overdosage , toxicity may result from phenyltoloxamine citrate or acetaminophen .
Acetaminophen In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma , and thrombocytopenia may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
In adults , hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 grams , or fatalities with less than 15 grams .
Treatment A single or multiple overdose with phenyltoloxamine citrate or acetaminophen is a potentially lethal overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically , or with syrup of ipecac , if the patient is alert ( adequate pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes ) .
If the dose of acetaminophen may have exceeded 140 mg / kg , acetylcysteine should be administered as early as possible .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained , since levels four or more hours following ingestion help predict acetaminophen toxicity .
Do not await acetaminophen assay results before initiating treatment .
Hepatic enzymes should be obtained initially , and repeated at 24 - hour intervals .
Methemoglobinemia over 30 % should be treated with methylene blue by slow intravenous administration .
The toxic dose for adults for acetaminophen is 10 g . Dosage Adults 12 years and over - ½ or 1 tablet every 4 hours .
Maximum daily dose - 5 tablets .
Children 6 to under 12 years - ½ tablet every 4 hours .
Maximum daily dose - 2 ½ tablets Children under 6 years of age : consult a physician .
WARNINGS Do not take this product for pain for more than 10 days ( adults ) or 5 days ( children ) , and do not take for fever for more than 3 days unless directed by a physician .
If pain or fever persists , if new symptoms occur , or if redness or swelling is present , consult a physician immediately because these could be signs of a serious condition .
Do not give this product to children under 12 years of age for the pain of arthritis unless directed by a physician .
May cause drowsiness ; alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect .
Avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this product .
Do not take this product if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers without first consulting your physician .
Use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Prompt medical attention is critical , for adults as well as for children , even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using this product .
STORE AT ROOM TEMPERATURE 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC # 35501 - 023 - 01 Bottles of 100 count tablets ; and samples NDC # 35501 - 023 - 02 containing 4 tablets .
A red capsule shaped tablet with a score on both sides .
Both sides with " ZFLEX " on the left side of the score and a blank space on the right side of the score .
If tablet is broken at the score , one side will display " ZFLEX " and the other side will be blank .
Rx only Manufactured for : Huckaby Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Crestwood , KY 40014 MG # 27909 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 Tablet Bottle Label NDC 35501 - 023 - 01 ZFLEX ™ 100 Tablets Rx Only Distributed by : HUCKABY Pharmaceuticals , Inc Crestwood , KY 40014 Tel . 502 - 241 - 1570 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
