DESCRIPTION The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
The steroids in this class include triamcinolone acetonide .
Triamcinolone acetonide is designated chemically as 9 - fluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] A two - second application , which covers an area approximately the size of the hand , delivers an amount of triamcinolone acetonide not exceeding 0 . 2 mg .
After spraying , the nonvolatile vehicle remaining on the skin contains approximately 0 . 2 % triamcinolone acetonide .
Each gram of spray provides 0 . 147 mg triamcinolone acetonide in a vehicle of isopropyl palmitate , dehydrated alcohol ( 10 . 3 % ) , and isobutane propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Kenalog Spray ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Topical Aerosol , USP ) is indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparations .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of any potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests , and for impairment of thermal homeostasis .
If HPA axis suppression or elevation of the body temperature occurs , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , substitute a less potent steroid , or use a sequential approach .
Recovery of HPA axis function and thermal homeostasis are generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient Patients using Kenalog Spray should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only ; avoid contact with the eyes and inhalation of the spray .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
• 5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
• 6 .
Do not use Kenalog Spray on the underarms or groin areas unless directed by your physician .
• 7 .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact your physician .
• 8 .
Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using Kenalog Spray without first consulting your physician .
• 9 .
Kenalog Spray is flammable .
Avoid heat , flames or smoking when applying Kenalog Spray .
Laboratory Tests A urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone showed negative results .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings ( reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence ) : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Directions for use of the spray can are provided on the label .
The preparation may be applied to any area of the body , but when it is sprayed about the face , care should be taken to see that the eyes are covered , and that inhalation of the spray is avoided .
Spray is flammable ; avoid heat , flame or smoking when using this product .
Three or four applications daily of Kenalog Spray ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Topical Aerosol ) are generally adequate .
HOW SUPPLIED Kenalog Spray ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Topical Aerosol , USP ) is a clear , colorless liquid that is practically free from visible impurities .
It has an odor characteristic of ethanol .
It is supplied as follows : 63 g ( NDC 10631 - 093 - 62 ) aerosol can .
100 g ( NDC 10631 - 093 - 07 ) aerosol can .
Storage and Handling Store at room temperature ; avoid excessive heat .
Contents under pressure ; do not puncture or incinerate .
Keep out of reach of children .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories Inc .
San Antonio , TX 78215 Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Revised May 2018 Package / Label Display Panel - 15 g carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel - 15 g Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - 63 g Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
