WARNING FLAMMABLE Keep away from fire or flame .
To reduce the risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • do not use 26 - mL applicator for head and neck surgery or on an area smaller than 8 . 4 in .
x 8 . 4 in .
Use a smaller applicator instead .
• solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors • avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
Wet hair is flammable .
• do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) • do not allow solution to pool • remove wet materials from prep area Active ingredients Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % w / v Isopropyl alcohol 70 % v / v Purposes Antiseptic Antiseptic Use for the preparation of the patient ’ s skin prior to surgery .
Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
To reduce risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • do not use 26 - ml applicator for head and neck surgery • do not use on an area smaller than 8 . 4 in .
x 8 . 4 in .
Use a smaller applicator instead .
• solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors • avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
Wet hair is flammable .
• do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) • do not allow solution to pool • remove wet materials from prep area Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do Not Use • on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns • use in a well ventilated area • maximal treatment area for one applicator is approximately 13 . 2 in .
x 13 . 2 in .
( 1126 cm2 ) .
Do not use 26 - ml applicator for area smaller than 8 . 4 in .
x 8 . 4 in .
Use a smaller applicator instead .
• do not use 26 - ml applicator for head and neck surgery • remove applicator from package ; do not touch sponge • hold the applicator with the sponge down .
Pinch wing only once to activate the ampules and release the antiseptic • wet the sponge by pressing and releasing the sponge against the treatment area until liquid is visible on the skin • completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic • dry surgical sites ( e . g . , abdomen or arm ) : use gentle repeated back - and - forth strokes for 30 seconds • moist surgical sites ( e . g . , inguinal fold ) : use gentle repeated back - and - forth strokes for 2 minutes • do not allow solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution , and then remove • allow the solution to completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) .
Do not blot or wipe away • discard the applicator after a single use along with any portion of the solution not required to cover the prep area .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available .
Other Information • store between 15 - 30 oC ( 59 - 86 oF ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 oC ( 104 oF ) Inactive Ingredients USP purified water Questions ?
www . chloraprep . com • call 1 - 800 - 523 - 0502 ( M - F 8 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST ) Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - BD ChloraPrep Clear 26 mL Applicator 2 % w / v chlorhexidine gluconate ( CHG ) and 70 % v / v Isopropyl alcohol ( IPA ) Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation Sterile Solution Applicator is sterile if package is intact Clear REF 930800 NDC 54365 - 400 - 37 External Use Only Professional Use Only STERILE EO STERILE SOLUTION CareFusion 213 , LLC , El Paso , TX 79912 , subsidiary of Becton , Dickinson and Co .
Made in the USA of US and imported parts www . bd . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
