Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue lidocaine - containing products and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Active Ingredient Menthol 1 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Active Ingredient Camphor 3 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Active Ingredient Dimethicone 3 % Purpose Skin Conditioner Uses : For the temporary relief of joint pain and muscle pain associated with : • Arthritis • Backache • Discomfort • Cramps • Neckache • Soreness • Sprains • Strains Warnings For External Use Only Flammable Keep away from excessive heat or open flame Do Not Use • On damaged or irritated skin • With a bandage or heating pad • If you are allergic to any ingredients in this product • Other than as directed When Using This Product Avoid contact with the eyes Stop Use and Ask a Doctor If • Condition worsens • Excessive skin irritation develops • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or symptoms clear up and occur again within 3 days If You Are Pregnant or Breast Feeding Ask a health professional before use Keep Out of Reach of Children If ingested , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Directions Adults and Children 12 years of Age and Older : • Clean and dry the affected area • Apply product directly to your skin , up to 4 times daily Other Information • Store in a cool , dry place with lid tightly closed Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Arnica Montana Flower , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Carbomer , Ethylhexylglycerin , FD & C Blue # 1 , Methylsulfonylmethane , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , SD - Alcohol 40 B , Sorbitol , Triethanolamine , Water .
Questions or Comments ?
( 877 ) 985 - 8377 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
