MULTIPLE ELECTROLYTES INJECTION TYPE 1 , USP For Replacing Acute Losses of Extracellular Fluid Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION Normosol - R is a sterile , nonpyrogenic isotonic solution of balanced electrolytes in water for injection .
The solution is administered by intravenous infusion for parenteral replacement of acute losses of extracellular fluid .
Each 100 mL of Normosol - R contains sodium chloride , 526 mg ; sodium acetate , 222 mg ; sodium gluconate , 502 mg ; potassium chloride , 37 mg ; magnesium chloride hexahydrate , 30 mg .
May contain HCl and / or NaOH for pH adjustment .
pH 6 . 6 ( 4 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) ; 294 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
.
Electrolytes per 1000 mL ( not including pH adjustment ) : Sodium 140 mEq ; potassium 5 mEq ; magnesium 3 mEq ; chloride 98 mEq ; acetate 27 mEq ; gluconate 23 mEq .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Normosol - R is a parenteral fluid and electrolyte replenisher .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Magnesium Chloride , USP is chemically designated magnesium chloride hexahydrate ( MgCl2 • 6H2O ) deliquescent crystals very soluble in water .
Sodium Acetate , USP , is chemically designated sodium acetate anhydrous ( C2H3NaO2 ) , a hygroscopic powder soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium gluconate is chemically designated C6H11NaO7 , the normal sodium salt of gluconic acid soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , Normosol - R provides water and electrolytes for replacement of acute extracellular fluid losses without disturbing normal electrolyte relationships .
The electrolyte composition approaches that of the principal ions of normal plasma ( extracellular fluid ) .
The electrolyte concentration is approximately isotonic in relation to the extracellular fluid ( approx .
280 mOsmol / liter ) and provides a physiologic sodium to chloride ratio , normal plasma concentrations of potassium and magnesium and two bicarbonate alternates , acetate and gluconate .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl ¯ ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult and child over 10 days old ; 3 . 5 to 6 . 0 mEq / liter in a child less than 10 days old ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Magnesium chloride in water dissociates to provide magnesium ( Mg + + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
Magnesium is the second most plentiful cation of the intracellular fluids .
It is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability .
Normal plasma concentration ranges from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 or 3 . 0 mEq / liter .
Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney at a rate proportional to the plasma concentration and glomerular filtration .
Sodium acetate provides sodium ( Na + ) and acetate ( CH3COO ¯ ) ions , the latter anion ( a source of hydrogen ion acceptors ) serving as an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 ¯ ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily even in the presence of severe liver disease .
Thus , acetate anion exerts a mild systemic antiacidotic action that may be advantageous during fluid and electrolyte replacement therapy .
Sodium gluconate provides sodium ( Na + ) and gluconate ( C6H11O7 ¯ ) ions .
Although gluconate is a theoretical alternate metabolic source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 ¯ ) anion , a significant antiacidotic action has not been established .
Thus , the gluconate anion serves primarily to complete the cation - anion balance of the solutions .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Average normal pediatric daily requirements are based on the child ’ s weight as described in the table below : Weight Fluid Requirements Up to 10 kg 100 mL / kg 11 to 20 kg 1 , 000 mL + 50 mL / kg for each kg above 10 kg Above 20 kg 1 , 500 mL + 20 mL / kg for each kg above 20 kg Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Normosol - R is indicated for replacement of acute extracellular fluid volume losses in surgery , trauma , burns or shock .
Normosol - R also can be used as an adjunct to restore a decrease in circulatory volume in patients with moderate blood loss .
Normosol - R is not intended to supplant transfusion of whole blood or packed red cells in the presence of uncontrolled hemorrhage or severe reductions of red cell volume .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
Solutions which contain potassium should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function during fluid replacement with Normosol - R .
Solutions containing acetate or gluconate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate or gluconate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of these ions , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Elderly patients may be at increased risk for the development of fluid overloading and dilutional hyponatremia following Normosol - R administration .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Normosol - R should be used with caution in severe renal impairment because of the danger of hyperkalemia .
As with all intravenous solutions , care should be taken to avoid circulatory overload , especially in patients with cardiac or pulmonary disorders .
Normosol - R is not intended to correct acidosis or large deficits of individual electrolytes , nor to replace blood or plasma expanders when these are indicated .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing acetate or gluconate ions should be used with caution , as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Normosol - R .
It is also not known whether this solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use .
The safety and effectiveness of Normosol - R have been established in the age groups of birth to 16 years .
Use of Normosol - R is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled clinical studies in adults with additional data from post - marketing experience in the pediatric population .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Normosol - R did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients have been shown to secrete higher levels of antidiuretic hormone than younger patients , which may increase the risk of fluid overloading , and dilutional hyponatremia in these patients .
See WARNINGS .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
See WARNINGS .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Normosol - R is administered by intravenous infusion .
It may also be administered subcutaneously .
The amount to be infused is based on replacement of losses of extracellular fluid volume in the individual patient .
Up to 3 times the volume of estimated blood loss during and after surgery can be given to correct circulatory volume when there is only a moderate loss of blood .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
Normosol - R does not contain calcium to avoid precipitation of calcium salts that may occur when certain drugs are added .
Solutions which contain calcium in amounts exceeding the normal plasma concentration may enhance clotting on contact with citrated blood .
Hence , Normosol - R can be used for starting blood transfusion .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
To Add Medication • Prepare additive port .
• Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
• The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
To Administer • Attach administration set per manufacturer ’ s instructions .
• Regulate rate of administration per institutional policy .
WARNING : DO NOT USE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Normosol - R ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection Type 1 , USP ) is supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers .
NDC No .
Product Container Size ( mL ) 0409 - 7967 - 09 [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] Normosol - R ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection Type 1 , USP ) 1000 0990 - 7967 - 09 null , null Normosol - R ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection Type 1 , USP ) 1000 [ 1 ] Manufactured by ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA [ 2 ] Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : October , 2018 EN - 4693 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bag Label 1000 mL NDC 0990 - 7967 - 09 NORMOSOL ® - R MULTIPLE ELECTROLYTES INJECTION TYPE 1 , USP EACH 100 mL CONTAINS SODIUM CHLORIDE 526 mg ; SODIUM ACETATE , ANHYD .
222 mg ; SODIUM GLUCONATE 502 mg ; POTASSIUM CHLORIDE 37 mg ; MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE , HEXAHYDRATE 30 mg IN WATER FOR INJECTION .
MAY CONTAIN HCI AND / OR NaOH FOR pH ADJUSTMENT .
ELECTROLYTES PER 1000 mL ( NOT INCLUDING pH ADJUSTMENT ) : SODIUM 140 mEq ; POTASSIUM 5 mEq ; MAGNESIUM 3 mEq ; CHLORIDE 98 mEq ; ACETATE 27 mEq ; GLUCONATE 23 mEq .
294 mOsmol / LITER ( CALC ) .
pH 6 . 6 ( 4 . 0 TO 8 . 0 ) ADDITIVES MAY BE INCOMPATIBLE .
CONSULT WITH PHARMACIST , IF AVAILABLE .
WHEN INTRODUCING ADDITIVES , USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE , MIX THOROUGHLY AND DO NOT STORE .
SINGLE - DOSE CONTAINER .
FOR ( IV ) OR SUBCUTANEOUS USE .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Rx ONLY 3 V CONTAINS DEHP IM - 4414 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
