Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3 % Sunscreen Homosalate 15 % Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % Sunscreen Octocrylene 10 % Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • ensure complete coverage to the area above the lip , nose and tops of ears • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • After use , twist stick down prior to capping to ensure complete closure .
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics • protect from freezing Inactive ingredients Neopentyl Glycol Diethylhexanoate , Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , Polyethylene , Isohexadecane , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Ozokerite , Paraffin , Synthetic Beeswax , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , VP / Eicosene Copolymer , Neopentyl Glycol Diisostearate , Dimethicone , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Styrene / Acrylates Copolymer , Fragrance , BHT Questions ?
Call tollfree 800 - 299 - 4786 or 2152738755 ( collect ) .
www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 42 g Canister Label Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND Beach Defense ® water + sun protection sunscreen stick BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + 50 + helioplex ® broad spectrum uva • uvb water resistant ( 80 minutes ) NET WT .
1 . 5 OZ .
( 42 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
