Drug Facts Active ingredients Zinc Oxide ( 21 . 6 % ) Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • ensure complete coverage to the area above the lip , nose , and tops of ears • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics • package contains small parts , which could cause a choking hazard Inactive ingredients Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Polyethylene , Paraffin , Silica , Neopentyl Glycol Diethylhexanoate , Ozokerite , Isopropyl Myristate , Adipic Acid / Diglycol Crosspolymer , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Neopentyl Glycol Diisostearate , Caprylyl Glycol , Avena Sativa ( Oat ) Kernel Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate Questions ?
Call toll - free 866 - 428 - 3366 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) .
www . aveeno . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 42 g Canister Label Aveeno ® POSITIVELY MINERAL ™ NEW sensitive skin sunscreen stick BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 50 sweat + water resistant ( 80 min ) net wt 1 . 5 oz ( 42 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
