Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each Tablet ) Acetaminophen 325 mg Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to : Headache Muscular aches Backache Toothache Premenstrual and menstrual cramps Temporally reduces fever .
Warnings • Liver warning this product contains Acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 12 tablets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) • you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist • if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if Pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days in adults .
Pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under under 12 years Fever gets worse or last more than 3 days new symptoms occur Redness or swelling is present .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or syptoms .
• Do not take more tahn directed ( see overdose warning ) Directions Directions Adults and Children 12 years and older Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last Do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours Children 6 to 11 years Take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last Do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours Children under 6 years Do not use regular Strength products in children uder 6 years of age ; this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) of acetaminophen and may cause liver damage .
Other information store at room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Povidone , Pregelatinized Starch , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Stearic Acid Acetaminophen 100 tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
