Drug Facts Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Anti - Fungal Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Uses ● proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) ● helps prevent most athlete ' s foot with daily use ● for effective relief of itching , burning and cracking .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ● irritation occurs ● there is no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Directions ● wash affected area and dry thoroughly ● apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) ● supervise children in the use of this product ● for athlete ’ s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
● use daily for 4 weeks ; if conditions persists longer , ask a doctor .
● to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) ● this product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Inactive ingredients Cetostearyl alcohol , ethylparaben , glycerol , light mineral oil , monostearin , petrolatum , purified water , sodium dodecyl sulfate Other information ● store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ● Lot No & Expiration Date : See box or crimp of tube .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Distributed By Distrubuted By Cardinal Health Dublin , Ohio 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 Essential to Care since 1979 Made in China 2021 Cardinal Health .
All rights reserved Cardinal Health , the Cardinal Health LOGO , ESSENTIAL TO CARE and Leader LOGO are trademarks or registered Trademarks of Cardinal Health .
All other marks are the property of their respective owners .
All Leader Brand products have a 100 % Money Back Guarantee This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , owner of the registered trademark Tinactin .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
