Active ingredient : Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose : Acne treatment Keep out of the reach of children .
A sophisticated anti - blemish pad formulated with pharmaceutical grade , proven acne - fighting ingredients to help clear blemishes and blackheads as well as prevent future breakouts .
This hydrating , innovative and gentle formula will improve skin texture and clarity , as well as moisturize to help prevent skin from over - drying or becoming flaky .
Ideal for both adolescent and adult acne .
Uses ■ helps dissolve excess oil ( sebum ) ■ helps reduce bacteria that may cause breakouts ■ helps penetrate pores to control acne blemishes ■ helps prevent new blemishes Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes when using this product .
If contact occurs , rinse abundantly with water to remove .
Discontinue use in case of excessive skin irritation or if condition does not improve .
If irritation persists , consult a health care practitioner .
Using other topical acne products at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one product should be used unless directed by a health care practitioner .
Keep out of children ’ s reach .
Do not use if security seal is missing or broken .
Close tightly after use .
Keep product in original jar .
Other information Store at room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Directions ■ Use the pad to wipe the entire affected area after cleansing and toning face .
Do not leave pad on skin for an extended period of time .
■ Begin with one application daily , gradually increasing up to two to three times daily or as directed by a health care practitioner .
■ Application should be reduced if severe dryness occurs .
When using this product , it is always recommended to apply a sunscreen before sun exposure .
Inactive ingredients : water , octoxynol - 9 , acer saccharum ( maple isolate ) , octoxynol - 12 , sodium thiosulfate , sodium hydroxide , zinc sulfate , mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , benzyl alcohol .
B . KAMINS Anti - Blemish Pads with salicylic acid 35 applications NPN 80014870 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
