Active ingredients : AVOBENZONE 2 % OCTINOXATE 7 % OXYBENZONE 5 % Purpose : Sunscreen Keep out of the reach of children .
This light weight , non - greasy day cream preserves your skin with a healthier protective shield , essential nutrients and continuous moisture release suited to a multitude of daytime environmental conditions .
Our Bio - maple technology helps fight the look of wrinkles , moisturizes and provides radiance throuhout the day .
A perfect primer for mak - up .
For maximum benefits , may be reapplied over make - up as often as needed .
Also useful for soothing post - microdermabrasion skin .
Uses helps prevent sunburn higher SPF gives more sunburn protection provides moderate protection against sunburn Warnings For external use only .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse abundantly with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
If swallowed , seek medical assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Sun alert : limiting sun exposure , earing protective clothing and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer and other harmful effects of the sun .
Directions Apply liberally and evenly each morning to cleansed face and neck , before sun exposure and as needed .
reapply after swimming , washing / towel drying or perspiring heavily .
Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients : aqua / water / eau , glyceryl stearate SE , soluble collagen , butylene glycol , acer saccharum ( maple isolate ) , cetyl alcohol , ceteareth - 12 , coco - caprylate / caprate , squalane , magnesium aluminum silicate , cyclotetrasiloxane , cyclopentasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 dimethicone , PEG - 16 soy sterol , dimethicone , polysorbate 80 , prunus armeniaca ( apricot ) kernel oil , retinyl palmitate , tocopheryl acetate , sodium hydroxide , citric acid , phenoxyethanol , caprylyl glycol , sorbic acid , parfum / fragrance .
Contains oxybenzone B . KAMINS DAY CREAM SPF15 50 mL / 1 . 7 fl . oz DIN 0246708 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
