Active Ingredient : Ethyl Alcohol 62 % Uses : For hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings : For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire or flame Do not use in the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Empty contents into palm .
Rub hands until gel dissipates .
Recommended for repeated use .
Other Information : Store at 15 to 25 degree Celsius ( 59 to 77 degree Fahrenheit ) Genuine Hand Sanitizer Instant Gel Antiseptic Handwash with Vitamin E and Aloe Kills 99 . 9 percent of germs Without Water Net Wt 0 . 9 g ( 1 / 32 oz ) Manufactured in China For Genuine First Aid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient : Purpose Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 40 % ... First Aid Antiseptic Use : For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warning : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use if unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur .
Consult a physician immediately .
Do not use in the eyes or over large areas of the body .
Directions : Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive Ingredient : Purified water LOT / EXP : Made in CHINA 20130301 Antiseptic Towelette Genuine First Aid LLC , Clearwater FL 33755 www . GenuineFirstAid . com GENUINE FIRST AID [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient : ......... Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Uses : To help prevent infection in * minor cuts * scrapes * burns Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients : for more than one week unless directed by a physician .
Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily * may be covered with a sterile bandage Other information : Store at room temperature .
Genuine Triple Antibiotic First Aid Ointment To Help Prevent Infection Each Gram Contains : Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Net Wt .
0 . 5 g * ( 1 / 64 oz ) * Manufactured in CHINA for GENUINE FIRST AID .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Emergency Preparedness 2 Procedural Masks , 3 ply 1 Emergency Blanket 38 " x 60 " 1 Light Stick 4 Antiseptic Towelettes 1 Triple Antibiotic Ointment 0 . 9 gr 1 Hand Sanitizer 0 . 9 gr Manufactured in China for : Genuine First Aid LLC .
600 Cleveland Street Suite 400 Clearwater FL 33755 www . GenuineFirstAid . com GENUINE FIRST AID Copyright 2009 Genuine First Aid LLC .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
