Active Ingredients Each 7 . 5 mL .
Contains ( 1 1 / 2 tsp ) Dextromethorphan HBr 15 mg ......
Antitussive Glyceryl Guaiacolate 150 mg .... Expectorant Purpose Section Antitusive Expectorant These highlights do not include all the information needed to use Sorbutuss .
See full prescribing information for Initial U . S . Approval • For the temporary relief of cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold .
• Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to makes cough more productive .
• For the temporary relief of cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold .
• Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to makes cough more productive .
Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions or Parkinson ' s disease ) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask A Doctor Before use if you have • Chronic cough that last such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema .
• Cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Cough last for more than 7 days comes back or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
Pregnancy or breast feeding section If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children In a case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use Follow dosage below or use as directed by a doctor .
Do not exceed 6 doses in a 24 hours period .
Adults and children 12 years and older 2 teaspoonfuls every 4 hours Children 6 years to under 6 years 1 teaspoonful every 4 hours Children 2 years to 6 years 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 4 hours Children under 2 years Consult a doctor Follow dosage below or use as directed by a doctor .
Do not exceed 6 doses in a 24 hours period .
Adults and children 12 years and older 2 teaspoonfuls every 4 hours Children 6 years to under 6 years 1 teaspoonful every 4 hours Children 2 years to 6 years 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 4 hours Children under 2 years Consult a doctor Other information Store at room temperature 15º - 30º C ( 59º - 86º F ) Inactive Ingredients Artificial and Natural Flavors , Glycerin , Methylparaben , Potassium Citrate , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sorbitol and Sucralose Questions or Comments ?
Teral , Inc . ( 787 ) 383 - 2781 Fax ( 787 ) 284 - 9082 Safety Information Do not accept if safety seal around bottle cap is broken or missing Expiration Date information Lot : Exp : Rev : 12 / 06 Principal Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68436 - 120 - 16 Sorbutuss NR Antitussive - Expectorant Does Not Containt Antihistamines Decongestants Sodium With Sucralose Sugar Free Alcohol Free Dye Free Grape Flavor 16 oz .
fl .
oz .
( 474 mL ) Manufacture for Teral , Inc .
Ponce , P . R . 00731 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
