WARNING .
FLAMMABLE .
KEEP AWAY FROM FIRE OR FLAME .
Keep away from fire or flame .
To reduce risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors • avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
We hair is flammable .
• do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) • do not allow solution to pool • remove wet materials from prep area Active ingredients Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % w / v Isopropyl alcohol 70 % v / v Purposes Antiseptic Antiseptic Use for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery .
Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
To reduce the risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors • avoid getting solution into hairy areas .
Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
Wet hair is flammable .
• do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) • do not allow solution to pool • remove wet materials from prep area Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • on patients with known allergies to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product .
• for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• use in a well ventilated area • maximal treatment area for one applicator is approximately 8 . 4 in .
x 8 . 4 in .
( 457 cm 2 ) • remove applicator from package ; do not touch sponge • hold the applicator with the sponge down .
Pinch wings only once to activate the ampule and release the antiseptic .
• wet the sponge by pressing and releasing the sponge against the treatment area until liquid is visible on the skin • completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic • dry surgical sites ( e . g . , abdomen or arm ) : use gentle back - and - forth strokes for 30 seconds • moist surgical sites ( e . g . , inguinal fold ) : use gentle back - and - forth strokes for 2 minutes • do not allow the solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution , and then remove • allow the solution to completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) .
Do not blot or wipe away .
• discard the applicator after a single use along with any portion of the solution not required to cover the prep area .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available .
Other information • store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients FD & C green # 3 dye , USP purified water Questions ?
• www . chloraprep . com • call 1 - 800 - 523 - 0502 ( M - F 8 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST ) Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON 10 . 5 ml APPLICATORS Scrub Teal ® Not made with natural rubber latex STERILE EO Professional Use Only Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) 25 applicators 0 . 36 fl .
oz .
( 10 . 5 ml ) each NDC 054365 - 400 - 09 Cat .
No . 260725 ChloraPrep ® with Tint 2 % w / v chlorhexidine gluconate ( CHG ) and 70 % v / v isopropyl alcohol ( IPA ) Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation Non - sterile Solution Applicator is sterile if package is intact WARNING FLAMMABLE Keep away from fire or flame .
To reduce risk of fire , PREP CAREFULLY : • solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors • avoid getting solution iinto hairy areas Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry .
Wet hair is flammable .
• do not drape or use ignition source ( e . g . , cautery , laser ) until solution is completely dry ( minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin ; up to 1 hour in hair ) • do not alllow solution to pool • remove wet materials from prep area [ MULTIMEDIA ]
