FOR INTRAMUSCULAR AND INTRAVENOUS USE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Colistimethate for Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Colistimethate for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Colistimethate for Injection USP is a sterile parenteral antibiotic product which , when reconstituted ( see Reconstitution ) , is suitable for intramuscular or intravenous administration .
Each vial contains colistimethate sodium or pentasodium colistinmethanesulfonate ( 150 mg colistin base activity ) .
Colistimethate sodium is a polypeptide antibiotic with an approximate molecular weight of 1750 .
The empirical formula is C 58 H 105 N 16 Na 5 O 28 S 5 and the structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Typical serum and urine levels following a single 150 mg dose of Colistimethate for Injection IM or IV in normal adult subjects are shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Higher serum levels were obtained at 10 minutes following IV administration .
Serum concentration declined with a half - life of 2 - 3 hours following either intravenous or intramuscular administration in adults and in the pediatric population , including premature infants .
Average urine levels ranged from about 270 mcg / mL at 2 hours to about 15 mcg / mL at 8 hours after intravenous administration and from 200 to about 25 mcg / mL during a similar period following intramuscular administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Microbiology Colistimethate sodium is a surface active agent which penetrates into and disrupts the bacterial cell membrane .
It has been shown to have bactericidal activity against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Aerobic gram - negative microorganisms : Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas Aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii .
Susceptibility Tests Colistimethate sodium is no longer listed as an antimicrobial for routine testing and reporting by clinical microbiology laboratories .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colistimethate for Injection is indicated for the treatment of acute or chronic infections due to sensitive strains of certain gram - negative bacilli .
It is particularly indicated when the infection is caused by sensitive strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This antibiotic is not indicated for infections due to Proteus or Neisseria .
Colistimethate for Injection has proven clinically effective in treatment of infections due to the following gram - negative organisms : Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , and Pseudomonas Aeruginosa .
Colistimethate for Injection may be used to initiate therapy in serious infections that are suspected to be due to gram - negative organisms and in the treatment of infections due to susceptible gram - negative pathogenic bacilli .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Colistimethate for Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Colistimethate for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Colistimethate for Injection is contraindicated for patients with a history of sensitivity to the drug or any of its components .
WARNINGS Maximum daily dose should not exceed 5 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 3 mg / lb ) with normal renal function .
Transient neurological disturbances may occur .
These include circumoral paresthesia or numbness , tingling or formication of the extremities , generalized pruritus , vertigo , dizziness , and slurring of speech .
For these reasons , patients should be warned not to drive vehicles or use hazardous machinery while on therapy .
Reduction of dosage may alleviate symptoms .
Therapy need not be discontinued , but such patients should be observed with particular care .
Nephrotoxicity can occur and is probably a dose - dependent effect of colistimethate sodium .
These manifestations of nephrotoxicity are reversible following discontinuation of the antibiotic .
Overdosage can result in renal insufficiency , muscle weakness , and apnea ( see OVERDOSAGE section ) .
See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions subsection for use concomitantly with other antibiotics and curariform drugs .
Respiratory arrest has been reported following intramuscular administration of colistimethate sodium .
Impaired renal function increases the possibility of apnea and neuromuscular blockade following administration of colistimethate sodium .
Therefore , it is important to follow recommended dosing guidelines .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section for use in renal impairment .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including colistimethate for injection , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Since Colistimethate for Injection is eliminated mainly by renal excretion , it should be used with caution when the possibility of impaired renal function exists .
The decline in renal function with advanced age should be considered .
When actual renal impairment is present , Colistimethate for Injection may be used , but the greatest caution should be exercised and the dosage should be reduced in proportion to the extent of the impairment .
Administration of amounts of Colistimethate for Injection in excess of renal excretory capacity will lead to high serum levels and can result in further impairment of renal function , initiating a cycle which , if not recognized , can lead to acute renal insufficiency , renal shutdown , and further concentration of the antibiotic to toxic levels in the body .
At this point , interference of nerve transmission at neuromuscular junctions may occur and result in muscle weakness and apnea ( see OVERDOSAGE section ) .
Signs indicating the development of impaired renal function include : diminishing urine output , rising BUN and serum creatinine and decreased creatinine clearance .
Therapy with Colistimethate for Injection should be discontinued immediately if signs of impaired renal function occur .
However , if it is necessary to reinstate the drug , dosing should be adjusted accordingly after drug plasma levels have fallen ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Prescribing Colistimethate for Injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug Interactions Certain other antibiotics ( aminoglycosides and polymyxin ) have also been reported to interfere with the nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction .
Based on this reported activity , they should not be given concomitantly with Colistimethate for Injection except with greatest caution .
Curariform muscle relaxants ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) and other drugs , including ether , succinylcholine , gallamine , decamethonium , and sodium citrate , potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect and should be used with extreme caution in patients being treated with Colistimethate for Injection .
Sodium cephalothin may enhance the nephrotoxicity of Colistimethate for Injection .
The concomitant use of sodium cephalothin and Colistimethate for Injection should be avoided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal carcinogenicity studies and genetic toxicology studies have not been performed with colistimethate sodium .
There were no adverse effects on fertility or reproduction in rats at doses of 9 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 30 times the maximum daily human dose when based on mg / m 2 ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Colistimethate sodium given intramuscularly during organogenesis to rabbits at 4 . 15 and 9 . 3 mg / kg resulted in talipes varus in 2 . 6 % and 2 . 9 % of fetuses , respectively .
These doses are 0 . 25 and 0 . 55 times the maximum daily human dose based on mg / m 2 .
In addition , increased resorption occurred at 9 . 3 mg / kg .
Colistimethate sodium was not teratogenic in rats at 4 . 15 or 9 . 3 mg / kg .
These doses are 0 . 13 and 0 . 30 times the maximum daily human dose based on mg / m 2 .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Since colistimethate sodium is transferred across the placental barrier in humans , it should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether colistimethate sodium is excreted in human breast milk .
However , colistin sulphate is excreted in human breast milk .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when colistimethate sodium is administered to nursing women .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of colistimethate sodium did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Pediatric Use In clinical studies , colistimethate sodium was administered to the pediatric population ( neonates , infants , children and adolescents ) .
Although adverse reactions appear to be similar in the adult and pediatric populations , subjective symptoms of toxicity may not be reported by pediatric patients .
Close clinical monitoring of pediatric patients is recommended .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Colistimethate for Injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Colistimethate for Injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Colistimethate for Injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported : Gastrointestinal : gastrointestinal upset Nervous System : tingling of extremities and tongue , slurred speech , dizziness , vertigo , paresthesia , and seizures .
Integumentary : generalized itching , urticaria and rash Body as a Whole : fever Laboratory Deviations : increased blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) , elevated creatinine and decreased creatinine clearance Respiratory System : respiratory distress and apnea Renal System : nephrotoxicity and decreased urine output For medical advice about adverse reactions contact your medical professional .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MEDWATCH at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 ( 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 ) or http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch / .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with colistimethate sodium can cause neuromuscular blockade characterized by paresthesia , lethargy , confusion , dizziness , ataxia , nystagmus , disorders of speech and apnea .
Respiratory muscle paralysis may lead to apnea , respiratory arrest and death .
Overdosage with the drug can also cause acute renal failure , manifested as decreased urine output and increases in serum concentrations of BUN and creatinine .
As in any case of overdose , colistimethate sodium therapy should be discontinued and general supportive measures should be utilized .
It is unknown whether colistimethate sodium can be removed by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in overdose cases .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important : Colistimethate for Injection is supplied in vials containing colistimethate sodium equivalent to 150 mg colistin base activity per vial .
Reconstitution : The 150 mg vial should be reconstituted with 2 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP .
The reconstituted solution provides colistimethate sodium at a concentration equivalent to 75 mg / mL colistin base activity .
During reconstitution , swirl gently to avoid frothing .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If these conditions are observed , the product should not be used .
Dosage Adults and pediatric patients — Intravenous or Intramuscular Administration : Colistimethate for Injection should be given in 2 to 4 divided doses at dose levels of 2 . 5 to 5 mg / kg per day for patients with normal renal function , depending on the severity of the infection .
In obese individuals , dosage should be based on ideal body weight .
The daily dose should be reduced in the presence of renal impairment .
Modifications of dosage in the presence of renal impairment are presented in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 .
Suggested Modification of Dosage Schedules of Colistimethate for Injection for Adults with impaired Renal Function . Renal Function Degree of Impairment Normal Mild Moderate Considerable Note : The suggested unit dose is 2 . 5 - 5 mg / kg ; however , the time interval between injections should be increased in the presence of impaired renal function .
Plasma creatinine , mg / 100 mL 0 . 7 - 1 . 2 1 . 3 - 1 . 5 1 . 6 - 2 . 5 2 . 6 - 4 . 0 Urea clearance , % of normal 80 - 100 40 - 70 25 - 40 10 - 25 Dosage Unit dose of Colistimethate for Injection , mg 100 - 150 75 - 115 66 - 150 100 - 150 Frequency , times / day 4 to 2 2 2 or 1 Every 36 hr Total daily dose , mg 300 150 - 230 133 - 150 100 Approximate daily dose , mg / kg / day 5 . 0 2 . 5 - 3 . 8 2 . 5 1 . 5 INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION 1 .
Direct Intermittent Administration – Slowly inject one - half of the total daily dose over a period of 3 to 5 minutes every 12 hours .
2 .
Continuous Infusion – Slowly inject one - half of the total daily dose over 3 to 5 minutes .
Add the remaining half of the total daily dose of Colistimethate for Injection to one of the following : 0 . 9 % NaCl 5 % dextrose in 0 . 9 % NaCl 5 % dextrose in water 5 % dextrose in 0 . 45 % NaCl 5 % dextrose in 0 . 225 % NaCl Lactated Ringer ’ s solution 10 % invert sugar solution There is not sufficient data to recommend the usage of Colistimethate for Injection with other drugs or other than the above listed infusion solutions .
Administer the second half of the total daily dose by slow intravenous infusion , starting 1 to 2 hours after the initial dose , over the next 22 to 23 hours .
In the presence of impaired renal function , reduce the infusion rate depending on the degree of renal impairment .
The choice of intravenous solution and the volume to be employed are dictated by the requirements of fluid and electrolyte management .
Any final intravenous infusion solution containing colistimethate sodium should be freshly prepared and used for no longer than 24 hours .
INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION 1 .
For Intramuscular Injection , administer by deep intramuscular injection into a large muscle mass ( such as the gluteal muscles or lateral part of the thigh ) .
Store reconstituted solution for intramuscular injection in a refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) or between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) and use within 7 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Rx only Colistimethate for Injection USP is supplied in vials ( NDC 39822 - 0615 - 1 ) containing colistimethate sodium ( equivalent to 150 mg colistin base per vial ) as a white to slightly yellow lyophilized cake and is available as twelve vial per carton ( NDC 39822 - 0615 - 2 ) .
Storage and Handling Store between 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
( See USP controlled room temperature ) .
Store reconstituted solution in refrigerator 2 ˚ to 8 ˚ C ( 36 ˚ to 46 ˚ F ) or between 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) and use within 7 days .
Manufactured for : X - GEN Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Big Flats , NY 14814 Manufactured in the USA COLI - PI12 - 01 Revised September 2017 REFERENCES • CLSI .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing : Eighteenth Informational Supplement .
CLSI document M100 - S18 .
Wayne , PA : Clinical and Laboratory standards Institute , 2008 • CLSI .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard – Seventh Edition .
CLSI document M7 - A7 .
Wayne , PA : Clinical and Laboratory standards Institute , 2006 • Kroeger , LA , et al .
Colistin Methanesulfonate Against Multidrug - Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii in an In Vitro Pharmacodynamic Model .
Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy , Sep 2007 ; 51 ( 9 ) : 3431 - 3433 • Arnold , TM , et al .
Polymyxin antibiotics for gram - negative infections .
American Journal of Health - System Pharm , April 2007 ; 64 : 819 - 826 • Ratnam , I , et al .
In vitro activities of ' new ' and ' conventional ' antibiotics against multi - drug resistant Gram negative bacteria from patients in the intensive care unit .
Pathology .
2007 ; 39 ( 6 ) : 586 - 588 • Cunha , BA .
New Uses for Older Antibiotics : Nitrofurantoin , Amikacin , Colistin , Polymyxin B , Doxycycline , and Minocycline Revisited .
The Medical Clinicals of North America , 2006 ; 90 : 1089 - 1107 • Berlana , D . et al .
Use of colistin in the treatment of multiple - drug resistant gram - negative infections .
American Journal of Health - System Pharm , Jan2005 ; 62 : 39 - 47 • Garnacho - Montero , J , et al .
Treatment of Multidrug - Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Ventilator - Associated Pneumonia ( VAP ) with Intravenous colistin : A Comparison with Imipenem - Susceptible VAP .
Clinical Infectious Diseases , May 2003 ; 36 : 1111 - 1118 • Markou , N . et al .
Intravenous colistin in the treatment of sepsis from multiresistant Gram - negative bacilli in critically ill patients .
Critical Care , Oct 2003 ; 7 ( 5 ) : R78 - R83 • Levin AS , et al .
Intravenous Colistin as Therapy for Nosocomial Infections Caused by Multidrug - Resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii .
Clinical Infectious diseases , 1999 ; 28 : 1008 - 1011 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 39822 - 0615 - 1 Colistimethate for Injection , USP 150 mg Colistin Base Activity For Intramuscular and Intravenous Use Rx Only 1 Vial X - GEN Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 0615 - 1 Colistimethate for Injection , USP 150 mg Colistin Base Activity For Intramuscular and Intravenous Use Rx Only Single Vial Carton X - GEN Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 0615 - 2 Colistimethate for Injection , USP 150 mg Colistin Base Activity For Intramuscular and Intravenous Use Rx Only 12 Vial Tray Pack X - GEN Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
