Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone ( 3 % ) , Homosalate ( 10 % ) , Octisalate ( 5 % ) , Octocrylene ( 10 % ) Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• keep away from face to avoid breathing it • Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warning : FLAMMABLE .
Contents under pressure .
Do not use near fire , heat or while smoking .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Store at temperature below 120 ° F ( 48 ° C ) .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply .
Rub in .
• do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face .
Rub in .
• do not apply in windy conditions .
• use in a well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Polyester - 7 , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Neopentyl Glycol Diheptanoate , Fragrance , Avena Sativa ( Oat ) Kernel Oil , Ascorbyl Palmitate Questions ?
866 - 428 - 3366 ; Outside US , dial collect 215 - 273 - 8755 www . aveeno . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 141 g Can Label NEW WEIGHTLESS FORMULA DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED Aveeno ® PROTECT + REFRESH sunscreen BROAD - SPECTRUM UVA + UVB PROTECTION weightless spray with oat oxybenzone free sweat + water resistant ( 80 min ) SPF 60 NET WT .
5 . 0 OZ ( 141 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
