Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide ( 2 . 5 % ) Purpose Acne treatment Use For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water • avoid contact with hair or dyed products , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other Information • Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Water , Carbomer Homopolymer type B , Ethylhexylglycerin , Sodium Hydroxide , Chlorphenesin , Disodium EDTA , Laureth - 4 , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose Questions ?
800 - 582 - 4048 ; Outside US , dial collect 215 - 273 - 8755 or visit www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 g Tube Carton New Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND STUBBORN ACNE AM TREATMENT Benzoyl Peroxide Acne treatment works all day to help eliminate stubborn acne 2 . 5 % Micronized BPO NET WT .
2 . 0 OZ ( 56 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
