Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Use • For the treatment of acne • Penetrates pores to eliminate most blackheads .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , immediately flush with water .
• Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients Water , Propylene Glycol , Glycolic Acid , Dimethicone , Mandelic Acid , Gluconolactone , Sodium Hydroxide , Neopentyl Glycol Diheptanoate , Hydroxyethyl Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Polyacrylate Crosspolymer - 6 , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Disodium EDTA Other information • Store at room temperature .
• Sunburn Alert : This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product and for a week afterwards .
Questions ?
800 - 582 - 4048 ; Outside US , dial collect 215 - 273 - 8755 or visit www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Tube Carton New Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND STUBBORN BLACKHEADS DAILY SERUM Salicylic Acid Acne Treatment visibly clears clogged pores and helps eliminate blackheads 10 % Glycolic + Mandelic + Polyhydroxy Acids Fragrance - Free 1 . 0 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
