PRESCRIBING INFORMATION See boxed WARNING concerning long - term safety of topical calcineurin inhibitors DESCRIPTION Tacrolimus Ointment contains tacrolimus , a macrolide immunosuppressant produced by Streptomyces tsukubaensis .
It is for topical dermatologic use only .
Chemically , tacrolimus is designated as [ 3 S - [ 3 R * [ E ( 1 S * , 3 S * , 4 S * ) ] , 4 S * , 5 R * , 8 S * , 9 E , 12 R * , 14 R * , 15 S * , 16 R * , 18 S * , 19 S * , 26 aR * ] ] - 5 , 6 , 8 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 26 a - hexadecahydro - 5 , 19 - dihydroxy - 3 - [ 2 - ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxycyclohexyl ) - 1 - methylethenyl ] - 14 , 16 - dimethoxy - 4 , 10 , 12 , 18 - tetramethyl - 8 - ( 2 - propenyl ) - 15 , 19 - epoxy - 3 H - pyrido [ 2 , 1 - c ] [ 1 , 4 ] oxaazacyclotricosine - 1 , 7 , 20 , 21 ( 4 H , 23 H ) - tetrone , monohydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tacrolimus has an empirical formula of C44H69NO12 • H2O and a formula weight of 822 . 03 .
Each gram of Tacrolimus Ointment contains ( w / w ) either 0 . 03 % or 0 . 1 % of tacrolimus in a base of mineral oil with all - rac - α - tocopherol , paraffin , propylene carbonate , white petrolatum with butylhydroxytoluene , and white wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of tacrolimus in atopic dermatitis is not known .
While the following have been observed , the clinical significance of these observations in atopic dermatitis is not known .
It has been demonstrated that tacrolimus inhibits T - lymphocyte activation by first binding to an intracellular protein , FKBP - 12 .
A complex of tacrolimus - FKBP - 12 , calcium , calmodulin , and calcineurin is then formed and the phosphatase activity of calcineurin is inhibited .
This effect has been shown to prevent the dephosphorylation and translocation of nuclear factor of activated T - cells ( NF - AT ) , a nuclear component thought to initiate gene transcription for the formation of lymphokines ( such as interleukin - 2 , gamma interferon ) .
Tacrolimus also inhibits the transcription for genes which encode IL - 3 , IL - 4 , IL - 5 , GM - CSF , and TNF - α , all of which are involved in the early stages of T - cell activation .
Additionally , tacrolimus has been shown to inhibit the release of pre - formed mediators from skin mast cells and basophils , and to down regulate the expression of FcɛRI on Langerhans cells .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pooled results from three pharmacokinetic studies in 88 adult atopic dermatitis patients indicate that tacrolimus is minimally absorbed after the topical application of Tacrolimus Ointment .
Peak tacrolimus blood concentrations ranged from undetectable to 20 ng / mL after single or multiple doses of 0 . 03 % and 0 . 1 % Tacrolimus Ointment , with 85 % ( 75 / 88 ) of the patients having peak blood concentrations less than 2 ng / mL .
In general as treatment continued , systemic exposure declined as the skin returned to normal .
In clinical studies with periodic blood sampling , a similar distribution of tacrolimus blood levels was also observed in adult patients , with 90 % ( 1253 / 1391 ) of patients having a blood concentration less than 2 ng / mL .
The absolute bioavailability of tacrolimus from Tacrolimus Ointment in atopic dermatitis patients is approximately 0 . 5 % .
In adults with an average of 53 % BSA treated , exposure ( AUC ) of tacrolimus from Tacrolimus Ointment is approximately 30 - fold less than that seen with oral immunosuppressive doses in kidney and liver transplant patients .
Mean peak tacrolimus blood concentrations following oral administration ( 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ) in adult kidney transplant ( n = 26 ) and liver transplant ( n = 17 ) patients are 24 . 2 ± 15 . 8 ng / mL and 68 . 5 ± 30 . 0 ng / mL , respectively .
The lowest tacrolimus blood level at which systemic effects ( e . g . , immunosuppression ) can be observed is not known .
Systemic levels of tacrolimus have also been measured in pediatric patients ( see Special Populations : Pediatrics ) .
Distribution The plasma protein binding of tacrolimus is approximately 99 % and is independent of concentration over a range of 5 - 50 ng / mL .
Tacrolimus is bound mainly to albumin and alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein , and has a high level of association with erythrocytes .
The distribution of tacrolimus between whole blood and plasma depends on several factors , such as hematocrit , temperature at the time of plasma separation , drug concentration , and plasma protein concentration .
In a US study , the ratio of whole blood concentration to plasma concentration averaged 35 ( range 12 to 67 ) .
There was no evidence based on blood concentrations that tacrolimus accumulates systemically upon intermittent topical application for periods of up to 1 year .
As with other topical calcineurin inhibitors , it is not known whether tacrolimus is distributed into the lymphatic system .
Metabolism Tacrolimus is extensively metabolized by the mixed - function oxidase system , primarily the cytochrome P - 450 system ( CYP3A ) .
A metabolic pathway leading to the formation of 8 possible metabolites has been proposed .
Demethylation and hydroxylation were identified as the primary mechanisms of biotransformation in vitro .
The major metabolite identified in incubations with human liver microsomes is 13 - demethyl tacrolimus .
In in vitro studies , a 31 - demethyl metabolite has been reported to have the same activity as tacrolimus .
Excretion The mean clearance following IV administration of tacrolimus is 0 . 040 , 0 . 083 and 0 . 053 L / hr / kg in healthy volunteers , adult kidney transplant patients and adult liver transplant patients , respectively .
In man , less than 1 % of the dose administered is excreted unchanged in urine .
In a mass balance study of IV administered radiolabeled tacrolimus to 6 healthy volunteers , the mean recovery of radiolabel was 77 . 8 ± 12 . 7 % .
Fecal elimination accounted for 92 . 4 ± 1 . 0 % and the elimination half - life based on radioactivity was 48 . 1 ± 15 . 9 hours whereas it was 43 . 5 ± 11 . 6 hours based on tacrolimus concentrations .
The mean clearance of radiolabel was 0 . 029 ± 0 . 015 L / hr / kg and clearance of tacrolimus was 0 . 029 ± 0 . 009 L / hr / kg .
When administered PO , the mean recovery of the radiolabel was 94 . 9 ± 30 . 7 % .
Fecal elimination accounted for 92 . 6 ± 30 . 7 % , urinary elimination accounted for 2 . 3 ± 1 . 1 % and the elimination half - life based on radioactivity was 31 . 9 ± 10 . 5 hours whereas it was 48 . 4 ± 12 . 3 hours based on tacrolimus concentrations .
The mean clearance of radiolabel was 0 . 226 ± 0 . 116 L / hr / kg and clearance of tacrolimus 0 . 172 ± 0 . 088 L / hr / kg .
Special Populations Pediatrics In a pharmacokinetic study of 14 pediatric atopic dermatitis patients , between the ages of 2 - 5 years , peak blood concentrations of tacrolimus ranged from undetectable to 14 . 8 ng / mL after single or multiple doses of 0 . 03 % Tacrolimus Ointment , with 86 % ( 12 / 14 ) of patients having peak blood concentrations below 2 ng / mL throughout the study .
The highest peak concentration was observed in one patient with 82 % BSA involvement on day 1 following application of 0 . 03 % Tacrolimus Ointment .
The peak concentrations for this subject were 14 . 8 ng / mL on day 1 and 4 . 1 ng / mL on day 14 .
Mean peak tacrolimus blood concentrations following oral administration in pediatric liver transplant patients ( n = 9 ) were 48 . 4 ± 27 . 9 ng / mL .
In a similar pharmacokinetic study with 61 enrolled pediatric patients ( ages 6 - 12 years ) with atopic dermatitis , peak tacrolimus blood concentrations ranged from undetectable to 5 . 3 ng / mL after single or multiple doses of 0 . 1 % Tacrolimus Ointment , with 91 % ( 52 / 57 ) of evaluable patients having peak blood concentrations below 2 ng / mL throughout the study period .
When detected , systemic exposure generally declined as treatment continued .
In clinical studies with periodic blood sampling , a similar distribution of tacrolimus blood levels was also observed , with 98 % ( 509 / 522 ) of pediatric patients having a blood concentration below 2 ng / mL .
Renal Insufficiency The effect of renal insufficiency on the pharmacokinetics of topically administered tacrolimus has not been evaluated .
The mean clearance of IV administered tacrolimus in patients with renal dysfunction was similar to that of normal volunteers .
On the basis of this information dose - adjustment is not expected to be needed .
Hepatic Insufficiency The effect of hepatic insufficiency on the pharmacokinetics of topically administered tacrolimus has not been evaluated but dose - adjustment is not expected to be needed .
CLINICAL STUDIES Three randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , multi - center , phase 3 studies were conducted to evaluate Tacrolimus Ointment for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis .
One ( Pediatric ) study included 351 patients 2 - 15 years of age , and the other two ( Adult ) studies included a total of 632 patients 15 - 79 years of age .
Fifty - five percent ( 55 % ) of the patients were women and 27 % were black .
At baseline , 58 % of the patients had severe disease and the mean body surface area ( BSA ) affected was 46 % .
Over 80 % of patients had atopic dermatitis affecting the face and / or neck region .
In these studies , patients applied either Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % , Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % , or vehicle ointment twice daily to 10 % - 100 % of their BSA for up to 12 weeks .
In the pediatric study , a significantly greater ( p < 0 . 001 ) percentage of patients achieved at least 90 % improvement based on the physician ’ s global evaluation of clinical response ( the pre - defined primary efficacy endpoint ) in the Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % treatment group compared to the vehicle treatment group , but there was insufficient evidence that Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % provided more efficacy than Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % .
In both adult studies , a significantly greater ( p < 0 . 001 ) percentage of patients achieved at least 90 % improvement based on the physician ’ s global evaluation of clinical response in the Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % and Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % treatment groups compared to the vehicle treatment group .
There was evidence that Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % may provide more efficacy than Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % .
The difference in efficacy between Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % and 0 . 03 % was particularly evident in adult patients with severe disease at baseline , adults with extensive BSA involvement , and black adults .
Response rates for each treatment group are shown below by age groups .
Because the two adult studies were identically designed , the results from these studies were pooled in this table .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] A statistically significant difference in the percentage of adult patients with ≥ 90 % improvement was achieved by week 1 for those treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % , and by week 3 for those treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % .
A statistically significant difference in the percentage of pediatric patients with ≥ 90 % improvement was achieved by week 2 for those treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % .
In adult patients who had achieved ≥ 90 % improvement at the end of treatment , 35 % of those treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % and 41 % of those treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % , regressed from this state of improvement at 2 weeks after end - of - treatment .
In pediatric patients who had achieved ≥ 90 % improvement , 54 % of those treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % regressed from this state of improvement at 2 weeks after end - of - treatment .
Because patients were not followed for longer than 2 weeks after end - of - treatment , it is not known how many additional patients regressed at periods longer than 2 weeks after cessation of therapy .
In both Tacrolimus Ointment treatment groups in adults and in the Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % treatment group in pediatric patients , a significantly greater improvement compared to vehicle ( p < 0 . 001 ) was observed in the secondary efficacy endpoints of percent body surface area involved , patient evaluation of pruritus , erythema , edema , excoriation , oozing , scaling , and lichenification .
The following two graphs depict the time course of improvement in the percent body surface area affected in adult and in pediatric patients as a result of treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The following two graphs depict the time course of improvement in erythema in adult and in pediatric patients as a result of treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The time course of improvement in the remaining secondary efficacy variables was similar to that of erythema , with improvement in lichenification slightly slower .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus Ointment , both 0 . 03 % and 0 . 1 % for adults , and only 0 . 03 % for children aged 2 to 15 years , is indicated as second - line therapy for the short - term and non - continuous chronic treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in non - immunocompromised adults and children who have failed to respond adequately to other topical prescription treatments for atopic dermatitis , or when those treatments are not advisable .
Tacrolimus Ointment is not indicated for children younger than 2 years of age ( see boxed WARNING , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tacrolimus Ointment is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or any other component of the ointment .
WARNINGS WARNING Long - term Safety of Topical Calcineurin Inhibitors Has Not Been Established Although a causal relationship has not been established , rare cases of malignancy ( e . g . , skin and lymphoma ) have been reported in patients treated with topical calcineurin inhibitors , including Tacrolimus Ointment .
Therefore : • Continuous long - term use of topical calcineurin inhibitors , including Tacrolimus Ointment , in any age group should be avoided , and application limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis .
• Tacrolimus Ointment is not indicated for use in children less than 2 years of age .
Only 0 . 03 % Tacrolimus Ointment is indicated for use in children 2 - 15 years of age .
Prolonged systemic use of calcineurin inhibitors for sustained immunosuppression in animal studies and transplant patients following systemic administration has been associated with an increased risk of infections , lymphomas , and skin malignancies .
These risks are associated with the intensity and duration of immunosuppression .
Based on the information above and the mechanism of action , there is a concern about potential risk with the use of topical calcineurin inhibitors , including Tacrolimus Ointment .
While a causal relationship has not been established , rare cases of skin malignancy and lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with topical calcineurin inhibitors , including Tacrolimus Ointment .
Therefore : • Tacrolimus Ointment should not be used in immunocompromised adults and children .
• If signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis do not improve within 6 weeks , patients should be re - examined by their healthcare provider and their diagnosis be confirmed ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
• The safety of Tacrolimus Ointment has not been established beyond one year of non - continuous use .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , boxed WARNING , INDICATIONS AND USAGE , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
PRECAUTIONS General The use of Tacrolimus Ointment should be avoided on pre - malignant and malignant skin conditions .
Some malignant skin conditions , such as cutaneous T - cell lymphoma ( CTCL ) , may mimic atopic dermatitis .
The use of tacrolimus ointment is not recommended in patients having skin conditions with a skin barrier defect where there is the potential for increased systemic absorption of tacrolimus , including but not limited to , Netherton ’ s syndrome , lamellar ichthyosis , generalized erythroderma or cutaneous Graft Versus Host Disease .
Oral application is also not recommended .
Post - marketing cases of increased tacrolimus blood level have been reported in these conditions .
The use of Tacrolimus Ointment may cause local symptoms such as skin burning ( burning sensation , stinging , soreness ) or pruritus .
Localized symptoms are most common during the first few days of Tacrolimus Ointment application and typically improve as the lesions of atopic dermatitis resolve .
With Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % , 90 % of the skin burning events had a duration between 2 minutes and 3 hours ( median 15 minutes ) .
90 % of the pruritus events had a duration between 3 minutes and 10 hours ( median 20 minutes ) ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Bacterial and Viral Skin Infections Before commencing treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment , cutaneous bacterial or viral infections at treatment sites should be resolved .
Studies have not evaluated the safety and efficacy of Tacrolimus Ointment in the treatment of clinically infected atopic dermatitis .
While patients with atopic dermatitis are predisposed to superficial skin infections including eczema herpeticum ( Kaposi ’ s varicelliform eruption ) , treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment may be independently associated with an increased risk of varicella zoster virus infection ( chicken pox or shingles ) , herpes simplex virus infection , or eczema herpeticum .
Patients with Lymphadenopathy In clinical studies , 112 / 13494 ( 0 . 8 % ) cases of lymphadenopathy were reported and were usually related to infections ( particularly of the skin ) and noted to resolve upon appropriate antibiotic therapy .
Of these 112 cases , the majority had either a clear etiology or were known to resolve .
Transplant patients receiving immunosuppressive regimens ( e . g . , systemic tacrolimus ) are at increased risk for developing lymphoma ; therefore , patients who receive Tacrolimus Ointment and who develop lymphadenopathy should have the etiology of their lymphadenopathy investigated .
In the absence of a clear etiology for the lymphadenopathy , or in the presence of acute infectious mononucleosis , Tacrolimus Ointment should be discontinued .
Patients who develop lymphadenopathy should be monitored to ensure that the lymphadenopathy resolves .
Sun Exposure During the course of treatment , patients should minimize or avoid natural or artificial sunlight exposure , even while Tacrolimus Ointment is not on the skin .
It is not known whether Tacrolimus Ointment interferes with skin response to ultraviolet damage .
Immunocompromised Patients The safety and efficacy of Tacrolimus Ointment in immunocompromised patients have not been studied .
Renal Insufficiency Rare post - marketing cases of acute renal failure have been reported in patients treated with Tacrolimus Ointment .
Systemic absorption is more likely to occur in patients with epidermal barrier defects especially when Tacrolimus Ointment is applied to large body surface areas .
Caution should also be exercised in patients predisposed to renal impairment .
Information for Patients ( See Medication Guide ) Patients using Tacrolimus Ointment should receive and understand the information in the Medication Guide .
Please refer to the Medication Guide for providing instruction and information to the patient .
What is the most important information patients should know about Tacrolimus Ointment ?
The safety of using Tacrolimus Ointment for a long period of time is not known .
A very small number of people who have used Tacrolimus Ointment have had cancer ( for example , skin or lymphoma ) .
However , a link with Tacrolimus Ointment has not been shown .
Because of this concern , instruct patients : • Do not use Tacrolimus Ointment continuously for a long time .
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment only on areas of skin that have eczema .
• Do not use Tacrolimus Ointment on a child under 2 years old .
Tacrolimus Ointment comes in two strengths : • Only Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % is for use on children aged 2 to 15 years .
• Either Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % or 0 . 1 % can be used by adults and children 16 years and older .
Advise patients to talk to their prescriber for more information .
How should Tacrolimus Ointment be used ?
Advise patients to : • Use Tacrolimus Ointment exactly as prescribed .
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment only on areas of skin that have eczema .
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment for short periods , and if needed , treatment may be repeated with breaks in between .
• Stop Tacrolimus Ointment when the signs and symptoms of eczema , such as itching , rash , and redness go away , or as directed .
• Follow their doctor ’ s advice if symptoms of eczema return after treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment .
• Call their doctor if : • Their symptoms get worse with Tacrolimus Ointment .
• They get an infection on their skin .
• Their symptoms do not improve after 6 weeks of treatment .
Sometimes other skin diseases can look like eczema .
To apply Tacrolimus Ointment : Advise patients : • Wash their hands before applying Tacrolimus Ointment .
• Apply a thin layer of Tacrolimus Ointment twice daily to the areas of skin affected by eczema .
• Use the smallest amount of Tacrolimus Ointment needed to control the signs and symptoms of eczema .
• If they are a caregiver applying Tacrolimus Ointment to a patient , or if they are a patient who is not treating their hands , wash their hands with soap and water after applying Tacrolimus Ointment .
This should remove any ointment left on the hands .
• Do not bathe , shower , or swim right after applying Tacrolimus Ointment .
This could wash off the ointment .
• Moisturizers can be used with Tacrolimus Ointment .
Make sure they check with their doctor first about the products that are right for them .
Because the skin of patients with eczema can be very dry , it is important to keep up good skin care practices .
If they use moisturizers , apply them after Tacrolimus Ointment .
What should patients avoid while using Tacrolimus Ointment ?
Advise patients : • Do not use ultraviolet light therapy , sun lamps , or tanning beds during treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment .
• Limit sun exposure during treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment even when the medicine is not on their skin .
If patients need to be outdoors after applying Tacrolimus Ointment , wear loose fitting clothing that protects the treated area from the sun .
Doctors should advise what other types of protection from the sun patients should use .
• Do not cover the skin being treated with bandages , dressings or wraps .
Patients can wear normal clothing .
• Avoid getting Tacrolimus Ointment in the eyes or mouth .
Do not swallow Tacrolimus Ointment .
Patients should call their doctor if they swallow Tacrolimus Ointment .
Drug Interactions Formal topical drug interaction studies with Tacrolimus Ointment have not been conducted .
Based on its extent of absorption , interactions of Tacrolimus Ointment with systemically administered drugs are unlikely to occur but cannot be ruled out ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
The concomitant administration of known CYP3A4 inhibitors in patients with widespread and / or erythrodermic disease should be done with caution .
Some examples of such drugs are erythromycin , itraconazole , ketoconazole , fluconazole , calcium channel blockers and cimetidine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of genotoxicity was seen in bacterial ( Salmonella and E . coli ) or mammalian ( Chinese hamster lung - derived cells ) in vitro assays of mutagenicity , the in vitro CHO / HGPRT assay of mutagenicity , or in vivo clastogenicity assays performed in mice .
Tacrolimus did not cause unscheduled DNA synthesis in rodent hepatocytes .
Oral ( feed ) carcinogenicity studies have been carried out with systemically administered tacrolimus in male and female rats and mice .
In the 80 - week mouse study and in the 104 - week rat study no relationship of tumor incidence to tacrolimus dosage was found at daily doses up to 3 mg / kg [ 9 X the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) based on AUC comparisons ] and 5 mg / kg ( 3 X the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) , respectively .
A 104 - week dermal carcinogenicity study was performed in mice with tacrolimus ointment ( 0 . 03 % - 3 % ) , equivalent to tacrolimus doses of 1 . 1 - 118 mg / kg / day or 3 . 3 - 354 mg / m2 / day .
In the study , the incidence of skin tumors was minimal and the topical application of tacrolimus was not associated with skin tumor formation under ambient room lighting .
However , a statistically significant elevation in the incidence of pleomorphic lymphoma in high dose male ( 25 / 50 ) and female animals ( 27 / 50 ) and in the incidence of undifferentiated lymphoma in high dose female animals ( 13 / 50 ) was noted in the mouse dermal carcinogenicity study .
Lymphomas were noted in the mouse dermal carcinogenicity study at a daily dose of 3 . 5 mg / kg ( 0 . 1 % tacrolimus ointment ) ( 26 X MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in the mouse dermal carcinogenicity study at a daily dose of 1 . 1 mg / kg ( 0 . 03 % tacrolimus ointment ) ( 10 X MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
In a 52 - week photocarcinogenicity study , the median time to onset of skin tumor formation was decreased in hairless mice following chronic topical dosing with concurrent exposure to UV radiation ( 40 weeks of treatment followed by 12 weeks of observation ) with tacrolimus ointment at ≥ 0 . 1 % tacrolimus .
Reproductive toxicology studies were not performed with topical tacrolimus .
In studies of oral tacrolimus no impairment of fertility was seen in male and female rats .
Tacrolimus , given orally at 1 . 0 mg / kg ( 0 . 12 X MRHD based on body surface area [ BSA ] ) to male and female rats , prior to and during mating , as well as to dams during gestation and lactation , was associated with embryolethality and with adverse effects on female reproduction .
Effects on female reproductive function ( parturition ) and embryolethal effects were indicated by a higher rate of pre - implantation loss and increased numbers of undelivered and nonviable pups .
When given at 3 . 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 43 X MRHD based on BSA ) , tacrolimus was associated with maternal and paternal toxicity as well as reproductive toxicity including marked adverse effects on estrus cycles , parturition , pup viability , and pup malformations .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of topically administered tacrolimus in pregnant women .
The experience with Tacrolimus Ointment when used by pregnant women is too limited to permit assessment of the safety of its use during pregnancy .
Reproduction studies were carried out with systemically administered tacrolimus in rats and rabbits .
Adverse effects on the fetus were observed mainly at oral dose levels that were toxic to dams .
Tacrolimus at oral doses of 0 . 32 and 1 . 0 mg / kg ( 0 . 04 X - 0 . 12 X MRHD based on BSA ) during organogenesis in rabbits was associated with maternal toxicity as well as an increase in incidence of abortions .
At the higher dose only , an increased incidence of malformations and developmental variations was also seen .
Tacrolimus , at oral doses of 3 . 2 mg / kg during organogenesis in rats , was associated with maternal toxicity and caused an increase in late resorptions , decreased numbers of live births , and decreased pup weight and viability .
Tacrolimus , given orally at 1 . 0 and 3 . 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 04 X - 0 . 12 X MRHD based on BSA ) to pregnant rats after organogenesis and during lactation , was associated with reduced pup weights .
No reduction in male or female fertility was evident .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of systemically administered tacrolimus in pregnant women .
Tacrolimus is transferred across the placenta .
The use of systemically administered tacrolimus during pregnancy has been associated with neonatal hyperkalemia and renal dysfunction .
Tacrolimus Ointment should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies a potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Although systemic absorption of tacrolimus following topical applications of Tacrolimus Ointment is minimal relative to systemic administration , it is known that tacrolimus is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from tacrolimus , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Tacrolimus Ointment is not indicated for children less than 2 years of age .
Only the lower concentration , 0 . 03 % , of Tacrolimus Ointment is recommended for use as a second - line therapy for short - term and non - continuous chronic treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in non - immunocompromised children 2 to 15 years of age who have failed to respond adequately to other topical prescription treatments for atopic dermatitis , or when those treatments are not advisable .
The long - term safety and effects of Tacrolimus Ointment on the developing immune system are unknown ( see boxed WARNING , WARNINGS and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Four studies were conducted involving a total of about 4 , 400 patients 2 - 15 years of age : one 12 - week randomized vehicle - controlled study and three open - label safety studies of one to three years duration .
About 2 , 500 of these patients were 2 to 6 years of age .
The most common adverse events from these studies associated with Tacrolimus Ointment application in pediatric patients were skin burning and pruritus ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In addition to skin burning and pruritus , the less common events ( < 5 % ) of varicella zoster ( mostly chicken pox ) , and vesiculobullous rash were more frequent in patients treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % compared to vehicle .
In the open - label safety studies , the incidence of adverse events , including infections , did not increase with increased duration of study drug exposure or amount of ointment used .
In about 4 , 400 pediatric patients treated with Tacrolimus Ointment , 24 ( 0 . 5 % ) were reported with eczema herpeticum .
Since the safety and efficacy of Tacrolimus Ointment have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age , its use in this age group is not recommended .
In an open - label study , immune response to a 23 - valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine was assessed in 23 children 2 to 12 years old with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % .
Protective antibody titers developed in all patients .
Similarly , in a seven - month , double - blind trial , the vaccination response to meningococcal serogroup C was equivalent in children 2 to 11 years old with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis treated with Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % ( n = 121 ) , a hydrocortisone ointment regimen ( n = 111 ) , or normal children ( n = 44 ) .
Geriatric Use Four hundred and four ( 404 ) patients ≥ 65 years old received Tacrolimus Ointment in phase 3 studies .
The adverse event profile for these patients was consistent with that for other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No phototoxicity and no photoallergenicity were detected in clinical studies with 12 and 216 normal volunteers , respectively .
One out of 198 normal volunteers showed evidence of sensitization in a contact sensitization study .
In three 12 week randomized vehicle - controlled studies and four safety studies , 655 and 9 , 163 patients respectively , were treated with Tacrolimus Ointment .
The duration of follow - up for adult and pediatric patients in the safety studies is tabulated below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The following table depicts the adjusted incidence of adverse events pooled across the 3 identically designed 12 - week controlled studies for patients in vehicle , Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % , and Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % treatment groups .
The table also depicts the unadjusted incidence of adverse events in four safety studies , regardless of relationship to study drug .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] † May be reasonably associated with the use of this drug product ‡ All the herpes zoster cases in the pediatric 12 - week study and the majority of cases in the open - label pediatric studies were reported as chicken pox .
‡‡ Generally “ warts ” .
Other adverse events which occurred at an incidence between 0 . 2 % and less than 1 % in clinical studies in the above table include : abnormal vision , abscess , anaphylactoid reaction , anemia , anorexia , anxiety , arthritis , arthrosis , bilirubinemia , blepharitis , bone disorder , breast neoplasm benign , bursitis , cataract NOS , chest pain , chills , colitis , conjunctival edema , constipation , cramps , cutaneous moniliasis , cystitis , dehydration , dizziness , dry eyes , dry mouth / nose , dyspnea , ear disorder , ecchymosis , edema , epistaxis , eye pain , furunculosis , gastritis , gastrointestinal disorder , hernia , hypercholesterolemia , hypertonia , hypothyroidism , joint disorder , laryngitis , leukoderma , lung disorder , malaise , migraine , moniliasis , mouth ulceration , nail disorder , neck pain , neoplasm benign , oral moniliasis , otitis externa , photosensitivity reaction , rectal disorder , seborrhea , skin carcinoma , skin discoloration , skin hypertrophy , skin ulcer , stomatitis , tendon disorder , thinking abnormal , tooth caries , sweating , syncope , tachycardia , taste perversion , unintended pregnancy , vaginal moniliasis , vaginitis , valvular heart disease , vasodilatation , and vertigo .
Post - Marketing Events The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Tacrolimus Ointment .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
CNS Seizures Neoplasms Lymphomas , basal cell carcinoma , squamous cell carcinoma , malignant melanoma Infections Bullous impetigo , osteomyelitis , septicemia Renal Acute renal failure in patients with or without Netherton ’ s syndrome , renal impairment Skin Rosacea , application site edema [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE Tacrolimus Ointment is not for oral use .
Oral ingestion of Tacrolimus Ointment may lead to adverse effects associated with systemic administration of tacrolimus .
If oral ingestion occurs , medical advice should be sought .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULT Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % and 0 . 1 % • Apply a thin layer of Tacrolimus Ointment to the affected skin twice daily .
The minimum amount should be rubbed in gently and completely to control signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis .
Stop using when signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis resolve .
• If signs and symptoms ( e . g . itch , rash , and redness ) do not improve within 6 weeks , patients should be re - examined by their healthcare provider to confirm the diagnosis of atopic dermatitis .
• Continuous long - term use of topical calcineurin inhibitors , including Tacrolimus Ointment should be avoided , and application should be limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis .
The safety of Tacrolimus Ointment under occlusion , which may promote systemic exposure , has not been evaluated .
Tacrolimus Ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings .
PEDIATRIC – FOR CHILDREN 2 - 15 YEARS Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % • Apply a thin layer of Tacrolimus Ointment , 0 . 03 % to the affected skin twice daily .
The minimum amount should be rubbed in gently and completely to control signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis .
Stop using when signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis resolve .
• If signs and symptoms ( e . g . itch , rash , and redness ) do not improve within 6 weeks , patients should be re - examined by their healthcare provider to confirm the diagnosis of atopic dermatitis .
• Continuous long - term use of topical calcineurin inhibitors , including Tacrolimus Ointment should be avoided , and application should be limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis .
The safety of Tacrolimus Ointment under occlusion , which may promote systemic exposure , has not been evaluated .
Tacrolimus Ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % NDC 45802 - 390 - 00 30 gram laminate tube NDC 45802 - 390 - 01 60 gram laminate tube NDC 45802 - 390 - 02 100 gram laminate tube Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % NDC 45802 - 700 - 00 30 gram laminate tube NDC 45802 - 700 - 01 60 gram laminate tube NDC 45802 - 700 - 02 100 gram laminate tube Store at room temperature 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : LEO ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] LEO Laboratories Ltd .
285 Cashel Road Dublin 12 , Ireland Distributed by : Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 www . perrigo . com Revised : 02 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] MEDICATION GUIDE Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % Ointment 0 . 1 % Read the Medication Guide every time you or a family member gets Tacrolimus Ointment .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
If you have questions about Tacrolimus Ointment , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about Tacrolimus Ointment ?
The safety of using Tacrolimus Ointment for a long period of time is not known .
A very small number of people who have used Tacrolimus Ointment have had cancer ( for example , skin or lymphoma ) .
However , a link with Tacrolimus Ointment has not been shown .
Because of this concern : • Do not use Tacrolimus Ointment continuously for a long time .
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment only on areas of your skin that have eczema .
• Do not use Tacrolimus Ointment on a child under 2 years old .
Tacrolimus Ointment comes in two strengths : • Only Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % is for use on children aged 2 to 15 years .
• Either Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % or 0 . 1 % can be used by adults and children 16 years and older .
Talk to your doctor for more information .
What is Tacrolimus Ointment ?
Tacrolimus Ointment is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat eczema ( atopic dermatitis ) .
Tacrolimus Ointment is in a class of medicines called topical calcineurin inhibitors .
It is for adults and children 2 years of age and older who do not have a weakened immune system .
Tacrolimus Ointment is used on the skin for short periods , and if needed , treatment may be repeated with breaks in between .
Tacrolimus Ointment is for use after other prescription medicines have not worked for you , or if your doctor recommends that other prescription medicines should not be used .
Who should not use Tacrolimus Ointment ?
Tacrolimus Ointment should not be used : • on children younger than 2 years of age .
• if you are allergic to Tacrolimus Ointment or anything in it .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients .
What should I tell my doctor before starting Tacrolimus Ointment ?
Before you start using Tacrolimus Ointment , you and your doctor should talk about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a skin disease called Netherton ’ s syndrome ( a rare inherited condition ) .
• have any infection on your skin including chicken pox or herpes .
• have been told you have a weakened immune system .
• are pregnant , breastfeeding , or planning to become pregnant .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take and skin products you use including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I use Tacrolimus Ointment ?
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment exactly as prescribed .
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment only on areas of your skin that have eczema .
• Use Tacrolimus Ointment for short periods , and if needed , treatment may be repeated with breaks in between .
• Stop Tacrolimus Ointment when the signs and symptoms of eczema , such as itching , rash , and redness go away , or as directed by your doctor .
• Follow your doctor ’ s advice if symptoms of eczema return after treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment .
• Call your doctor if : • your symptoms get worse with Tacrolimus Ointment .
• you get an infection on your skin .
• your symptoms do not improve after 6 weeks of treatment .
Sometimes other skin diseases can look like eczema .
To apply Tacrolimus Ointment : • Wash your hands before applying Tacrolimus Ointment .
• Apply a thin layer of Tacrolimus Ointment twice daily to the areas of skin affected by eczema .
• Use the smallest amount of Tacrolimus Ointment needed to control the signs and symptoms of eczema .
• If you are a caregiver applying Tacrolimus Ointment to a patient , or if you are a patient who is not treating your hands , wash your hands with soap and water after applying Tacrolimus Ointment .
This should remove any ointment left on the hands .
• Do not bathe , shower , or swim right after applying Tacrolimus Ointment .
This could wash off the ointment .
• You can use moisturizers with Tacrolimus Ointment .
Make sure you check with your doctor first about the products that are right for you .
Because the skin of patients with eczema can be very dry , it is important to keep up good skin care practices .
If you use moisturizers , apply them after Tacrolimus Ointment .
What should I avoid while using Tacrolimus Ointment ?
• Do not use ultraviolet light therapy , sun lamps , or tanning beds during treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment .
• Limit sun exposure during treatment with Tacrolimus Ointment even when the medicine is not on your skin .
If you need to be outdoors after applying Tacrolimus Ointment , wear loose fitting clothing that protects the treated area from the sun .
Ask your doctor what other types of protection from the sun you should use .
• Do not cover the skin being treated with bandages , dressings or wraps .
You can wear normal clothing .
• Avoid getting Tacrolimus Ointment in the eyes or mouth .
Do not swallow Tacrolimus Ointment .
If you do , call your doctor .
What are the possible side effects of Tacrolimus Ointment ?
Please read the first section of this Medication Guide .
The most common side effects of Tacrolimus Ointment at the skin application site are stinging , burning , or itching of the skin treated with Tacrolimus Ointment .
These side effects are usually mild to moderate , are most common during the first few days of treatment , and usually go away as your skin heals .
Other side effects include acne , swollen or infected hair follicles , headache , increased sensitivity of the skin to hot or cold temperatures , or flu - like symptoms such as the common cold and stuffy nose , skin tingling , upset stomach , muscle pain , swollen glands ( enlarged lymph nodes ) , or skin infections including cold sores , chicken pox or shingles .
Talk to your doctor if you have a skin infection or if side effects ( for example , swollen glands ) continue or bother you .
While you are using Tacrolimus Ointment , drinking alcohol may cause the skin or face to become flushed or red and feel hot .
These are not all the side effects with Tacrolimus Ointment .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Tacrolimus Ointment ?
• Store Tacrolimus Ointment at room temperature ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Do not leave Tacrolimus Ointment in your car in cold or hot weather .
Make sure the cap on the tube is tightly closed .
• Keep Tacrolimus Ointment and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General advice about Tacrolimus Ointment Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Tacrolimus Ointment for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Tacrolimus Ointment to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may not be right for them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about Tacrolimus Ointment .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
Your doctor or pharmacist can give you information about Tacrolimus Ointment that is written for health care professionals .
For more information , you can call Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 .
What are the ingredients in Tacrolimus Ointment ?
Active Ingredient : tacrolimus , either 0 . 03 % or 0 . 1 % Inactive Ingredients : mineral oil , paraffin , propylene carbonate , white petrolatum , white wax , all - rac - α - tocopherol and butylhydroxytoluene .
Manufactured by : LEO ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] LEO Laboratories Ltd .
285 Cashel Road Dublin 12 , Ireland Distributed by : Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 www . perrigo . com This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 02 / 2019 PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL FOR TACROLIMUS OINTMENT 0 . 03 % NDC 45802 - 390 - 00 Rx only Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 03 % 30 g Attention : Dispense with enclosed Medication Guide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL FOR TACROLIMUS OINTMENT 0 . 1 % NDC 45802 - 700 - 00 Rx only Tacrolimus Ointment 0 . 1 % 30 g Attention : Dispense with enclosed Medication Guide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
