DESCRIPTION Dexamethasone sodium phosphate ophthalmic solution is a clear , colorless to pale yellow topical steroid solution for ophthalmic or otic administration .
Glucocorticoids are adrenocortical steroids , both naturally occurring and synthetic .
Dexamethasone is a synthetic analog of naturally occurring glucocorticoids ( hydrocortisone and cortisone ) .
Dexamethasone sodium phosphate is a water soluble , inorganic ester of dexamethasone .
It is approximately three thousand times more soluble in water at 25 ° C than hydrocortisone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16α - methyl - 21 - [ phosphonooxy ] pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione disodium salt .
Each mL contains : Active : dexamethasone sodium phosphate [ equivalent to 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) dexamethasone phosphate ] .
Inactives : sodium citrate , sodium borate , creatinine , polysorbate 80 , edetate disodium dihydrate , purified water .
Hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust pH ( 6 . 6 - 7 . 8 ) .
Preservatives : sodium bisulfite 0 . 1 % , phenylethyl alcohol 0 . 25 % , benzalkonium chloride 0 . 02 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dexamethasone sodium phosphate suppresses the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and it probably delays or slows healing .
No generally accepted explanation of these steroid properties has been advanced .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of the following conditions : Ophthalmic : Steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe , such as allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctate keratitis , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivitis when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation ; corneal injury from chemical or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
Otic : Steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the external auditory meatus , such as allergic otitis externa , selected purulent and nonpurulent infective otitis externa when the hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) .
Acute infectious stages of vaccinia , varicella , and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
Mycobacterial infection of the eye .
Fungal diseases of ocular or auricular structures .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product , including sulfites ( see WARNINGS ) .
Perforation of a drum membrane .
WARNINGS Prolonged use may result in ocular hypertension and / or glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical corticosteroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye or ear , corticosteroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Employment of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex other than epithelial herpes simplex keratitis , in which it is contraindicated , requires great caution ; periodic slit - lamp microscopy is essential .
This product contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS General The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged corticosteroid dosing .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ) .
Information for Patients Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular solutions , if handled improperly , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Patients should also be advised that if they develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma , ocular surgery or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ’ s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
One of the preservatives in dexamethasone sodium phosphate ophthalmic solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients wearing soft contact lenses should be instructed to wait at least 15 minutes after instilling dexamethasone sodium phosphate ophthalmic solution before they insert their lenses .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of dexamethasone sodium phosphate ophthalmic solution .
Pregnancy Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dexamethasone sodium phosphate ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Topically applied steroids are absorbed systemically .
Therefore , because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from dexamethasone sodium phosphate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , perforation of the globe .
Rarely , filtering blebs have been reported when topical steroids have been used following cataract surgery .
Rarely , stinging or burning may occur .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The duration of treatment will vary with the type of lesion and may extend from a few days to several weeks , according to therapeutic response .
Relapses , more common in chronic active lesions than in self - limited conditions , usually respond to treatment .
Eye : Instill one or two drops of solution into the conjunctival sac every hour during the day and every two hours during the night as initial therapy .
When a favorable response is observed , reduce dosage to one drop every four hours .
Later , further reduction in dosage to one drop three or four times daily may suffice to control symptoms .
Ear : Clean the aural canal thoroughly and sponge dry .
Instill the solution directly into the aural canal .
A suggested initial dosage is three or four drops two or three times a day .
When a favorable response is obtained , reduce dosage gradually and eventually discontinue .
If preferred , the aural canal may be packed with a gauze wick saturated with solution .
Keep the wick moist with the preparation and remove from the ear after 12 to 24 hours .
Treatment may be repeated as often as necessary at the discretion of the physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Dexamethasone sodium phosphate ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 1 % is supplied in a plastic squeeze bottle with a white cap and a controlled drop tip in the following size : NDC : 70518 - 0410 - 00 PACKAGING : 1 in 1 CARTON , 5 mL in 1 BOTTLE DROPPER , TYPE 0 Storage : Store between 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate GENERIC : Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate DOSAGE : SOLUTION / DROPS ADMINSTRATION : OPHTHALMIC NDC : 70518 - 0410 - 0 PACKAGING : 5 mL in 1 BOTTLE , DROPPER OUTER PACKAGING : 1 in 1 CARTON ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • DEXAMETHASONE SODIUM PHOSPHATE 1 mg in 1 mL INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE • CREATININE • EDETATE DISODIUM • HYDROCHLORIC ACID • PHENYLETHYL ALCOHOL • POLYSORBATE 80 • WATER • SODIUM BISULFITE • SODIUM BORATE • SODIUM CITRATE , UNSPECIFIED FORM [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
