1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FUROSCIX is indicated for the treatment of congestion due to fluid overload in adults with NYHA Class II / III chronic heart failure .
( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of Use FUROSCIX is not indicated for emergency situations or in patients with acute pulmonary edema .
( 1 . 2 ) The On - Body Infusor will deliver only an 80 - mg dose of FUROSCIX .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Congestion FUROSCIX is indicated for the treatment of congestion due to fluid overload in adult patients with New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) Class II and Class III chronic heart failure .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use FUROSCIX is not indicated for use in emergency situations or in patients with acute pulmonary edema .
The On - Body Infusor will deliver only an 80 - mg dose of FUROSCIX .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The single - use , on - body infusor is pre - programmed to deliver 30 mg of FUROSCIX over the first hour then 12 . 5 mg per hour for the subsequent 4 hours .
( 2 . 1 ) • FUROSCIX is not for chronic use and should be replaced with oral diuretics as soon as practical .
( 2 . 1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage The single - use , on - body Infusor with prefilled cartridge is pre - programmed to deliver 30 mg of FUROSCIX over the first hour followed by 12 . 5 mg per hour for the subsequent 4 hours [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
FUROSCIX is not for chronic use and should be replaced with oral diuretics as soon as practical .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions FUROSCIX is intended for use in a setting where the patient can limit their activity for the duration of administration .
FURSOSIX is not compatible with use in an MRI setting .
Inspect FUROSCIX prefilled cartridge prior to administration .
FUROSCIX is a clear to slightly yellow solution .
Do not use FUROSCIX if solution is discolored or cloudy [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
Refer to the Instructions for Use for additional information .
Load the prefilled cartridge of FUROSCIX into the on - body infusor and close the cartridge holder .
Peel away the adhesive liner on the on - body infusor and apply onto a clean , dry area of the abdomen between the top of the beltline and the bottom of the ribcage that is not tender , bruised , red or indurated .
The distance from the top of the beltline to the bottom of the ribcage should be at least 2 ½ inches .
Start the injection by firmly pressing and releasing the blue start button .
Do not remove until the injection is complete ( signaled by the solid green status light , beeping sound , and the white plunger rod filling the cartridge window ) .
Rotate the site of each subcutaneous administration .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 80 mg per 10 mL as a clear to slightly yellow solution in a single - dose prefilled cartridge for use only with co - packaged single - use , on - body infusor .
Injection : 80 mg per 10 mL in a single - dose prefilled cartridge co - packaged with a single - use on - body infusor .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • FUROSCIX is contraindicated in patients with anuria , • FUROSCIX is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to furosemide or medical adhesives • FUROSCIX is contraindicated in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or ascites .
• Anuria ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to furosemide or medical adhesives .
( 4 ) • Hepatic cirrhosis or ascites .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities : Monitor serum electrolytes , CO 2 , BUN , creatinine , glucose , and uric acid .
( 5 . 1 ) • Worsening Renal Function : Monitor for dehydration and azotemia .
( 5 . 2 ) • Ototoxicity : Avoid higher than recommended doses .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • Acute Urinary Retention : Monitor patients with symptoms of urinary retention .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities Furosemide may cause fluid , electrolyte , and metabolic abnormalities such as hypovolemia , hypokalemia , azotemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , hypomagnesemia , hypocalcemia , hyperglycemia , or hyperuricemia , particularly in patients receiving higher doses , patients with inadequate oral electrolyte intake , and in elderly patients .
Excessive diuresis may cause dehydration and blood volume reduction with circulatory collapse and possibly vascular thrombosis and embolism , particularly in elderly patients .
Serum electrolytes , CO 2 , BUN , creatinine , glucose , and uric acid should be monitored frequently during furosemide therapy .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis and ascites , sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic encephalopathy and coma .
Treatment in such patients is best initiated in the hospital with small doses and careful monitoring of the patient ’ s clinical status and electrolyte balance .
5 . 2 Worsening Renal Function Furosemide can cause dehydration and azotemia .
If increasing azotemia and oliguria occur during treatment of severe progressive renal disease , furosemide should be discontinued [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Ototoxicity Cases of tinnitus and reversible or irreversible hearing impairment and deafness have been reported with furosemide .
Reports usually indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection , severe renal impairment , the use of higher than recommended doses , hypoproteinemia or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics , ethacrynic acid , or other ototoxic drugs .
If the physician elects to use high - dose parenteral therapy , controlled intravenous infusion is advisable ( for adults , an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg furosemide per minute has been used ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Acute Urinary Retention In patients with severe symptoms of urinary retention ( because of bladder emptying disorders , prostatic hyperplasia , urethral narrowing ) , the administration of furosemide can cause acute urinary retention related to increased production and retention of urine .
These patients require careful monitoring , especially during the initial stages of treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of furosemide were identified in clinical trials or post - marketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions are categorized below by organ system and listed by decreasing severity .
Gastrointestinal System Reactions : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , increased liver enzymes , anorexia , oral and gastric irritation , cramping , diarrhea , constipation , nausea , vomiting .
Systemic Hypersensitivity Reactions : severe anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions ( e . g . , with shock ) , systemic vasculitis , interstitial nephritis , necrotizing angiitis .
Central Nervous System Reactions : tinnitus and hearing loss , paresthesias , vertigo , dizziness , headache , blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Hematologic Reactions : aplastic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , anemia , eosinophilia .
Dermatologic Hypersensitivity Reactions : toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , erythema multiforme , drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , exfoliative dermatitis , bullous pemphigoid , purpura , photosensitivity , rash .
Cardiovascular Reactions : orthostatic hypotension , increase in cholesterol and triglyceride serum levels .
Administration Site and Skin Reactions : erythema , bruising , edema , infusion site pain .
Other Reactions : glycosuria , muscle spasm , weakness , restlessness , urinary bladder spasm , thrombophlebitis , transient injection site pain following intramuscular injection , fever .
The most common adverse reactions during treatment with the Furoscix Infusor were administration site and skin reactions : erythema , bruising , edema and infusion site pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact scPharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 727 - 4276 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Aminoglycoside antibiotics : Increased potential ototoxicity of the antibiotics .
Avoid combination .
( 7 . 1 ) • Ethacrynic acid : Risk of ototoxicity .
Avoid combination ( 7 . 1 ) • Salicylates : Risk of salicylate toxicity .
( 7 . 1 ) • Cisplatin and nephrotoxic drugs : Risk of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity .
( 7 . 1 ) • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity .
( 7 . 1 ) • Renin - angiotensin inhibitors : Increased risk of hypotension and renal failure .
( 7 . 1 ) • Adrenergic blocking drugs : Risk of potentiation .
( 7 . 1 ) • Drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion : Risk of toxicity potentiation .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Furosemide on Other Drugs Drug / Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Aminoglycoside antibiotics Furosemide may increase the ototoxic potential of aminoglycoside antibiotics , especially in the presence of impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid combination except in life - threatening situations .
Ethacrynic acid Possibility of ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant use with ethacrynic acid .
Salicylates May experience salicylate toxicity at lower doses because of competitive renal excretory sites .
Monitor for symptoms of salicylate toxicity .
Cisplatin There is a risk of ototoxic effects if cisplatin and furosemide are given concomitantly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cisplatin and nephrotoxic drugs Nephrotoxicity Administer furosemide at lower doses and with positive fluid balance when used to achieve forced diuresis during cisplatin treatment .
Monitor renal function .
Paralytic agents Furosemide has a tendency to antagonize the skeletal muscle relaxing effect of tubocurarine and may potentiate the action of succinylcholine .
Monitor for skeletal muscle effect .
Lithium Furosemide reduces lithium ’ s renal clearance and add a high - risk of lithium toxicity .
Avoid concomitant use with lithium .
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers May lead to severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function , including renal failure .
Monitor for changes in blood pressure and renal function and interrupt or reduce the dosage of furosemide , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , or angiotensin receptor blockers if needed .
Antihypertensive drugs Furosemide may add to or potentiate the therapeutic effect of other antihypertensive drugs .
Monitor for changes in blood pressure and adjust the dose of other antihypertensive drugs if needed .
Adrenergic blocking drugs or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs Potentiation occurs .
Monitor for changes in blood pressure and adjust the dose of adrenergic blocking drugs if needed .
Norepinephrine Furosemide may decrease arterial responsiveness ( vasoconstricting effect ) to norepinephrine .
Monitor blood pressure ( or mean arterial pressure ) .
Chloral hydrate In isolated cases , intravenous administration of furosemide within 24 hours of taking chloral hydrate may lead to flushing , sweating attacks , restlessness , nausea , increase in blood pressure , and tachycardia .
Concomitant use with chloral hydrate is not recommended .
Methotrexate and other drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion Furosemide may decrease renal elimination of other drugs that undergo tubular secretion .
High - dose treatment of furosemide may result in elevated serum levels of these drugs and may potentiate their toxicity .
Monitor serum levels of drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion and adjust the dose if needed .
Cephalosporin Furosemide can increase the risk of cephalosporin - induced nephrotoxicity even in the setting of minor or transient renal impairment .
Monitor for changes in renal function .
Cyclosporine Increased risk of gouty arthritis secondary to furosemide - induced hyperuricemia and cyclosporine impairment of renal urate excretion .
Monitor serum urate levels .
Thyroid hormones High - doses ( > 80 mg ) of furosemide may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins and result in transient increase in free thyroid hormones , followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone levels .
Monitor the total thyroid hormone levels .
7 . 2 Effect of Other Drugs on Furosemide Drug / Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Phenytoin Phenytoin interferes directly with renal action of furosemide .
Monitor diuretic effects of furosemide and adjust the dose of furosemide if needed .
Methotrexate and other drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion May reduce the effect of furosemide .
High - dose treatment of methotrexate and these other drugs may result in elevated serum levels of furosemide and may potentiate the toxicity of furosemide .
Monitor for enhanced toxicity of furosemide .
Indomethacin Coadministration of indomethacin may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of furosemide in some patients by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis .
Indomethacin may also affect plasma renin levels , aldosterone excretion , and renin profile evaluation .
Patients receiving both indomethacin and furosemide should be observed closely to determine if the desired diuretic and / or antihypertensive effect of furosemide is achieved .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS See full prescribing information for use in pregnancy , during lactation , pediatric patients , or geriatric patients .
( 8 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published observational studies , case reports , and post marketing reports , from decades of use , have not demonstrated a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with furosemide use during pregnancy .
Untreated congestive heart failure and cirrhosis of the liver can lead to adverse outcomes for the mother and the fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , furosemide has been shown to cause unexplained maternal deaths and abortions in rabbits when administered orally during organogenesis at 4 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on body surface area ( BSA ) and oral bioavailability corrections , presumably secondary to volume depletion ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo / fetal Risk Pregnant women with congestive heart failure are at increased risk for pre - term birth .
Stroke volume and heart rate increase during pregnancy , increasing cardiac output , especially during the first trimester .
Clinical classification of heart disease may worsen with pregnancy and lead to maternal death and / or stillbirth .
Closely monitor pregnant patients for destabilization of their heart failure .
Pregnant women with symptomatic cirrhosis generally have poor outcomes including hepatic failure , variceal hemorrhage , pre - term delivery , fetal growth restriction and maternal death .
Outcomes are worse with coexisting esophageal varices .
Carefully monitor pregnant women with cirrhosis of the liver .
Data Animal Data The effects of furosemide on embryonic and fetal development and on pregnant dams were studied in mice , rats , and rabbits .
Furosemide caused unexplained maternal deaths and abortions in the rabbit at the lowest dose of 25 mg / kg ( approximately 4 times the human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections ) .
In another study , a dose of 50 mg / kg ( approximately 7 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections ) also caused maternal deaths and abortions when administered to rabbits between Days 12 and 17 of gestation .
In a third study , none of the pregnant rabbits survived an oral dose of 100 mg / kg .
Data from the above studies indicate fetal lethality that can precede maternal deaths .
The results of the mouse study and one of the three rabbit studies also showed an increased incidence and severity of hydronephrosis ( distention of the renal pelvis and , in some cases , of the ureters ) in fetuses of treated dams as compared with the incidence of fetuses from the control group .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The presence of furosemide has been reported in human breast milk .
There are no data on the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Doses of furosemide associated with clinically significant diuresis may impair milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for furosemide and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from furosemide or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy for pediatric use have not been established [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of subjects to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for the elderly patients should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
FUROSCIX is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The principal signs and symptoms of overdose with FUROSCIX are dehydration , blood volume reduction , hypotension , electrolyte imbalance , hypokalemia and hypochloremic alkalosis , and are extensions of its diuretic action .
The concentration of furosemide in biological fluids associated with toxicity or death is not known .
Treatment of overdosage is supportive and consists of replacement of excessive fluid and electrolyte losses .
Serum electrolytes , carbon dioxide level and blood pressure should be determined frequently .
Adequate drainage must be assured in patients with urinary bladder outlet obstruction ( such as prostatic hypertrophy ) .
Hemodialysis does not accelerate furosemide elimination .
11 DESCRIPTION FUROSCIX ( furosemide injection 80 mg / 10 mL ) is a loop diuretic which is an anthranilic acid derivative .
Chemically , it is 4 - chloro - N - furfuryl - 5 - sulfamoylanthranilic acid .
Furosemide is a white to slightly yellow crystalline powder .
It is sparingly soluble in alcohol , freely soluble in dilute alkali solutions and insoluble in dilute acids .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C 12 H 11 ClN 2 O 5 S Molecular Weight : 330 . 75 g / mol FUROSCIX is a single - dose prefilled cartridge co - packaged with a single - use , on - body infusor .
The single - dose prefilled cartridge contains 80 mg per 10 mL sterile , clear to slightly yellow , and non - pyrogenic furosemide solution .
The pH of FUROSCIX , 7 . 4 , differs from that of Furosemide Injection , USP .
Each 1 mL of FUROSCIX contains the following inactive ingredients : hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment if needed , sodium chloride ( 5 . 84 mg ) , sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment if needed , tris HCl ( 7 . 88 mg ) , and water for injection ( q . s . ) .
FUROSCIX is administered via a wearable , single - use , electromechanical ( battery powered , micro - processor controlled ) , on - body delivery system that is pre - programmed to deliver 80 mg of FUROSCIX over 5 - hours using a bi - phasic delivery profile .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Furosemide primarily inhibits the reabsorption of sodium and chloride in the proximal and distal tubules and in the loop of Henle .
The high degree of diuresis is largely due to the unique site of action .
The action on the distal tubule is independent of any inhibitory effect on carbonic anhydrase and aldosterone .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In patients with NYHA Class II and Class III heart failure , subcutaneous administration of FUROSCIX ( 30 mg furosemide over the first hour followed by 12 . 5 mg per hour for the subsequent 4 hours , total 80 mg furosemide ) produced similar diuresis and natriuresis to intravenous administration ( two 40 mg bolus doses separated by 120 minutes ) at 8 and 24 hour post - dose .
The duration of diuretic effect with FUROSCIX is up to 8 hours or more after initiation of dosing .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In patients with NYHA Class II - III congestive heart failure , subcutaneous infusion of FUROSCIX ( 30 mg furosemide over the first hour followed by 12 . 5 mg per hour for the subsequent 4 hours , 80 mg furosemide total ) , the bioavailability was 99 . 6 % ( 90 % CI : 94 . 8 , 104 . 8 ) with a median T max of 4 hours relative to 80 mg intravenous furosemide ( two 40 - mg bolus doses separated by 120 minutes ) .
The pharmacokinetic parameters of FUROSCIX are presented in Table 1 below : Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic Data of FUROSCIX Following Subcutaneous Infusion ( n = 15 ) Dose C max ( ng / mL ) AUC t ( ng × hr / mL ) T 1 / 2 ( hr ) AUC ∞ ( ng × hr / mL ) FUROSCIX : 30 mg subcutaneously infused over the first hour followed by 12 . 5 mg per hour for the subsequent 4 hours ( total dose : 80 mg furosemide ) 2040 ± 449 13000 ± 4000 3 . 2 ± 0 . 9 13100 ± 4010 Furosemide administered as 2 x 40 mg bolus doses intravenously , separated by 120 minutes ( total dose : 80 mg furosemide ) 8580 ± 2540 13000 ± 4050 2 . 6 ± 0 . 3 13200 ± 4170 The terminal half - life of furosemide is approximately 2 hours .
Distribution Furosemide is extensively bound to plasma proteins , mainly to albumin .
Plasma concentrations ranging from 1 mcg per mL to 400 mcg per mL are 91 % to 99 % bound in healthy individuals .
The unbound fraction averages 2 . 3 % to 4 . 1 % at therapeutic concentrations .
Furosemide binding to albumin may be reduced in elderly patients .
Metabolism Furosemide glucuronide is the only or at least the major biotransformation product of furosemide in man .
Elimination Significantly more furosemide is excreted in urine following the intravenous injection than after the tablet or oral solution .
Furosemide is predominantly excreted unchanged in the urine .
The renal clearance of furosemide after intravenous administration in older healthy male subjects ( 60 to 70 years of age ) is significantly less than in younger healthy male subjects ( 20 to 35 years of age ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Furosemide was tested for carcinogenicity by oral administration in one strain of mice and one strain of rats .
A small but significantly increased incidence of mammary gland carcinomas occurred in female mice at a dose approximately 8 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections .
There were marginal increases in uncommon tumors in male rats at a dose of 15 mg per kg ( slightly greater than the maximum human dose ) but not at 30 mg per kg .
Mutagenesis Furosemide was devoid of mutagenic activity in various strains of Salmonella typhimurium when tested in the presence or absence of an in vitro metabolic activation system , and questionably positive for gene mutation in mouse lymphoma cells in the presence of rat liver S9 at the highest dose tested .
Furosemide did not induce sister chromatid exchange in human cells in vitro , but other studies on chromosomal aberrations in human cells in vitro gave conflicting results .
In Chinese hamster cells it induced chromosomal damage but was questionably positive for sister chromatid exchange .
Studies on the induction by furosemide of chromosomal aberrations in mice were inconclusive .
The urine of rats treated with this drug did not induce gene conversion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .
Impairment of Fertility Furosemide produced no impairment of fertility in male or female rats , at 100 mg per kg per day ( the maximum effective diuretic dose in the rat ) , approximately 7 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING FUROSCIX is a sterile , clear to slightly yellow , non - pyrogenic liquid supplied in a single - dose prefilled cartridge for subcutaneous infusion co - packaged with the On - body Infusor .
Each single - use on - body infusor with prefilled cartridge is designed to deliver 80 mg of FUROSCIX in 10 mL solution over 5 - hours .
Carton containing one 80 mg / 10 mL prefilled cartridge co - packaged with one On - body Infusor NDC 71767 - 100 - 01 Store between 20 ° C and 25 ° C ( 68 ° F and 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate or freeze .
Protect FUROSCIX from light .
Do not remove the cartridge from carton until it is ready for use .
Do not use if the solution is discolored or cloudy .
Protect the On - body Infusor from water .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and / or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling [ see FDA - approved Instructions for Use ] .
Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities Advise patients that they may experience symptoms from excessive fluid and / or electrolyte losses .
The postural hypotension that sometimes occurs can usually be managed by getting up slowly .
Potassium supplements and / or dietary measures may be needed to control or avoid hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients that furosemide may increase blood glucose levels and thereby affect urine glucose tests [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Photosensitivity The skin of some patients may be more sensitive to the effects of sunlight while taking furosemide [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Advise hypertensive patients to avoid medications that may increase blood pressure , including over - the - counter products for appetite suppression and cold symptoms [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
For more information about FUROSCIX , go to www . FUROSCIX . com or call 1 - 855 - SCPHARMA ( 1 - 855 - 727 - 4276 ) scPharmaceuticals , Inc .
FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection 80 mg / 10 mL ) for subcutaneous use Manufactured for : scPharmaceuticals , Inc . , 2400 District Avenue , Suite 310 , Burlington , MA 01803 Patent Protected : www . scpharmaceuticals . com / patents LBL - 0071 Rev 04 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Model / REF # FUR - 80W5 LBL - 0063 R11 Instructions For Use On - Body Infusor for FUROSCIX ® [ fue roe ’ six ] ( furosemide injection ) for subcutaneous use Single - Use On - Body Infusor and 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) Prefilled Cartridge This Instructions for Use contains information about how to prepare and use FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor .
Before Starting • Read this Instructions for Use before using the FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor for the first time .
• You or a caregiver should receive training before using the Furoscix On - Body Infusor .
• Always wash your hands before starting .
• The FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor will deliver a fixed dose of 80 mg of furosemide over about 5 hours .
• The FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor delivers the medicine just under the skin ( subcutaneously ) .
• When the FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor is started , a small needle sticks into the skin to deliver the medicine .
The on - body Infusor signals when all the medicine has been delivered .
When the on - body Infusor is removed from the skin , a needle cover will extend over the needle to protect from an accidental needle stick .
Parts of the FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor and Prefilled Cartridge [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important Information • The on - body Infusor and prefilled cartridge are not made with natural rubber latex .
• The infusion will last about 5 hours .
During this time , you should limit your activity so that your bending movements are limited .
Wearing the Infusor while riding in a car or flying in an airplane is not recommended .
• You should notice an increase in urine production in about an hour after the infusion is started and may need to make frequent bathroom visits .
Be sure you have access to a bathroom for up to 8 hours after starting the infusion .
If you do not notice the need to go to the bathroom , call your healthcare provider .
• The on - body Infusor can only be used with the prefilled FUROSCIX cartridge supplied in the kit .
• Do not use any other cartridges or medicines inside the on - body Infusor .
• Do not apply lotions , oils , or ointments to the adhesion area of the abdomen prior to applying the on - body Infusor to the abdomen .
• Do not use the on - body Infusor if the packaging appears to be opened , or if the on - body Infusor has been dropped or appears to be broken or damaged .
• Do not use the on - body Infusor within 12 inches of mobile phones , tablets , computers or wireless accessories ( for example : TV remote control , Bluetooth computer keyboard or mouse ) .
• Do not use the on - body Infusor or prefilled cartridge after the expiration date on the carton .
• Do not use the prefilled cartridge if the liquid is discolored or cloudy .
The liquid in the prefilled cartridge should be clear to slightly yellow in color .
• Do not use the on - body Infusor in or around an MRI machine .
• Do not take the on - body Infusor off your skin while it is infusing , unless there is an emergency or a device error .
Removing the on - body Infusor before the infusion is done will result in a partial dose .
The on - body Infusor will stop infusing and it cannot be restarted .
Do not apply a new on - body Infusor unless instructed to do so by your healthcare provider .
• Do not reuse the on - body Infusor .
The on - body Infusor is for single use only .
• Do not let the on - body Infusor get wet from water or any other liquids .
Do not shower , bathe , swim or do activities that may make you sweat while wearing the on - body Infusor .
It contains parts that should not get wet .
Call your healthcare provider or scPharmaceuticals at 1 - 855 - SCPHARMA ( 1 - 855 - 727 - 4276 ) if you have any questions .
Storage Information • The FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor and prefilled cartridge should be stored at controlled room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) ( see Figure B ) .
Do not refrigerate or freeze .
• Keep the FUROSCIX prefilled cartridge in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage until you are ready to use .
• Keep the FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor and prefilled cartridge out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Prepare for the Infusion STEP 1 Wash Hands , Check Expiration Date and Remove Supplies from Carton 1 . 1 Wash your hands before using the on - body Infusor ( Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 2 Check the expiration date on the FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor carton ( see Figure D ) .
Do not use if the expiration date has passed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 3 Open the carton and peel away the white paper cover .
Remove the plastic cover from the clear tray .
Remove supplies from the carton and packaging ( see Figure E ) .
Do not use the on - body Infusor or prefilled cartridge if packaging appears to have been previously opened or damaged .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 4 Gather all materials needed for your injection , on a clean , well - lit work surface ( Figure F ) : • On - body Infusor and prefilled cartridge ( Included ) • Instructions For Use ( Included ) • Alcohol wipes ( Included ) • Clippers ( if needed ) ( Not included ) • Sharps disposal container ( Not included ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 2 Check On - Body Infusor and Prefilled Cartridge 2 . 1 Check the on - body Infusor and prefilled cartridge for any damage ( see Figure G ) .
Do not use the on - body Infusor or prefilled cartridge if either item appears to be damaged .
Do not touch the blue start button until the on - body Infusor is on the skin and you are ready to begin the infusion .
Do not touch or fully open the cartridge holder until you are ready to load the cartridge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Check the liquid medicine in the prefilled cartridge ( see Figure H ) .
The liquid in the prefilled cartridge should be clear to slightly yellow .
Do not use the prefilled cartridge if the liquid is discolored or cloudy .
Call scPharmaceuticals at : 1 - 855 - SCPHARMA ( 1 - 855 - 727 - 4276 ) or call your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 3 Load Prefilled Cartridge into the On - Body Infusor 3 . 1 Clean the tip ( small end ) of the prefilled cartridge with an alcohol wipe ( see Figure I ) .
Do not continue with the process of opening the cartridge holder all the way or loading the prefilled cartridge until you are ready to begin the infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 . 2 Open the cartridge holder all the way to turn on the on - body Infusor .
The on - body Infusor “ beeps ” and the indicator light will begin blinking blue ( see Figure J ) .
Note : Complete steps 3 . 3 through 6 . 1 within 30 minutes of fully opening the cartridge holder or the Infusor will alarm and cannot restart .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 . 3 Insert the prefilled cartridge into the cartridge holder with the tip pointed down ( see Figure K ) .
Note : The prefilled cartridge should slide into the cartridge holder easily .
If it does not slide in easily , check the prefilled cartridge to make sure the tip is pointed down and try again .
Do not press the blue start button until on - body Infusor is applied to skin and you are ready to begin the infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 . 4 Close the cartridge holder all the way until it is even with the rest of the on - body Infusor ( see Figure L ) .
You may hear a “ click ” sound when it is closed .
Note : If the indicator light blinks red and the on - body Infusor " beeps " , the on - body Infusor has experienced an internal error .
Do not use the on - body Infusor ( see On - Body Infusor Alarm section ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Apply the On - Body Infusor STEP 4 Select and Prepare Application Site 4 . 1 Select one site on the stomach on either side of the belly button ( navel ) .
The site should be a flat area below the rib cage and above the belt line ( see Figure M ) .
Do not select a site where the skin is irritated or broken .
Do not apply lotions , oils or ointments to the adhesion area of the abdomen .
Do not select a site where belts , waistbands or other types of clothing may rub against , disturb , or dislodge the on - body Infusor .
Note : Rotate application site ( side of the stomach ) each time if told by your healthcare provider to repeat dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 . 2 The site should be hairless or nearly hairless .
If needed , remove excess hair by clipping or shaving the hair before applying the on - body Infusor ( see Figure N ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 . 3 Wipe the skin where the on - body Infusor will be applied with an alcohol wipe and allow area to dry ( see Figure O ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 5 Apply the On - Body Infusor 5 . 1 Pick up the on - body Infusor .
Peel away the adhesive liner by grasping the white tab and pulling it away from the blue tab / adhesive backing ( see Figure P ) .
Do not touch the sticky ( adhesive ) part of the on - body Infusor with your fingers or let it touch any objects or surfaces before the Infusor is placed on the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 2 Apply the on - body Infusor to the chosen skin site while standing or sitting up straight .
Position the on - body Infusor so that the cartridge window and the indicator light can be seen during the infusion ( see Figure Q ) .
Do not bend over when applying the on - body Infusor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 3 Press the on - body Infusor firmly onto the skin and hold it for several seconds ( see Figure R ) .
Then rub your finger over the edges of the adhesive to get it to stick well .
Do not touch the blue start button until you are ready to start the infusion ( see Step 6 ) .
Do not remove and reapply on - body Infusor .
The on - body Infusor adhesive might not work as well .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Start the Infusion STEP 6 Start the Infusion 6 . 1 Firmly press and release the blue start button to begin the infusion ( see Figure S ) .
The on - body Infusor will stick a very small needle just under the skin and begin delivering the medicine .
The indicator light will start blinking green and the on - body Infusor " beeps " , signifying that the infusion has begun .
Note : At the start of the infusion , you may also hear the on - body Infusor motor running for several seconds .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 7 Allow Medicine to Deliver for 5 Hours 7 . 1 Relax during the delivery period .
The on - body Infusor should remain on the skin until the delivery is complete .
Do not exercise or take part in activities that might result in the on - body Infusor falling off .
Take care not to bump the on - body Infusor while wearing it .
It takes about 5 hours for the on - body Infusor to deliver all of the medicine .
During the infusion , the indicator light will continue to blink green periodically , signifying that the infusion is running ( see Figure T ) .
Note : If the on - body Infusor falls off or if the indicator light begins blinking red , call your healthcare provider right away ( see On - Body Infusor Alarm section ) .
Do not reapply or reuse the on - body Infusor .
Do not apply a new on - body Infusor unless instructed to do so by your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If You Have to Stop the Infusion Due to An Emergency , Do the Following : • Remove the on - body Infusor from the skin ( see Step 8 ) .
It will immediately stop infusing and the on - body Infusor will deactivate .
Do not reuse the on - body Infusor .
After the on - body Infusor is removed , it can no longer be used .
• Call your healthcare provider for further instructions .
Remove and Dispose of the On - Body Infusor STEP 8 When Infusion is Complete , Remove the On - Body Infusor from the Skin 8 . 1 The infusion is complete and the on - body Infusor is ready to be removed when ( see Figure U ) : • The indicator light turns solid green .
• The on - body Infusor " beeps " .
• The white plunger rod fills the cartridge window all the way .
Note : If indicator light begins blinking red instead of green and the on - body Infusor “ beeps ” , call your healthcare provider ( see On - Body Infusor Alarm section ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 . 2 Peel the on - body Infusor off the skin by holding the skin down and pulling on the blue tab ( see Figure V ) .
When the on - body Infusor is removed , the indicator light will turn off , the needle cover will extend over the needle to protect against accidental needle sticks , and the on - body Infusor will turn off .
Note : You might have some discomfort after you remove the adhesive .
This discomfort should quickly go away .
However , some redness of the skin may remain .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 . 3 Check the infusion site .
If there is any bleeding use a cotton ball or apply a small adhesive bandage .
STEP 9 Throw Away ( Dispose ) of Used On - Body Infusor 9 . 1 Dispose of the used FUROSCIX On - Body Infusor and prefilled cartridge together into an FDA - cleared sharps container ( see Figure W ) .
Do not attempt to remove the cartridge from the on - body Infusor ; it cannot be removed .
Do not throw away the used on - body Infusor into household trash .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used Needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle the on - body Infusor or sharps disposal container or throw them into household trash .
Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
For more information refer to : http : / / www . safeneedledisposal . org Infusor Alarm What happened ?
The Indicator light blinks red and the on - body Infusor " beeps " ( see Figure X ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What does it mean ?
There has been an internal error or the on - body Infusor came off the skin during the infusion .
What to do ?
Stop using the on - body Infusor .
If the on - body Infusor is on the skin , carefully remove it .
Call your healthcare provider for further instructions .
Do not reapply or reuse the on - body Infusor .
It can no longer be used .
Do not apply a new on - body Infusor unless instructed to do so by your healthcare provider .
Symbols Legend [ MULTIMEDIA ] scPharmaceuticals , Inc .
2400 District Avenue , Suite 310 , Burlington , MA 01803 1 - 855 - SCPHARMA ( 1 - 855 - 727 - 4276 ) This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 10 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cartridge Carton NDC 71767 - 100 FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection ) 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) 10 mL Single Dose Cartridge FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cartridge NDC 71767 - 100 FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection ) 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) 10 mL Single Dose Cartridge FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Device Tyvek Lid On - Body Infusor for FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection ) 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) For subcutaneous use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Device ( Direct Pad Printing ) On - Body Infusor for FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection ) 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) For subcutaneous use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Combination Product Primary Carton NDC 71767 - 100 - 01 1 X 10 mL Single Dose Prefilled Cartridge 1 X Single Use On - Body Infusor FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection ) 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY Single Dose Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Combination Product Physician Sample Primary Carton NDC 71767 - 100 - 01 PHYSICIAN SAMPLE ONLY NOT FOR SALE 1 X 10 mL Single Dose Prefilled Cartridge 1 X Single Use On - Body Infusor FUROSCIX ® ( furosemide injection ) 80 mg / 10 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY Single Dose Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
