ACTIVE INGREDIENT Each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) contains Guaifenesin , USP 100 mg and Codeine Phosphate , USP 10 mg .
Under federal law , Guaifenesin and Codeine Phosphate Oral Solution USP is available without a prescription .
Certain state laws may differ .
INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , flavor , glycerin , menthol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sodium saccharin , and sorbitol .
Sodium Content : 5 mg / 5 mL PURPOSE Expectorant / Cough Suppressant ACTIONS This product combines the expectorant , guaifenesin , with the cough suppressant , codeine .
Guaifenesin enhances the output of lower respiratory tract fluid .
The enhanced flow of less viscid secretions promotes and facilitates the removal of mucus .
Codeine is a centrally acting agent which elevates the threshold for cough .
As a result , dry , unproductive coughs become more productive and less frequent .
INDICATIONS Temporarily controls cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants .
Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache , consult a physician .
Do not take this product for persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , emphysema , or if cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) unless directed by a physician .
Adults and children who have a chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath , or children who are taking other drugs , should not take this product unless directed by a physician .
May cause or aggravate constipation .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using this product .
Professional Note : Guaifenesin has been shown to produce a color interference with certain clinical laboratory determinations of 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5 - HIAA ) and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
DRUG INTERACTION PRECAUTION Caution should be used when taking this product with sedatives , tranquilizers and drugs used for depression , especially monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) .
These combinations may cause greater sedation ( drowsiness ) than is caused by the products used alone .
( See WARNINGS ) DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION Take orally as stated below or use as directed by a physician .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 12 teaspoonfuls in a 24 - hour period ; Children 6 to under 12 years : 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in a 24 - hour period ; Children under 6 years : consult a physician .
A special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age .
Giving a higher dose than recommended by a physician could result in serious side effects for a child .
Use of codeine - containing preparations is not recommended for children under 2 years of age .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
[ See USP ] Protect from light .
HOW SUPPLIED Guaifenesin and Codeine Phosphate Oral Solution USP ( red color - cherry flavor ) is supplied in the following oral dosage forms : NDC 682588 - 8904 - 04 ( 4 fl oz bottle ) Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
Greenville , SC 29605 R08 / 06 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Label NDC 68258 - 8904 - 04 Guaifenesin and Codeine Phosphate Oral Solution USP CV 100 mg / 10 mg per 5 mL Expectorant / Cough Suppressant Alcohol Free / Sugar Free Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) contains : Guaifenesin , USP 100 mg Codeine Phosphate , USP 10 mg Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
DO NOT ACCEPT IF IMPRINTED SEAL AROUND CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) pai Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
Greenville , SC 29605 NDC 68258 - 8904 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
