Active Ingredients ( each tablet contains ) Folic Acid Cyanocobalamin ( Vitamin B - 12 ) Description Foltrate is a dietary supplement intended for oral administration Inactive ingredients : dicalcium phosphate , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , stearic acid , silica , magnesium stearate , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , and polyethylene glycol .
Indications and Usage Foltrate is indicated for folic acid supplementation and general nutritional support .
May also be recommended for patients who are of advancing age or suffer from improper food intake .
Contraindications This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Precautions Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The 500 mcg of cyanocobalamin ( B - 12 ) contained in each tablet of Foltrate should address this precaution .
Adverse reactions Allergic sensitization following oral and parenteral administration of folic acid has been reported .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Dosage and Administration Adults - one tablet daily or as directed by a physician .
How Supplied Foltrate tablets are round , pink and film - coated .
Each tablet is imprinted with " PE " on one side and " 122 " on the other .
Foltrate tablets are available in bottles of 100 Tablets ( NDC # 50991 - 323 - 01 ) .
WARNING : KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
Other information Store at controlled room temperature , 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
Rx only Manufactured for : Poly Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Quitman , MS 39355 Rev . 11 / 11 Principal Display Panel NDC 50991 - 323 - 01 Foltrate Tablets Each tablet contains : Folic Acid 1 . 0 mg Vitamin B - 12 500 mcg Rx ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
