Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne treatment Use • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
When using this product ■ Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , immediately flush with water .
■ Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product ■ Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily ■ Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor ■ If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients Water , Alcohol Denat . , Butylene Glycol , PPG - 5 - Ceteth - 20 , C12 - 15 Alkyl Lactate , Sodium citrate , Cocamidopropyl PG - Dimonium Chloride Phosphate , Benzalkonium Chloride , Cetyl Lactate , Sodium Benzotriazolyl Butylphenol Sulfonate , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hydroxide , Glycolic Acid Other information • Store at room temperature .
• Sunburn Alert : This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product and for a week afterwards .
Questions ?
800 - 582 - 4048 ; Outside US , dial collect 215 - 273 - 8755 or visit www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 186 mL Bottle Label Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND NEW STUBBORN BODY ACNE TREATMENT SPRAY Salicylic Acid Acne Treatment 2 % Salicylic Acid Fragrance Free clears and helps prevent acne ideal for use on back and chest 5 . 5 FL OZ ( 162 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
