ST . IVES SOLUTIONS CLEAR SKIN 3 - IN - 1 MOISTURIZER SUNSCREEN SPF 25 - ( sunscreen , avobenzone , octinoxate ) lotion Drug Facts Active ingredient Avobenzone 2 % Octinoxate 7 . 49 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Help prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of childrenf product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply to all skin exposed to the sun Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating For Children under 6 months of age .
Ask a doctor .
Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this rish , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a .
m . - 2 p .
m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Isohexadecane , Dimethicone , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oleosomes , Polyglyceryl - 10 Stearate , Niacinamide , Tocopheryl Acetate , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Leaf Extract .
Ammonium Acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , Sodium Benzoate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Xanthan Gum , Citric Acid , Butylene Glycol , Alpha - Isomethyl Ionone , Amyl Cinnamal , Benzyl Benzoate , Citral , Citronellol , Eugenol , Geraniol , Hexyl Cinnamal , Limonene , Linalool .
Questions or Comments ?
USA : 1 - 800 - 912 - 9867 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
