Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Camphor , Carbomer , Citrus Reticulata ( Tangerine ) Oil , Ethylhexylglycerin , Fragrance , Ilex Paraguerensis Leaf Extract , Isopropyl Alcohol , Lauryl PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 Methicone , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Water Dosage and Administration from Drug Facts Label Indications and Usage Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Purpose Topical Analgesic Active Ingredient Menthol 7 . 4 % Warnings Warnings For external use only .
When using this product Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes ■ Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin ■ Do not bandage tightly ■ Wash hands with cool water after use ■ Do not use with heating pad or device ■ Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied .
Primary Package ( Packet ) Label including Drug Facts Box [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Menthol 7 . 4 % ...................................................................
Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only .
When using this product Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes ■ Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin ■ Do not bandage tightly ■ Wash hands with cool water after use ■ Do not use with heating pad or device ■ Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied .
Discontinue use and consult doctor if ■ condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and recur Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : ■ Rub a thin film over affected areas not more than 4 times daily ■ Wash hands after each use with cool water Children under 2 years of age : Consult a physician Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Camphor , Carbomer , Citrus Reticulata ( Tangerine ) Oil , Ethylhexylglycerin , Fragrance , Ilex Paraguerensis Leaf Extract , Isopropyl Alcohol , Lauryl PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 Methicone , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Water © 2018 Parker Laboratories , Inc .
286 Eldridge Road , Fairfield , NJ 07004 U . S . A . Questions ( Toll Free ) 800 - 631 - 8888 helix4pain . com CM - 034 - 0001 A [ MULTIMEDIA ]
