Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Meclizine HCl 25 mg Purpose Antiemetic Uses for prevention and treatment of these symptoms associated with motion sickness : ■ nausea ■ vomiting ■ dizziness Do not give to children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have ■ a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis ■ glaucoma ■ trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product ■ drowsiness may occur ■ avoid alcoholic drinks ■ alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness ■ be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions ■ To prevent motion sickness , take first dose ½ hour to 1 hour before starting activity ■ To treat motion sickness , take at first signs of symptoms ■ Adults and children 12 years and over : 1 to 2 tablets once daily , or as directed by a doctor Other information Store in a dry place at 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) .
corn starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose Questions ?
1 - 800 - 231 - 4670 For prevention and treatment of motion sickness RETAIN VIAL CARD FOR COMPLETE PRODUCT INFORMATION Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2022 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS V - 34571 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Medtech Products Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Dramamine ® .
CVSHealth Compare to the active ingredient in Dramamine ® Less Drowsy Formula * Motion Sickness Less Drowsy Formula MECLIZINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS Antiemetic • Prevents motion sickness for up to 24 hours • Protection with less drowsiness TAMPER EVIDENT : USE ONLY IF THIS BLISTER IS INTACT 16 TABLETS ( 25 mg EACH ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
