Drug Facts Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 1 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Warnings For external use only : Read all warnings and directions before use .
Test first on small area of skin .
Do not use : • on wounds or damaged skin • if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers • do not use with heating pad or expose area to sunlight When using this product : • you may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes • do not tightly wrap or bandage the treatment area • do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop Use and Ask Doctor Stope Use and Ask Doctor if : • Condition worsens or does not improve after regular use • severe burning persists • redness or blistering occurs Keep Out of the Reach of Children Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • sprains Directions Adults and Children 18 years of age and older : • apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed • unless treating hands , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application • for best results , apply 3 to 4 times daily Children under 18 years : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate SE , mineral oil , PEG - 100 stearate , peppermint oil , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , purified water , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum , xanthan gum Questions Questions ?
Comments ?
1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 Manufactured for : AvKARE , Pulaski , TN 38478 www . avkare . com AV 06 / 22 Other Information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° F ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
