Avobenzone 2 . 5 % Homosalate 9 . 0 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 9 . 0 % Sunscreen Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
For external use only Do not use on damanged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Reapply at least every 2 hours .
Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
Water / Aqua / Eau , Propanediol , Butyloctyl salicylate , Diphenylsiloxy phenyl trimethicone , Dimethicone , VP / Eicosene copolymer , Silica , Trisiloxane , Cyclopentasiloxane , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Behenyl alcohol , Glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , C14 - 22 alcohols , Cetyl alcohol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Polyacrylate - 13 , Polyisobutene , Fragrance / Parfum , C12 - 20 Alkyl glucoside , Butylene glycol , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Sorbitan isostearate , Dextrin , Theobroma cacao ( cocoa ) extract , Gossypium herbaceum ( cotton ) extract , Glucose , Tocopherol global @ cosrx . co . kr Vitamin E Vitalizing Sunscreen Tocopherol SPF 50 + sunscreen contains Vitamin E to protect your skin from light ( UV rays ) and heat ( Aging signs ) leaving your skin healthy and moisturized .
SPF50 + BROAD SPECTRUM 50 mL / 1 . 69 fl .
oz .
COSRX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
