Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % ( w / w ) Purpose Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of pain due to canker sores , minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances , or minor injury of the mouth or gums Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care developes : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • heache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reacion occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • to assure formation of long - lasting film coating , dry affected area and apply medication undiluted with applicator • allow a few seconds for coating to form • use up to 4 times daily , or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other Information • do not use if package has been opened • store at 20 - 25 ˚ C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • close cap tightly after use to avoid evaporation • avoid contact with eyes • avoid contact with clothing and household / furniture surfaces to prevent possible staining • this is a personal care item , and should be used by one individual only Inactive ingredients Benzyl Alcohol , Cetylpyridinium Chloride , Compound Benzoin Tincture , Dimethyl Isosorbide , Ethylcellulose , Flavor , Octylacrylamide / acrylates / butylaminoethyl / methacrylate Copolymer , Oleth - 10 , PEG - 6 , Propylene Glycol , Ricinus Communis ( Castor ) Seed Oil , SD Alcohol 38 B , Sucralose , Tannic Acid .
CVS Health PROFESSIONAL STRENGTH Mouth Sore Relief Liquid BENZOCAINE 20 % Oral anesthetic Maximum pain relief For sores inside the mounth : • Canker sores • Denture pain • Irritation from braces • Gum pain 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 14 . 7 mL ) Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2019 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in Canada V - 14931 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
