For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx Only DESCRIPTION Erythromycin topical solution , USP 2 % contains erythromycin , USP for topical dermatologic use .
Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced from a strain of Saccaropolyspora erythraea ( formerly Streptomyces erythreus ) .
It is a base and readily forms salts with acids .
Chemically , erythromycin is : ( 3 R * , 4 S * , 5 S * , 6 R * , 7 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 12 R * , 13 S * , 14 R * ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - Dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - 0 - methyl - α - L - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 - hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - ß - D - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C37H67NO13 Molecular Weight : 733 . 94 Erythromycin , USP is a white or slightly yellow , crystalline powder that is soluble in water , alcohol , chloroform and in ether .
Each mL of erythromycin topical solution , USP 2 % contains 20 mg of erythromycin base in a vehicle consisting of alcohol ( 66 % ) , citric acid , and propylene glycol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism by which erythromycin reduces lesions of acne vulgaris is not fully known ; however , the effect appears to be due in part to the antibacterial activity of the drug .
Microbiology Erythromycin acts by inhibition of protein synthesis in susceptible organisms by reversibly binding to 50 S ribosomal subunits , thereby inhibiting translocation of aminoacyl transfer - RNA and inhibiting polypeptide synthesis .
Antagonism has been demonstrated in vitro between erythromycin , lincomycin , chloramphenicol , and clindamycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Erythromycin topical solution , 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin topical solution , 2 % is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including erythromycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis ” .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General For topical use only ; not for ophthalmic use .
Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating or abrasive agents .
The use of antibiotic agents may be associated with the overgrowth of antibiotic - resistant organisms .
If this occurs , discontinue use and take appropriate measures .
Avoid contact with eyes and all mucous membranes .
Information for Patients Patients using erythromycin topical solution , 2 % should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and all mucous membranes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should not use any other topical acne medication unless otherwise directed by their physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of topical erythromycin .
However , long - term ( 2 years ) oral studies in rats with erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin base did not provide evidence of tumorigenicity .
There was no apparent effect on male or female fertility in rats fed erythromycin ( base ) at levels up to 0 . 25 % of diet .
Pregnancy There was no evidence of teratogenicity or any other adverse effect on reproduction in female rats fed erythromycin base ( up to 0 . 25 % of diet ) prior to and during mating , during gestation and through weaning of two successive litters .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Erythromycin has been reported to cross the placental barrier in humans , but fetal plasma levels are generally low .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether erythromycin is excreted in human milk after topical application .
However , erythromycin is excreted in human milk following oral and parenteral erythromycin administration .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of this product in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported occasionally : peeling , dryness , itching , erythema , and oiliness .
Irritation of the eyes and tenderness of the skin have also been reported with topical use of erythromycin .
Generalized urticarial reactions possibly related to the use of erythromycin , which required systemic steroid therapy have been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Saptalis Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 833 - 727 - 8254 or FDA at 1 - 800 ‑ FDA ‑ 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Erythromycin topical solution , 2 % should be applied over the affected areas twice a day ( morning and evening ) after the skin is thoroughly washed with warm water and soap and patted dry .
Acne lesions on the face , neck , shoulders , chest , and back may be treated in this manner .
This medication should be applied with applicator top .
If fingertips are used , wash hands after application .
Drying and peeling may be controlled by reducing the frequency of applications .
HOW SUPPLIED Erythromycin topical solution , USP 2 % is available as follows : 60 mL bottle with applicator ( NDC 42571 - 384 - 25 ) Store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Manufactured by : Saptalis Pharmaceuticals , LLC Hauppauge , NY 11788 Distributed by : Micro Labs USA , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Rev . 01 / 22 - R2 Principal dispaly panel - Label NDC 42571 - 384 - 25 Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx only 60 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal dispaly panel - Carton NDC 42571 - 384 - 25 Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx only 60 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
