HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AUTO - INJECTOR safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AUTO - INJECTOR .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg , 0 . 15 mg , for intramuscular or subcutaneous use Initial U . S . Approval : 1939 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector contains epinephrine , a non - selective alpha and beta - adrenergic receptor agonist , indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions ( Type I ) including anaphylaxis .
( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients greater than or equal to 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) : Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg ( 2 ) Patients 15 to 30 kg ( 33 lbs - 66 lbs ) : Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg ( 2 ) Inject epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , through clothing if necessary .
Each device is a single - use injection .
( 2 ) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection , 0 . 3 mg : 0 . 3 mg / 0 . 3 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector ( 3 ) Injection , 0 . 15 mg : 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 15 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector ( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In conjunction with use , seek immediate medical or hospital care .
( 5 , 5 . 1 ) Do not inject intravenously , into buttock , or into digits , hands , or feet .
( 5 , 5 . 2 ) To minimize the risk of injection related injury , instruct caregivers to hold the child ’ s leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during injection when administering to young children .
( 5 , 5 . 2 ) Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections have been reported following epinephrine injection .
Advise patients to seek medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of infection .
( 5 , 5 . 3 ) The presence of a sulfite in this product should not deter use .
( 5 , 5 . 4 ) Administer with caution in patients with heart disease ; may aggravate angina pectoris or produce ventricular arrhythmias .
( 5 , 5 . 5 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to epinephrine include anxiety , apprehensiveness , restlessness , tremor , weakness , dizziness , sweating , palpitations , pallor , nausea and vomiting , headache , and / or respiratory difficulties .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Impax Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 934 - 6729 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Cardiac glycosides or diuretics : observe for development of cardiac arrhythmias .
( 7 ) Tricyclic antidepressants , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , levothyroxine sodium , and certain antihistamines : potentiate effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) Beta - adrenergic blocking drugs : antagonize cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) Alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs : antagonize vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) Ergot alkaloids : may reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Elderly patients may be at greater risk of developing adverse reactions .
( 5 - 5 . 5 , 8 - 8 . 5 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA - approved patient labeling .
Revised : 8 / 2018 FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Emergency Treatment 5 . 2 Injection - Related Complications 5 . 3 Serious Infections at the Injection Site 5 . 4 Allergic Reactions Associated with Sulfite 5 . 5 Disease Interactions 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 10 OVERDOSAGE 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE & HANDLINGHOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied 16 . 2 Storage and Handling 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions ( Type I ) including anaphylaxis to stinging insects ( e . g . , order Hymenoptera , which includes bees , wasps , hornets , yellow jackets and fire ants ) , and biting insects ( e . g . , triatoma , mosquitoes ) , allergen immunotherapy , foods , drugs , diagnostic testing substances ( e . g . , radiocontrast media ) , and other allergens , as well as idiopathic anaphylaxis or exercise - induced anaphylaxis .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is intended for immediate administration in patients who are determined to be at increased risk for anaphylaxis , including individuals with a history of anaphylactic reactions .
Anaphylactic reactions may occur within minutes after exposure and consist of flushing , apprehension , syncope , tachycardia , thready or unobtainable pulse associated with a fall in blood pressure , convulsions , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps , involuntary voiding , wheezing , dyspnea due to laryngeal spasm , pruritus , rashes , urticaria , or angioedema .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is intended for immediate administration as emergency supportive therapy only and is not a replacement or substitute for immediate medical care .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Selection of the appropriate epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector dosage strength is determined according to patient body weight .
Patients greater than or equal to 30 kg ( approximately 66 pounds or more ) : epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg Patients 15 to 30 kg ( 33 pounds to 66 pounds ) : epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg Inject epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , through clothing if necessary .
Instruct caregivers of young children who are prescribed an epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector and who may be uncooperative and kick or move during an injection to hold the leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during an injection [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector contains a single dose of epinephrine for single use injection .
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector are fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0 . 15 mg are deemed necessary .
The prescriber should carefully assess each patient to determine the most appropriate dose of epinephrine , recognizing the life - threatening nature of the reactions for which this drug is indicated .
With severe persistent anaphylaxis , repeat injections with an additional epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector may be necessary .
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The epinephrine solution in the viewing window of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the outer case provided to protect it from light [ see HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE & HANDLING ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Injection , 0 . 3 mg / 0 . 3 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector Injection , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 15 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
5 WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Emergency Treatment Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is intended for immediate administration as emergency supportive therapy and is not intended as a substitute for immediate medical care .
In conjunction with the administration of epinephrine , the patient should seek immediate medical or hospital care .
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ see INDICATIONS & USAGE ( 1 ) , DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Injection - Related Complications Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should only be injected into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh [ see DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 ) ] .
Do not inject intravenously .
Large doses or accidental intravenous injection of epinephrine may result in cerebral hemorrhage due to a sharp rise in blood pressure .
Rapidly acting vasodilators can counteract the marked pressor effects of epinephrine if there is such inadvertent administration .
Do not inject into buttock .
Injection into the buttock may not provide effective treatment of anaphylaxis .
Advise the patient to go immediately to the nearest emergency room for further treatment of anaphylaxis .
Additionally , injection into the buttock has been associated with the development of Clostridial infections ( gas gangrene ) .
Cleansing with alcohol does not kill bacterial spores , and therefore , does not lower the risk .
Do not inject into digits , hands or feet .
Since epinephrine is a strong vasoconstrictor , accidental injection into the digits , hands or feet may result in loss of blood flow to the affected area .
Advise the patient to go immediately to the nearest emergency room and to inform the healthcare provider in the emergency room of the location of the accidental injection .
Treatment of such inadvertent administration should consist of vasodilation , in addition to further appropriate treatment of anaphylaxis [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ] .
Hold leg firmly during injection .
Lacerations , bent needles , and embedded needles have been reported when epinephrine has been injected into the thigh of young children who are uncooperative and kick or move during an injection .
To minimize the risk of injection related injury when administering epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector to young children , instruct caregivers to hold the child ’ s leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during injection .
5 . 3 Serious Infections at the Injection Site Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections , including necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis caused by Clostridia ( gas gangrene ) , have been reported at the injection site following epinephrine injection for anaphylaxis .
Clostridium spores can be present on the skin and introduced into the deep tissue with subcutaneous or intramuscular injection .
While cleansing with alcohol may reduce presence of bacteria on the skin , alcohol cleansing does not kill Clostridium spores .
To decrease the risk of Clostridium infection , do not inject epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector into the buttock [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to seek medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of infection , such as persistent redness , warmth , swelling , or tenderness , at the epinephrine injection site .
5 . 4 Allergic Reactions Associated with Sulfite The presence of a sulfite in this product should not deter administration of the drug for treatment of serious allergic or other emergency situations even if the patient is sulfite - sensitive .
Epinephrine is the preferred treatment for serious allergic reactions or other emergency situations even though this product contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may , in other products , cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms or life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible persons .
The alternatives to using epinephrine in a life - threatening situation may not be satisfactory .
5 . 5 Disease Interactions Some patients may be at greater risk for developing adverse reactions after epinephrine administration .
Despite these concerns , it should be recognized that the presence of these conditions is not a contraindication to epinephrine administration in an acute , life - threatening situation .
Therefore , patients with these conditions , and / or any other person who might be in a position to administer epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector to a patient experiencing anaphylaxis should be carefully instructed in regard to the circumstances under which epinephrine should be used .
Patients with Heart Disease Epinephrine should be administered with caution to patients who have heart disease , including patients with cardiac arrhythmias , coronary artery or organic heart disease , or hypertension .
In such patients , or in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias , epinephrine may precipitate or aggravate angina pectoris as well as produce ventricular arrhythmias [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) and ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ] .
Other Patients and Diseases Epinephrine should be administered with caution to patients with hyperthyroidism , diabetes , elderly individuals , and pregnant women .
Patients with Parkinson ' s disease may notice a temporary worsening of symptoms .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Due to the lack of randomized , controlled clinical trials of epinephrine for the treatment of anaphylaxis , the true incidence of adverse reactions associated with the systemic use of epinephrine is difficult to determine .
Adverse reactions reported in observational trials , case reports , and studies are listed below .
Common adverse reactions to systemically administered epinephrine include anxiety ; apprehensiveness ; restlessness ; tremor ; weakness ; dizziness ; sweating ; palpitations ; pallor ; nausea and vomiting ; headache , and / or respiratory difficulties .
These symptoms occur in some persons receiving therapeutic doses of epinephrine , but are more likely to occur in patients with hypertension or hyperthyroidism [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Arrhythmias , including fatal ventricular fibrillation , have been reported , particularly in patients with underlying cardiac disease or those receiving certain drugs [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
Rapid rises in blood pressure have produced cerebral hemorrhage , particularly in elderly patients with cardiovascular disease [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Angina may occur in patients with coronary artery disease [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Accidental injection into the digits , hands or feet may result in loss of blood flow to the affected area [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Adverse events experienced as a result of accidental injections may include increased heart rate , local reactions including injection site pallor , coldness and hypoesthesia or injury at the injection site resulting in bruising , bleeding , discoloration , erythema or skeletal injury .
Lacerations , bent needles , and embedded needles have been reported when epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector has been injected into the thigh of young children who are uncooperative and kick or move during an injection [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Injection into the buttock has resulted in cases of gas gangrene [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections , including necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis caused by Clostridia ( gas gangrene ) , have been reported following epinephrine injection in the thigh [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Rare cases of stress cardiomyopathy have been reported in patients treated with epinephrine .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking cardiac glycosides , diuretics , or anti - arrhythmics should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , levothyroxine sodium , and certain antihistamines , notably chlorpheniramine , tripelennamine , and diphenhydramine .
The cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine are antagonized by beta - adrenergic blocking drugs , such as propranolol .
The vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine are antagonized by alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs , such as phentolamine .
Ergot alkaloids may also reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of the acute effect of epinephrine in pregnant women .
Epinephrine was teratogenic in rabbits , mice and hamsters .
Epinephrine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus ( fetal anoxia , spontaneous abortion , or both ) .
Epinephrine has been shown to have teratogenic effects when administered subcutaneously in rabbits at approximately 30 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 1 . 2 mg / kg / day for two to three days ) , in mice at approximately 7 times the maximum daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 1 mg / kg / day for 10 days ) , and in hamsters at approximately 5 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day for 4 days ) .
These effects were not seen in mice at approximately 3 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m2 basis at a subcutaneous maternal dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day for 10 days ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether epinephrine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector may be administered to pediatric patients at a dosage appropriate to body weight [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Clinical experience with the use of epinephrine suggests that the adverse reactions seen in children are similar in nature and extent to those both expected and reported in adults .
Since the dose of epinephrine delivered from epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0 . 15 mg are deemed necessary .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies for the treatment of anaphylaxis have not been performed in subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
However , other reported clinical experience with use of epinephrine for the treatment of anaphylaxis has identified that geriatric patients may be particularly sensitive to the effects of epinephrine .
Therefore , epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should be administered with caution in elderly individuals , who may be at greater risk for developing adverse reactions after epinephrine administration [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) and OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of epinephrine may produce extremely elevated arterial pressure , which may result in cerebrovascular hemorrhage , particularly in elderly patients .
Overdosage may also result in pulmonary edema because of peripheral vascular constriction together with cardiac stimulation .
Treatment consists of a rapidly acting vasodilators or alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs and / or respiratory support .
Epinephrine overdosage can also cause transient bradycardia followed by tachycardia , and these may be accompanied by potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias .
Premature ventricular contractions may appear within one minute after injection and may be followed by multifocal ventricular tachycardia ( prefibrillation rhythm ) .
Subsidence of the ventricular effects may be followed by atrial tachycardia and occasionally by atrioventricular block .
Treatment of arrhythmias consists of administration of a beta - adrenergic blocking drug such as propranolol .
Overdosage sometimes results in extreme pallor and coldness of the skin , metabolic acidosis , and kidney failure .
Suitable corrective measures must be taken in such situations .
11 DESCRIPTION Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg and 0 . 15 mg is an auto - injector and a combination product containing drug and device components .
Each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg delivers a single dose of 0 . 3 mg epinephrine from epinephrine injection , USP ( 0 . 3 mL ) in a sterile solution .
Each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg delivers a single dose of 0 . 15 mg epinephrine from epinephrine injection , USP ( 0 . 15 mL ) in a sterile solution .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg and epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg each contain 1 . 1 mL of epinephrine solution .
0 . 3 mL and 0 . 15 mL epinephrine solution are dispensed for epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg and epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg , respectively , when activated .
The solution remaining after activation is not available for future use and should be discarded .
Each 0 . 3 mL in epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg contains 0 . 3 mg epinephrine , 2 . 6 mg sodium chloride , not more than 1 . 5 mg chlorobutanol , 0 . 45 mg sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , and water for injection .
The pH range is 2 . 2 - 5 . 0 .
Each 0 . 15 mL in epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg contains 0 . 15 mg epinephrine , 1 . 3 mg sodium chloride , not more than 0 . 75 mg chlorobutanol , 0 . 225 sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , and water for injection .
The pH range is 2 . 2 - 5 . 0 .
Epinephrine is a sympathomimetic catecholamine .
Chemically , epinephrine is ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epinephrine solution deteriorates rapidly on exposure to air or light , turning pink from oxidation to adrenochrome and brown from the formation of melanin .
Replace epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector if the epinephrine solution appears discolored ( pinkish or brown color ) , cloudy , or contains particles .
Thoroughly review the patient instructions and operation of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector with patients and caregivers prior to use [ see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Epinephrine acts on both alpha - and beta - adrenergic receptors .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Through its action on alpha - adrenergic receptors , epinephrine lessens the vasodilation and increased vascular permeability that occurs during anaphylaxis , which can lead to loss of intravascular fluid volume and hypotension .
Through its action on beta - adrenergic receptors , epinephrine causes bronchial smooth muscle relaxation and helps alleviate bronchospasm , wheezing , and dyspnea that may occur during anaphylaxis .
Epinephrine also alleviates pruritus , urticaria , and angioedema , and may relieve gastrointestinal and genitourinary symptoms associated with anaphylaxis because of its relaxer effects on the smooth muscle of the stomach , intestine , uterus and urinary bladder .
When given intramuscularly or subcutaneously , epinephrine has a rapid onset and short duration of action .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of epinephrine have not been conducted .
Epinephrine and other catecholamines have been shown to have mutagenic potential in vitro and to be an oxidative mutagen in a WP2 bacterial reverse mutation assay .
Epinephrine was positive in the DNA Repair test with B . subtilis ( REC ) assay , but was not mutagenic in the Salmonella bacterial reverse mutation assay .
The potential for epinephrine to impair fertility has not been evaluated .
This should not prevent the use of epinephrine under the conditions noted under INDICATIONS & USAGE ( 1 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE & HANDLING EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USPis supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1222 - 1 EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AUTO INJECTOR 0 . 15 mg NDC 51662 - 1223 - 1 EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AUTO INJECTOR 0 . 30 mg HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms 16 . 1 How Supplied Carton containing two epinephrine injection , USP auto - injectors 0 . 3 mg : NDC 0115 - 1694 - 49 .
Carton containing one epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg : NDC 0115 - 1694 - 30 .
Carton containing two epinephrine injection , USP auto - injectors 0 . 15 mg : NDC 0115 - 1695 - 49 .
Carton containing one epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg : NDC 0115 - 1695 - 30 .
Rx only 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Protect from light .
Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the carrying - case provided to protect it from light .
Store at room temperature ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate .
Before using , check to make sure the solution in the auto - injector is clear and colorless .
Replace the auto - injector if the solution is discolored ( pinkish or brown color ) , cloudy , or contains particles .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( PATIENT INFORMATION and INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ) ] A healthcare provider should review the patient instructions and operation of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , in detail , with the patient or caregiver .
Epinephrine is essential for the treatment of anaphylaxis .
Carefully instruct patients who are at risk of or with a history of severe allergic reactions ( anaphylaxis ) to insect stings or bites , foods , drugs , and other allergens , as well as idiopathic and exercise - induced anaphylaxis , about the circumstances under which epinephrine should be used .
Administration and Training Instruct patients and / or caregivers in the appropriate use of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should be injected into the middle of the outer thigh ( through clothing if necessary ) .
Instruct caregivers to hold the leg of young children firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during injection .
Lacerations , bent needles , and embedded needles have been reported when epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector has been injected into the thigh of young children who are uncooperative and kick during an injection [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is a single - use injection .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical care in conjunction with administration of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Complete patient information , including dosage , directions for proper administration and precautions can be found inside each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector carton .
A printed label on the surface of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector shows instructions for use and a diagram depicting the injection process .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers to use the Trainer to familiarize themselves with the use of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector in an allergic emergency .
The Trainer may be used multiple times .
Adverse Reactions Epinephrine may produce symptoms and signs that include an increase in heart rate , the sensation of a more forceful heartbeat , palpitations , sweating , nausea and vomiting , difficulty breathing , pallor , dizziness , weakness or shakiness , headache , apprehension , nervousness , or anxiety .
These signs and symptoms usually subside rapidly , especially with rest , quiet , and recumbency .
Patients with hypertension or hyperthyroidism may develop more severe or persistent effects , and patients with coronary artery disease could experience angina .
Patients with diabetes may develop increased blood glucose levels following epinephrine administration .
Patients with Parkinson ' s disease may notice a temporary worsening of symptoms [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Accidental Injection Advise patients to seek immediate medical care in the case of accidental injection .
Since epinephrine is a strong vasoconstrictor when injected into the digits , hands or feet , treatment should be directed at vasodilation if there is such an accidental injection to these areas [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Serious Infections at the Injection Site Rare cases of skin and soft tissue infections , including necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis caused by Clostridia ( gas gangrene ) , have been reported at the injection site following epinephrine injection for anaphylaxis .
Advise patients to seek medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of infection , such as persistent redness , warmth , swelling , or tenderness , at the epinephrine injection site [ see WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Storage and Handling Instruct patients to inspect the epinephrine solution visually through the viewing window periodically .
Replace epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector if the epinephrine solution appears discolored ( pinkish or brown ) , cloudy , or contains particles .
Epinephrine is light sensitive , store in the outer case provided to protect it from light .
Instruct patients that epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector must be properly disposed of once the blue caps have been removed or after use [ see HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE & HANDLING ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
Complete patient information , including dosage , directions for proper administration and precautions are provided inside each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector carton .
Manf .
by : Hospira , Inc .
McPherson , KS 67460 Dist .
by : Impax Generics Hayward , CA 94544 © 2016 Impax Laboratories , Inc . , Hayward , CA .
All rights reserved .
For inquiries call 1 - 800 - 934 - 6729 1871 - 02 Rev . 08 / 2018 PATIENT INFORMATION EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AUTO - INJECTOR ( ep - in - eph - rine ) Authorized generic of Adrenaclick ® For allergic emergencies ( anaphylaxis ) Read this Patient Information Leaflet carefully before you use the epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
You , your parent , caregiver , or others who may be in a position to administer epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should know how to use it before you have an allergic emergency .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
1 .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector contains epinephrine , a medicine used to treat allergic emergencies ( anaphylaxis ) .
Anaphylaxis can be life - threatening , can happen within minutes , and can be caused by stinging and biting insects , allergy injections , foods , medicines , exercise , or other unknown causes .
Symptoms of an anaphylaxis may include : trouble breathing wheezing hoarseness ( changes in the way your voice sounds ) hives ( raised reddened rash that may itch ) severe itching swelling of your face , lips , mouth , or tongue skin rash , redness , or swelling fast heartbeat weak pulse feeling very anxious confusion stomach pain losing control of urine or bowel movements ( incontinence ) diarrhea or stomach cramps dizziness , fainting , or “ passing out ” ( unconsciousness ) 2 .
Always carry your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector with you because you may not know when anaphylaxis may happen .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you need additional units to keep at work , school , or other locations .
Tell your family members , caregivers , and others where you keep your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector and how to use it before you need it .
You may be unable to speak in an allergic emergency .
3 .
When you have an allergic emergency ( anaphylaxis ) Use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector right away .
Get emergency medical help right away .
You may need further medical attention .
You may need to use a second epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector if symptoms continue or recur .
Only a healthcare provider should give additional doses of epinephrine if you need more than 2 injections for a single anaphylaxis episode .
What is epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is a disposable , prefilled automatic injection device ( auto - injector ) used to treat life - threatening , allergic emergencies including anaphylaxis in people who are at risk for or have a history of serious allergic emergencies .
Each device contains a single dose of epinephrine .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is for immediate self ( or caregiver ) administration and does not take the place of emergency medical care .
You should get emergency medical help right away after using epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is for people who have been prescribed this medicine by their healthcare provider .
The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg auto - injector is for patients who weigh 66 pounds or more ( 30 kilograms or more ) .
The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg auto - injector is for patients who weigh about 33 to 66 pounds ( 15 to 30 kilograms ) .
It is not known if epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is safe and effective in children who weigh less than 33 pounds ( 15 kilograms ) .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
Before you use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , especially if you : have heart problems or high blood pressure have diabetes have thyroid problems have asthma have a history of depression have Parkinson ' s disease have any other medical conditions are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if epinephrine will harm your unborn baby .
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if epinephrine passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Tell your healthcare provider of all known allergies .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take certain asthma medicines .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector and other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
Use your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector for treatment of anaphylaxis as prescribed by your healthcare provider , regardless of your medical conditions or the medicine you take .
How should I use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
Each epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector contains only 1 dose of medicine .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should only be injected into the middle of the outer thigh ( upper leg ) .
It can be injected through clothing , if needed .
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information Leaflet for information about the right way to use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Your healthcare provider will show you how to safely use the epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
You may need to use a second epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector if symptoms continue or recur .
Only a healthcare provider should give additional doses of epinephrine if you need more than 2 injections for a single anaphylaxis episode .
Caution : Never put your thumb , fingers , or hand over the red tip .
Never press or push the red tip with your thumb , fingers , or hand .
The needle comes out of the red tip .
Accidental injection into finger , hands , or feet may cause a loss of blood flow to those areas .
If this happens , go immediately to the nearest emergency room .
Tell the healthcare provider where on your body you received the accidental injection .
Your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector comes packaged in a carton containing 1 or 2 epinephrine injection , USP auto - injectors .
You may request a separate Trainer , that comes packaged with instructions .
Additional video instructions on the use of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector are available from www . epinephrineautoinject . com .
The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer has a beige color .
The beige epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer contains no medicine and no needle .
Practice with your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer before an allergic emergency happens to make sure you are able to safely use the real epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector in an emergency .
Always carry your real epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector with you in case of an allergic emergency .
Do not drop the carrying case or epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
If the carrying case or epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is dropped , check for damage and leakage .
Dispose of the auto - injector and carrying case , and replace if damage or leakage is noticed or suspected .
What are the possible side effects of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector may cause serious side effects .
Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should only be injected into the middle of your outer thigh ( upper leg ) .
Do not inject epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector into your : veins buttocks fingers , toes , hands or feet .
If you accidently inject epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector into any other part of your body , go to the nearest emergency room right away .
Tell the healthcare provider where on your body you received the accidental injection .
Rarely , patients who use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector may develop infections at the injection site within a few days of an injection .
Some of these infections can be serious .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following at an injection site : redness that does not go away swelling tenderness the area feels warm to the touch Cuts on the skin , bent needles , and needles that remain in the skin after the injection , have happened in young children who do not cooperate and kick or move during an injection .
If you inject a young child with epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , hold their leg firmly in place before and during the injection to prevent injuries .
Ask your healthcare provider to show you how to properly hold the leg of a young child during an injection .
If you have certain medical conditions , or take certain medicines , your condition may get worse or you may have more or longer lasting side effects when you use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Talk to your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions .
Common side effects of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector include : faster , irregular or “ pounding ” heartbeat sweating headache weakness shakiness paleness feelings of over excitement , nervousness , or anxiety dizziness nausea or vomiting breathing problems These side effects may go away with rest .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
Store epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
Protect from light .
Do not expose to extreme heat or cold .
For example , do not store in your vehicle ’ s glove box and do not store in the refrigerator or freezer .
Examine the contents in the clear viewing window of your auto - injector periodically .
The solution should be clear .
If the solution is discolored ( pinkish or brown ) , cloudy or contains solid particles , replace the unit .
Always keep your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector in the carrying case to protect it from damage ; however , the carrying case is not waterproof .
The two blue end caps help to prevent accidental injection .
Do not remove the blue end caps until you are ready to use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector has an expiration date .
Replace it before the expiration date .
Keep epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector to other people .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector that is written for health professionals .
For more information and video instructions on the use of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , go to www . epinephrineautoinject . com or call 1 - 800 - 934 - 6729 .
What are the ingredients in epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ?
Active Ingredient : epinephrine Inactive Ingredients : sodium chloride , chlorobutanol , sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide , and water .
Important Information The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg auto - injector has a yellow colored label .
The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg auto - injector has an orange colored label .
The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer has a beige color , and contains no medicine and no needle .
Your auto - injector is designed to work through clothing .
The two blue end caps on the epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector help to prevent accidental injection of the device .
Do not remove the blue end caps until you are ready to use it .
Only inject into the middle of the outer thigh ( upper leg ) .
Never inject into any other part of the body .
Never put your thumb , fingers , or your hand over the red tip .
The needle comes out of the red tip .
If an accidental injection happens , get medical help right away .
Do not place patient information or any other foreign objects in carrier with the auto - injector , as this may prevent you from removing the auto - injector for use .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE EPINEPHRINE INJECTION , USP AUTO - INJECTOR ( ep - in - eph - rine ) For allergic emergencies ( anaphylaxis ) Read these Instructions for Use carefully before you use epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector .
Before you need to use your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , make sure your healthcare provider shows you the right way to use it .
Parents , caregivers , and others who may be in a position to administer epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector should also understand how to use it well .
If you have any questions , ask your healthcare provider .
Your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 1 .
Prepare epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector for injection Remove epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector from its protective carrying case .
Pull off blue end caps ; you will now see a red tip .
Grasp the auto - injector in your fist with the red tip pointing downward .
See Figure A . Note : The needle comes out of the red tip .
To avoid an accidental injection , never put your thumb , fingers , or hand over the red tip .
If an accidental injection happens , get medical help right away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 2 .
Administer epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector If you are administering epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector to a young child , hold the leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and while administering an injection .
Put the red tip against the middle of the outer thigh ( upper leg ) at a 90 ° angle ( perpendicular ) to the thigh .
Press down hard and hold firmly against the thigh for approximately 10 seconds to deliver the medicine .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Only inject into the middle of the outer thigh .
Do not inject into any other part of the body .
Remove epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector from the thigh .
Massage the area for 10 seconds .
Check the red tip .
The injection is complete and you have received the correct dose of the medicine if you see the needle sticking out of the red tip .
If you do not see the needle repeat Step 2 .
STEP 3 .
Get emergency medical help right away .
You may need further medical attention .
You may need to use a second epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector if symptoms continue or recur .
STEP 4 .
After use / Disposal Carefully cover the needle with the carrying case .
Lay the labeled half of the carrying case cover down on a flat surface .
Use one hand to carefully slide the end of the auto - injector , needle first , into the labeled carrying case cover .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] After the needle is inside the labeled cover , push the unlabeled half of the carrying case cover firmly over the non - needle end of the auto - injector .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Take your used epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector with you when you go to see a healthcare provider .
Tell the healthcare provider that you have received an injection of epinephrine .
Show the healthcare provider where you received the injection .
Give your used epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector to the healthcare provider for inspection and proper disposal .
Ask for a refill , if needed .
Note : Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector is a single - use injectable device that delivers a fixed dose of epinephrine .
The auto - injector cannot be reused .
Do not attempt to reuse epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector after the device has been activated .
It is normal for most of the medicine to remain in the auto - injector after the dose is injected .
The correct dose has been administered if you see the needle sticking out of the red tip .
A separate epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer is available .
The epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer has a beige color .
The beige epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer contains no medicine and no needle .
Practice with your epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Trainer , but always carry your real epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector in case of an allergic emergency .
If you will be administering epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector to a young child , ask your healthcare provider to show you how to properly hold the leg in place while administering a dose .
Do not try to take the epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector apart .
For more information and video instructions on the use of epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector , go to www . epinephrineautoinject . com or call 1 - 800 - 934 - 6729 .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
© 2016 Impax Laboratories , Inc . , Hayward , CA .
All rights reserved .
Manf .
by : Hospira , Inc .
McPherson , KS 67460 Dist .
by : Impax Generics Hayward , CA 94544 1872 - 02 Rev . 08 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL , 0 . 15 mL CASE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 15 mg CASE LABEL epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 15 mg Impax Generics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL , . 15 mL SERIALIZED LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL , 0 . 3 mL SERIALIZED LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL , 0 . 3 ml case label PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 3 mg CASE LABEL epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg Impax Generics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
