DESCRIPTION Glucagon for Injection is a polypeptide hormone identical to human glucagon that increases blood glucose and relaxes smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract .
Glucagon is synthesized in a special non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli bacteria that has been genetically altered by the addition of the gene for glucagon .
Glucagon is a single - chain polypeptide that contains 29 amino acid residues and has a molecular weight of 3483 .
The empirical formula is C153H225N43O49S .
The primary sequence of glucagon is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Crystalline glucagon is a white to off - white powder .
It is relatively insoluble in water but is soluble at a pH of less than 3 or more than 9 . 5 .
Glucagon is available for use intravenously , intramuscularly , or subcutaneously in a kit that contains a vial of sterile glucagon and a syringe of sterile diluent .
The vial contains 1 mg of glucagon and 49 mg of lactose .
Hydrochloric acid may have been added during manufacture to adjust the pH of the glucagon .
One International Unit of glucagon is equivalent to 1 mg of glucagon . 1 The diluent syringe contains 12 mg / mL of glycerin , Water For Injection , and hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Glucagon increases blood glucose concentration and is used in the treatment of severe hypoglycemia .
Glucagon acts only on liver glycogen , converting it to glucose .
Glucagon administered through a parenteral route relaxes smooth muscle of the stomach , duodenum , small bowel , and colon .
Pharmacokinetics Glucagon has been studied following intramuscular , subcutaneous , and intravenous administration in adult volunteers .
Administration of the intravenous glucagon showed dose proportionality of the pharmacokinetics between 0 . 25 and 2 . 0 mg .
Calculations from a 1 mg dose showed a small volume of distribution ( mean , 0 . 25 L / kg ) and a moderate clearance ( mean , 13 . 5 mL / min / kg ) .
The half - life was short , ranging from 8 to 18 minutes .
Maximum plasma concentrations of 7 . 9 ng / mL were achieved approximately 20 minutes after subcutaneous administration ( see Figure 1 A ) .
With intramuscular dosing , maximum plasma concentrations of 6 . 9 ng / mL were attained approximately 13 minutes after dosing .
Glucagon is extensively degraded in liver , kidney , and plasma .
Urinary excretion of intact glucagon has not been measured .
Pharmacodynamics In a study of 25 volunteers , a subcutaneous dose of 1 mg glucagon resulted in a mean peak glucose concentration of 136 mg / dL 30 minutes after injection ( see Figure 1 B ) .
Similarly , following intramuscular injection , the mean peak glucose level was 138 mg / dL , which occurred at 26 minutes after injection .
No difference in maximum blood glucose concentration between animal - sourced and rDNA glucagon was observed after subcutaneous and intramuscular injection .
Figure 1 Mean ( ± SE ) serum glucagon and blood glucose levels after subcutaneous injection of glucagon ( 1 mg ) in 25 normal volunteers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS & USAGE For the treatment of severe hypoglycemia : Glucagon is indicated as a treatment for severe hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) which may occur in patients with diabetes mellitus .
Because patients with type 1 diabetes may have less of an increase in blood glucose levels compared with a stable type 2 patient , supplementary carbohydrate should be given as soon as possible , especially to a pediatric patient .
For use as a diagnostic aid : Glucagon is indicated as a diagnostic aid in the radiologic examination of the stomach , duodenum , small bowel , and colon when diminished intestinal motility would be advantageous .
Glucagon is as effective for this examination as are the anticholinergic drugs .
However , as use of glucagon in combination with anticholinergic drugs may result in increased side effects , the use of glucagon in combination with anticholinergic drugs is not recommended .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glucagon is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to it or in patients with known pheochromocytoma .
WARNINGS Glucagon should be administered cautiously to patients with a history suggestive of insulinoma , pheochromocytoma , or both .
In patients with insulinoma , intravenous administration of glucagon may produce an initial increase in blood glucose ; however , because of glucagon ' s hyperglycemic effect the insulinoma may release insulin and cause subsequent hypoglycemia .
A patient developing symptoms of hypoglycemia after a dose of glucagon should be given glucose orally , intravenously , or by gavage , whichever is most appropriate .
Exogenous glucagon also stimulates the release of catecholamines .
In the presence of pheochromocytoma , glucagon can cause the tumor to release catecholamines , which may result in a sudden and marked increase in blood pressure .
If a patient develops a sudden increase in blood pressure , 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate may be administered intravenously in an attempt to control the blood pressure .
Generalized allergic reactions , including urticaria , respiratory distress , and hypotension , have been reported in patients who received glucagon by injection .
Necrolytic migratory erythema ( NME ) , a skin rash commonly associated with glucagonomas ( glucagon - producing tumors ) and characterized by scaly , pruritic erythematous plaques , bullae , and erosions , has been reported postmarketing following continuous glucagon infusion .
NME lesions may affect the face , groin , perineum and legs or be more widespread .
In the reported cases NME resolved with discontinuation of the glucagon , and treatment with corticosteroids was not effective .
Should NME occur , consider whether the benefits of continuous glucagon infusion outweigh the risks .
PRECAUTIONS General Glucagon is effective in treating hypoglycemia only if sufficient liver glycogen is present .
Because glucagon is of little or no help in states of starvation , adrenal insufficiency , or chronic hypoglycemia , hypoglycemia in these conditions should be treated with glucose .
Information for Patients Refer patients and family members to the attached Information for the User for instructions describing the method of preparing and injecting glucagon .
Advise the patient and family members to become familiar with the technique of preparing glucagon before an emergency arises .
Instruct patients to use 1 mg for adults and 1 / 2 the adult dose ( 0 . 5 mg ) for pediatric patients weighing less than 44 lb ( 20 kg ) .
Patients and family members should be informed of the following measures to prevent hypoglycemic reactions due to insulin : Reasonable uniformity from day to day with regard to diet , insulin , and exercise .
Careful adjustment of the insulin program so that the type ( or types ) of insulin , dose , and time ( or times ) of administration are suited to the individual patient .
Frequent testing of the blood or urine for glucose so that a change in insulin requirements can be foreseen .
Routine carrying of sugar , candy , or other readily absorbable carbohydrate by the patient so that it may be taken at the first warning of an oncoming reaction .
To prevent severe hypoglycemia , patients and family members should be informed of the symptoms of mild hypoglycemia and how to treat it appropriately .
Family members should be informed to arouse the patient as quickly as possible because prolonged hypoglycemia may result in damage to the central nervous system .
Glucagon or intravenous glucose should awaken the patient sufficiently so that oral carbohydrates may be taken .
Patients should be advised to inform their physician when hypoglycemic reactions occur so that the treatment regimen may be adjusted if necessary .
Laboratory Tests Blood glucose determinations should be obtained to follow the patient with hypoglycemia until patient is asymptomatic .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Because glucagon is usually given in a single dose and has a very short half - life , no studies have been done regarding carcinogenesis .
In a series of studies examining effects on the bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames ) assay , it was determined that an increase in colony counts was related to technical difficulties in running this assay with peptides and was not due to mutagenic activities of the glucagon .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 2 mg / kg glucagon administered two times a day ( up to 40 times the human dose based on body surface area , mg / m2 ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies have not been performed with recombinant glucagon .
However , studies with animal - sourced glucagon were performed in rats at doses up to 2 mg / kg glucagon administered two times a day ( up to 40 times the human dose based on body surface area , mg / m2 ) , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to glucagon .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when glucagon is administered to a nursing woman .
If the drug is excreted in human milk during its short half - life , it will be hydrolyzed and absorbed like any other polypeptide .
Glucagon is not active when taken orally because it is destroyed in the gastrointestinal tract before it can be absorbed .
Pediatric Use For the treatment of severe hypoglycemia : The use of glucagon in pediatric patients has been reported to be safe and effective . 2 - 6 For use as a diagnostic aid : Effectiveness has not been established in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of glucagon did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects may include nausea and vomiting .
These reactions may also occur with hypoglycemia .
Generalized allergic reactions have been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
In a three month controlled study of 75 volunteers comparing animal - sourced glucagon with glucagon manufactured through rDNA technology , no glucagon - specific antibodies were detected in either treatment group .
Necrolytic migratory erythema ( NME ) cases have been reported postmarketing in patients receiving continuous infusions of glucagon ( see WARNINGS ) .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms — If overdosage occurs , nausea , vomiting , gastric hypotonicity , and diarrhea would be expected without causing consequential toxicity .
Intravenous administration of glucagon has been shown to have positive inotropic and chronotropic effects .
A transient increase in both blood pressure and pulse rate may occur following the administration of glucagon .
Patients taking β - blockers might be expected to have a greater increase in both pulse and blood pressure , an increase of which will be transient because of glucagon ' s short half - life .
The increase in blood pressure and pulse rate may require therapy in patients with pheochromocytoma or coronary artery disease .
When glucagon was given in large doses to patients with cardiac disease , investigators reported a positive inotropic effect .
These investigators administered glucagon in doses of 0 . 5 to 16 mg / hour by continuous infusion for periods of 5 to 166 hours .
Total doses ranged from 25 to 996 mg , and a 21 - month - old infant received approximately 8 . 25 mg in 165 hours .
Side effects included nausea , vomiting , and decreasing serum potassium concentration .
Serum potassium concentration could be maintained within normal limits with supplemental potassium .
The intravenous median lethal dose for glucagon in mice and rats is approximately 300 mg / kg and 38 . 6 mg / kg , respectively .
Because glucagon is a polypeptide , it would be rapidly destroyed in the gastrointestinal tract if it were to be accidentally ingested .
Treatment — To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
In view of the extremely short half - life of glucagon and its prompt destruction and excretion , the treatment of overdosage is symptomatic , primarily for nausea , vomiting , and possible hypokalemia .
If the patient develops a dramatic increase in blood pressure , 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure for the short time that control would be needed .
Forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or charcoal hemoperfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of glucagon .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION General Instructions for Use : The diluent is provided for use only in the preparation of glucagon for parenteral injection and for no other use .
Glucagon should not be used at concentrations greater than 1 mg / mL .
Reconstituted glucagon should be used immediately .
Discard any unused portion .
Reconstituted glucagon solutions should be used only if they are clear and of a water - like consistency .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Directions for Treatment of Severe Hypoglycemia : Severe hypoglycemia should be treated initially with intravenous glucose , if possible .
If parenteral glucose can not be used , dissolve the lyophilized glucagon using the accompanying diluting solution and use immediately .
For adults and for pediatric patients weighing more than 44 lb ( 20 kg ) , give 1 mg by subcutaneous , intramuscular , or intravenous injection .
For pediatric patients weighing less than 44 lb ( 20 kg ) , give 0 . 5 mg or a dose equivalent to 20 to 30 mcg / kg . 2 - 6 Discard any unused portion .
An unconscious patient will usually awaken within 15 minutes following the glucagon injection .
If the response is delayed , there is no contraindication to the administration of an additional dose of glucagon ; however , in view of the deleterious effects of cerebral hypoglycemia emergency aid should be sought so that parenteral glucose can be given .
After the patient responds , supplemental carbohydrate should be given to restore liver glycogen and to prevent secondary hypoglycemia .
Directions for Use as a Diagnostic Aid : Dissolve the lyophilized glucagon using the accompanying diluting solution and use immediately .
Discard any unused portion .
The doses in the following table may be administered for relaxation of the stomach , duodenum , and small bowel , depending on the onset and duration of effect required for the examination .
Since the stomach is less sensitive to the effect of glucagon , 0 . 5 mg intravenous or 2 mg intramuscular are recommended .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * Administration of 2 mg doses produces a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting than do lower doses .
For examination of the colon , it is recommended that a 2 mg dose be administered intramuscularly approximately 10 minutes prior to the procedure .
Colon relaxation and reduction of patient discomfort may allow the radiologist to perform a more satisfactory examination .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED GLUCAGEN ( R ) { GLUCAGON ( rDNA ORGIN ) FOR INJECTION } is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1323 - 1 GLUCAGEN ( R ) { GLUCAGON ( rDNA ORGIN ) FOR INJECTION } 1 mg PER KIT HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar ( NDC 0002 - 8031 - 01 ) contains 1 mg glucagon for injection ( as a sterile , lyophilized white to off - white powder ) in a single - dose vial and 1 mL of diluent for glucagon in a prefilled syringe .
Stability and Storage : Before Reconstitution — Vials of glucagon , as well as the diluent for glucagon , may be stored at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
The USP defines controlled room temperature by the following : A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
After Reconstitution — Glucagon for Injection should be used immediately .
Discard any unused portion .
REFERENCES Drug Information for the Health Care Professional .
18 th ed .
Rockville , Maryland : The United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc ; 1998 ; I : 1512 .
Gibbs et al : Use of glucagon to terminate insulin reactions in diabetic children .
Nebr Med J 1958 ; 43 : 56 - 57 .
Cornblath M , et al : Studies of carbohydrate metabolism in the newborn : Effect of glucagon on concentration of sugar in capillary blood of newborn infant .
Pediatrics 1958 ; 21 : 885 - 892 .
Carson MJ , Koch R : Clinical studies with glucagon in children .
J Pediatr 1955 ; 47 : 161 - 170 .
Shipp JC , et al : Treatment of insulin hypoglycemia in diabetic campers .
Diabetes 1964 ; 13 : 645 - 648 .
Aman J , Wranne L : Hypoglycemia in childhood diabetes II : Effect of subcutaneous or intramuscular injection of different doses of glucagon .
Acta Pediatr Scand 1988 ; 77 : 548 - 553 .
SPL UNCLASSIFIED Literature revised July 2018 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2018 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
GLU - 0003 - USPI - 20180706 INFORMATION FOR THE USER GLUCAGON FOR INJECTION BECOME FAMILIAR WITH THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE AN EMERGENCY ARISES .
DO NOT USE THIS KIT AFTER DATE STAMPED ON THE VIAL OF GLUCAGON .
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE USE OF THIS PRODUCT , CONSULT A DOCTOR , NURSE OR PHARMACIST .
Make sure that your relatives or close friends know that if you become unconscious , medical assistance must always be sought .
Glucagon may have been prescribed so that members of your household can give the injection if you become severely hypoglycemic and are unable to take sugar by mouth .
If you are unconscious , glucagon can be given while awaiting medical assistance .
Show your family members and others where you keep this kit and how to use it .
They need to know how to use it before you need it .
They can practice giving a shot by giving you your normal insulin shots .
It is important that they practice .
A person who has never given a shot probably will not be able to do it in an emergency .
IMPORTANT Act quickly .
Prolonged unconsciousness may be harmful .
These simple instructions will help you give glucagon successfully .
Turn patient on his / her side to prevent patient from choking .
The contents of the syringe are inactive .
You must mix the contents of the syringe with the glucagon in the accompanying bottle before giving injection .
( See DIRECTIONS FOR USE below . )
Do not prepare Glucagon for Injection until you are ready to use it .
WARNING : THE PATIENT MAY BE IN A COMA FROM SEVERE HYPERGLYCEMIA ( VERY HIGH BLOOD GLUCOSE ) RATHER THAN SEVERE HYPOGLYCEMIA ( VERY LOW BLOOD SUGAR ) .
IN SUCH A CASE , THE PATIENT WILL NOT RESPOND TO GLUCAGON AND REQUIRES IMMEDIATE MEDICAL ATTENTION .
INDICATIONS FOR USE Use glucagon to treat insulin coma or insulin reaction resulting from severe hypoglycemia ( very low blood sugar ) .
Symptoms of severe hypoglycemia include disorientation , unconsciousness , and seizures or convulsions .
Give glucagon if ( 1 ) the patient is unconscious ( 2 ) the patient is unable to eat sugar or a sugar - sweetened product ( 3 ) the patient is having a seizure , or ( 4 ) repeated administration of sugar or a sugar - sweetened product such as a regular soft drink or fruit juice does not improve the patient ' s condition .
Milder cases of hypoglycemia should be treated promptly by eating sugar or a sugar - sweetened product .
( See INFORMATION ON HYPOGLYCEMIA below for more information on the symptoms of hypoglycemia . )
Glucagon is not active when taken orally .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE TO PREPARE GLUCAGON FOR INJECTION Remove the flip - off seal from the bottle of glucagon .
Wipe rubber stopper on bottle with alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Remove the needle protector from the syringe , and inject the entire contents of the syringe into the bottle of glucagon .
DO NOT REMOVE THE PLASTIC CLIP FROM THE SYRINGE .
Remove syringe from the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Swirl bottle gently until glucagon dissolves completely .
GLUCAGON SHOULD NOT BE USED UNLESS THE SOLUTION IS CLEAR AND OF A WATER - LIKE CONSISTENCY .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] TO INJECT GLUCAGON Use Same Technique as for Injecting Insulin 4 .
Using the same syringe , hold bottle upside down and , making sure the needle tip remains in solution , gently withdraw all of the solution ( 1 mg mark on syringe ) from bottle .
The plastic clip on the syringe will prevent the rubber stopper from being pulled out of the syringe ; however , if the plastic plunger rod separates from the rubber stopper , simply reinsert the rod by turning it clockwise .
The usual adult dose is 1 mg .
For children weighing less than 44 lb ( 20 kg ) , give 1 / 2 adult dose ( 0 . 5 mg ) .
For children , withdraw 1 / 2 of the solution from the bottle ( 0 . 5 mg mark on syringe ) .
DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] USING THE FOLLOWING DIRECTIONS , INJECT GLUCAGON IMMEDIATELY AFTER MIXING .
Cleanse injection site on buttock , arm , or thigh with alcohol swab .
Insert the needle into the loose tissue under the cleansed injection site , and inject all ( or 1 / 2 for children weighing less than 44 lb ) of the glucagon solution .
Apply light pressure at the injection site , and withdraw the needle .
Press an alcohol swab against the injection site .
Turn the patient on his / her side .
When an unconscious person awakens , he / she may vomit .
Turning the patient on his / her side will prevent him / her from choking .
FEED THE PATIENT AS SOON AS HE / SHE AWAKENS AND IS ABLE TO SWALLOW .
Give the patient a fast - acting source of sugar ( such as a regular soft drink or fruit juice ) and a long - acting source of sugar ( such as crackers and cheese or a meat sandwich ) .
If the patient does not awaken within 15 minutes , give another dose of glucagon and INFORM A DOCTOR OR EMERGENCY SERVICES IMMEDIATELY .
Even if the glucagon revives the patient , his / her doctor should be promptly notified .
A doctor should be notified whenever severe hypoglycemic reactions occur .
INFORMATION ON HYPOGLYCEMIA Early symptoms of hypoglycemia ( low blood glucose ) include : [ MULTIMEDIA ] If not treated , the patient may progress to severe hypoglycemia that can include : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The occurrence of early symptoms calls for prompt and , if necessary , repeated administration of some form of carbohydrate .
Patients should always carry a quick source of sugar , such as candy mints or glucose tablets .
The prompt treatment of mild hypoglycemic symptoms can prevent severe hypoglycemic reactions .
If the patient does not improve or if administration of carbohydrate is impossible , glucagon should be given or the patient should be treated with intravenous glucose at a medical facility .
Glucagon , a naturally occurring substance produced by the pancreas , is helpful because it enables the patient to produce his / her own blood glucose to correct the hypoglycemia .
POSSIBLE PROBLEMS WITH GLUCAGON TREATMENT Side effects may include nausea and vomiting , a temporary increase in heart rate , and allergic reactions to glucagon or to one of the inactive ingredients in glucagon .
If you experience any other reactions which are likely to have been caused by glucagon , please contact your doctor .
STORAGE Store the kit at controlled room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) before mixing glucagon with the diluent .
Glucagon that has been mixed with diluent should be used immediately .
Discard any unused portion .
Solutions should be clear and of a water - like consistency at time of use .
Literature revised April 2018 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2018 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
GLU - 0002 - PPI - 20180418 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL , GLUCAGON 1 MG EMERGENCY KIT 1 CT Lilly Rx only Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar Glucagon for Injection 1 mg ( 1 unit ) NDC 0002 - 8031 - 01 MS8031 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Glucagon : Product of Austria Diluting Syringe : Product of Germany [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , SERIALIZED LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
