SPL UNCLASSIFIED FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and whose molecular weight is 227 . 09 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
NITRO - BID ® for topical use contains lactose and 2 % nitroglycerin in a base of lanolin , white petrolatum and purified water .
Each inch ( 2 . 5 cm ) , as squeezed from the tube , contains approximately 15 mg of nitroglycerin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the anti - anginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates had been absent from the body for several hours was their anti - anginal efficacy restored .
Pharmacokinetics : The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is about 3 L / kg , and nitroglycerin is cleared from this volume at extremely rapid rates , with a resulting serum half - life of about three minutes .
The observed clearance rates ( close to 1 L / kg / min ) greatly exceed hepatic blood flow ; known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
The first products in the metabolism of nitroglycerin are inorganic nitrate and the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols .
The dinitrates are less effective vasodilators than nitroglycerin , but they are longer - lived in the serum , and their net contribution to the overall effect of chronic nitroglycerin regimens is not known .
The dinitrates are further metabolized to ( non - vasoactive ) mononitrates and , ultimately , to glycerol and carbon dioxide .
To avoid development of tolerance to nitroglycerin , drug - free intervals of 10 - 12 hours are known to be sufficient ; shorter intervals have not been well studied .
In one well - controlled clinical trial , subjects receiving nitroglycerin appeared to exhibit a rebound or withdrawal effect , so that their exercise tolerance at the end of the daily drug - free interval was less than that exhibited by the parallel group receiving placebo .
Reliable assay techniques for plasma nitroglycerin levels have only recently become available , and studies using these techniques to define the pharmacokinetics of nitroglycerin ointment have not been reported .
Published studies using older techniques provide results that often differ , in similar experimental settings , by an order of magnitude .
The data are consistent , however , in suggesting that nitroglycerin levels rise to steady state within an hour or so of application of ointment , and that after removal of nitroglycerin ointment , levels wane with a half - life of about half an hour .
The onset of action of transdermal nitroglycerin is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode .
The maximal achievable daily duration of anti - anginal activity provided by nitroglycerin ointment therapy has not been studied .
Recent studies of other formulations of nitroglycerin suggest that the maximal achievable daily duration of anti - anginal effect from nitroglycerin ointment will be about 12 hours .
It is reasonable to believe that the rate and extent of nitroglycerin absorption from ointment may vary with the site and square measure of the skin over which a given dose of ointment is spread , but these relationships have not been adequately studied .
Clinical Trials : Controlled trials have demonstrated that nitroglycerin ointment can effectively reduce exercise - related angina for up to 7 hours after a single application .
Doses used in clinical trials have ranged from 1 / 2 inch ( 1 . 3 cm ; 7 . 5 mg ) to 2 inches ( 5 . 1 cm ; 30 mg ) , typically applied to 36 square inches ( 232 square centimeters ) of truncal skin .
In some controlled trials of other organic nitrate formulations , efficacy has declined with time .
Because controlled , long - term trials of nitroglycerin ointment have not been reported , it is not known how the efficacy of nitroglycerin ointment may vary during extended therapy .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Nitroglycerin ointment is indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of transdermal nitroglycerin is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are extremely rare , but they do occur .
Nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of nitroglycerin by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion The benefits of transdermal nitroglycerin in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use nitroglycerin in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General : Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of nitroglycerin .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops , the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is somewhat blunted .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pains , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Some clinical trials in angina patients have provided nitroglycerin for about 12 continuous hours of every 24 - hour day .
During the nitrate - free intervals in some of these trials , anginal attacks have been more easily provoked than before treatment , and patients have demonstrated hemodynamic rebound and decreased exercise tolerance .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of transdermal nitroglycerin is not known .
Information for Patients : Daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with nitroglycerin .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches are a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with nitroglycerin , since loss of headache is likely to be associated with simultaneous loss of antianginal efficacy .
Treatment with nitroglycerin may be associated with lightheadedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Patient instruction leaflet is included .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of nitroglycerin may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Studies to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Nitroglycerin ' s effect upon reproductive capacity is similarly unknown .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin .
It is also not known whether nitroglycerin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or whether it can affect reproductive capacity .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to nitroglycerin are generally dose - related , and almost all of these reactions are the result of nitroglycerin ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Allergic reactions to nitroglycerin are also uncommon , and the great majority of those reported have been cases of contact dermatitis or fixed drug eruptions in patients receiving nitroglycerin in ointments or patches .
There have been a few reports of genuine anaphylactoid reactions , and these reactions can probably occur in patients receiving nitroglycerin by any route .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients ; for further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment see OVERDOSAGE .
Data are not available to allow estimation of the frequency of adverse reactions during treatment with nitroglycerin ointment .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects : The ill effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the results of nitroglycerin ' s capacity to induce vasodilation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of nitroglycerin and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of nitroglycerin overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of nitroglycerin and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which — if any — of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ' s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or the arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of nitroglycerin can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moieties of nitroglycerin are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of nitroglycerin should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of nitroglycerin .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 - 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION As noted above ( CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , controlled trials have demonstrated that nitroglycerin ointment can effectively reduce exercise - related angina for up to 7 hours after a single application .
Doses used in clinical trials have ranged from 1 / 2 inch ( 1 . 3 cm ; 7 . 5 mg ) to 2 inches ( 5 . 1 cm ; 30 mg ) , typically applied to 36 square inches ( 232 square centimeters ) of truncal skin .
It is reasonable to believe that the rate and extent of nitroglycerin absorption from ointment may vary with the site and square measure of the skin over which a given dose of ointment is spread , but these relationships have not been adequately studied .
Controlled trials with other formulations of nitroglycerin have demonstrated that if plasma levels are maintained continuously , all anti - anginal efficacy is lost within 24 hours .
This tolerance cannot be overcome by increasing the dose of nitroglycerin .
As a result , any regimen of NITRO - BID ® administration should include a daily nitrate - free interval .
The minimum necessary length of such an interval has not been defined , but studies with other nitroglycerin formulations have shown that 10 to 12 hours is sufficient .
Thus , one appropriate dosing schedule for NITRO - BID ® would begin with two daily 1 / 2 - inch ( 7 . 5 mg ) doses , one applied on rising in the morning and one applied six hours later .
The dose could be doubled , and even doubled again , in patients tolerating this dose but failing to respond to it .
The foilpac is intended as a unit dose package only and is equivalent to approximately 1 inch as squeezed from the tube .
Use entire contents of foilpac to obtain full dose and discard immediately after use .
Each tube of ointment and each box of foilpacs is supplied with a pad of ruled , impermeable , paper applicators .
These applicators allow ointment to be absorbed through a much smaller area of skin than that used in any of the reported clinical trials , and the significance of this difference is not known .
To apply the ointment using one of the applicators , place the applicator on a flat surface , printed side down .
Squeeze the necessary amount of ointment from the tube onto the applicator , place the applicator ( ointment side down ) on the desired area of the skin , and tape the applicator into place .
HOW SUPPLIED NITRO - BID ( R ) ( NITROGLYCERIN OINTMENT USP , 2 % ) is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1340 - 1 NITRO - BID ( R ) ( NITROGLYCERIN OINTMENT USP , 2 % ) TUBE HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms NITRO - BID ® ( Nitroglycerin Ointment USP , 2 % ) , is a pale yellow ointment .
( Package includes a supply of ruled applicators for convenient application . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Close tightly , immediately after each use .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
NITRO - BID ® ( Nitroglycerin Ointment USP , 2 % ) SAVAGE LABORATORIES ® A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 I7326A / IF7326A R09 / 11 # 274 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR USAGE 1 .
Measure desired dosage of Nitroglycerin Ointment 2 % by means of the dose measuring applicator supplied with the tube .
Place the applicator on a flat surface , printed side down .
Squeeze the necessary amount of ointment from the tube onto the applicator , and place the applicator ( ointment side down ) on the desired area of the skin .
2 .
Spread the ointment using the dose measuring applicator lightly onto the chest or other areas of skin if preferred .
Do not rub into the skin .
Coverage of an area approximately the size of the dose measuring applicator ( 3 1 / 2 ′′ by 2 1 / 4 ′′ ) should be sufficient to obtain the desired clinical effects .
A larger area may be used .
3 .
Tape the applicator into place .
NOTE : NITRO - BID ® can stain clothing .
Care should be taken to completely cover the dose measuring applicator with a plastic kitchen wrap .
Dosage Instructions : Dosage instructions should be obtained from your physician .
One appropriate dosing schedule for NITRO - BID ® would begin with two daily 1 / 2 inch ( 7 . 5 mg ) doses , one applied on rising in the morning and one applied six hours later .
The dose could be doubled , and even doubled again , in patients tolerating this dose but failing to respond to it .
The foilpac is intended as a unit dose package only and is equivalent to approximately 1 inch as squeezed from the tube .
Use entire contents of foilpac to obtain full dose and discard immediately after use .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : Your daily regimen of NITRO - BID ® administration should include a nitrate - free period .
Studies have shown 10 - 12 hours is sufficient .
The most common side effect which is encountered is headache .
Faintness , flushing and dizziness may occur , especially when suddenly arising from the recumbent ( lying horizontal ) position .
If these latter symptoms do occur , it may warrant discontinuation of therapy , and your physician should be notified .
For changes in dosage and frequency of application consult your physician .
TUBE : KEEP TUBE TIGHTLY CLOSED .
foilpac ® : DISCARD IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
SAVAGE LABORATORIES ® A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 R09 / 11 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - TUBE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - BOX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED BOX LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
