SPL UNCLASSIFIED Rx Only ( pH 3 . 0 - 6 . 5 ) DESCRIPTION Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile , isotonic solution of Atropine Sulfate in Water for Injection q . s . Sodium Chloride added for isotonicity .
pH adjusted with Sulfuric Acid .
Preservative free .
Atropine is a white crystalline alkaloid which may be extracted from belladonna root and hyoscyamine or may be produced synthetically .
It is used in the form of atropine sulfate because this compound has much greater solubility in water .
The structural formula of Atropine is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Atropine has two actions .
The most important therapeutic action is the inhibition of smooth muscle and glands innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves .
Atropine also has central - nervous system activity , which may be stimulating or depressing depending upon the dose .
INDICATIONS & USAGE 1 .
In the treatment of parkinsonism .
Rigidity and tremor relieved by the apparently selective depressant action .
2 .
In the gastrointestinal tract to relieve pylorospasm , hypertonicity of the small intestine and the hypermotility of the colon .
3 .
To relieve hypertonicity of the uterine muscle .
4 .
To relax the spasm of biliary and uretered colic and bronchial spasm .
5 .
To diminish the tone of the detrusor muscle of the urinary bladder in the treatment of urinary tract disorders .
6 .
To control the crying and laughing episodes in patients with brain lesions .
7 .
In cases of closed head injuries which cause acetylcholine to be released or to be present in cerebrospinal fluid which in turn causes abnormal EEG patterns , stupor and neurological signs .
8 .
In the management of peptic ulcer .
9 .
In anesthesia to control excessive salivation and bronchial secretions .
10 .
To control rhinorrhea of acute rhinitis or hay fever .
11 .
As an antidote for pilocarpine , physostigmine , isoflurophate , choline esters , certain species of Aminata and in cases of anticholinesterase insecticide poisoning .
12 .
In poisoning by the organic phosphate cholinesterase inhibitors found in certain insecticides and by chemical warfare “ nerve gases ” , large doses of atropine relieve the muscarine - like symptoms and some of the central - nervous - system manifestations .
Adults suspected of contact with organic phosphorus insecticides of the parathion type should be given atropine sulfate , 0 . 8 mg , intramuscularly .
If an atropine effect is not apparent within thirty minutes or if definite symptoms of the poisoning occur ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , pupillary constriction , pulmonary edema , fasciculations of eyelids and tongue , jerky ocular movements , and excessive sweating , salivation , and bronchial secretion ) , atropine sulfate , 2 mg , should be given intramuscularly at hourly intervals until signs of atropinization are observed .
Up to two or three times this dose ( 4 to 6 mg ) may be required in severe cases .
Removing contaminated clothing , washing the skin , and commencing artificial respiration and supportive therapy are also indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Conditions in which inhibition of postganglionic cholinergic nerves are undesirable , such as glaucoma and tachycardia .
Also contraindicated in asthma , because the parenteral dose which might relieve asthma would have an excessive drying effect upon mucous plugs in the bronchi .
Prostatic hypertrophy , while not a contraindication , requires special attention to signs of urinary retention .
WARNINGS This drug is effective in very low dosage and overdose may cause permanent damage or death , especially in children .
WARNINGS Doses of 0 . 5 to 1 mg of atropine are mildly stimulating to the central nervous system .
Larger doses may produce mental disturbances ; still larger doses are depressing .
Death from atropine poisoning , though rare , is usually due to paralysis of the medullary centers .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in mice in doses of 50 mg / kg of body weight and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Atropine Sulfate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Toxic effects from overdosage of atropine are not uncommon , especially in children .
Individual tolerance varies greatly , but these systemic doses are likely to produce the following effects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] A scarlatiniform rash may occur .
Atropine may produce fever , particularly in children , through inhibition of heat loss by evaporation .
Although large doses of atropine may cause an alarming condition , recovery is usual .
In the treatment of atropine poisoning , respiratory assistance and symptomatic support are indicated .
Pilocarpine is sometimes given but is of limited value .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE 1 .
If marked excitement is present , a short acting barbiturate , chloral hydrate of paraldehyde may be used for sedation .
Large doses should be avoided if possible and must be carefully controlled so that they will not add to the depressive stages of atropine poisoning .
2 .
Artificial respiration with oxygen is necessary when respiration is depressed .
3 .
Depression may be controlled by use of caffeine , sodium benzoate or picrotoxin together with the inhalation of oxygen .
4 .
As a physiologic antidote , neostigmine methylsulfate may be given by intramuscular injection in doses of 500 mcg to 1 mg and repeated every 2 to 9 hours .
5 .
Remaining therapy is purely symptomatic .
Icebags and alcohol sponges help to reduce fever , especially in children .
Careful nursing is essential .
The room should be darkened , because of the patient ’ s marked photophobia .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dose of atropine is 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg .
Suggested doses for children are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] As indicated previously , however , these doses may be considerably exceeded in certain cases .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration , whenever solution and container permit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1339 - 1 ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 0 . 4 mg / mL 1 mL VIAL HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN1010 Rev . 1 / 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABELED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED VIAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
