Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Not for Direct Infusion FOR ADDITIVE USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION IN IV FLUIDS .
Glass Fliptop Vial DESCRIPTION Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of sodium acetate in water for injection .
The solution is administered after dilution by the intravenous route as an electrolyte replenisher .
It must not be administered undiluted .
Each mL contains 164 mg of sodium acetate ( anhydrous ) which provides 2 mEq each of sodium ( Na + ) and acetate ( CH3COO - ) .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
May contain acetic acid for pH adjustment ; the pH is 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
The osmolar concentration is 4 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
; specific gravity 1 . 081 .
The solution is intended as an alternative to sodium chloride to provide sodium ion ( Na + ) for addition to large volume infusion fluids for intravenous use .
Sodium Acetate , USP anhydrous is chemically designated CH3COONa , a hygroscopic powder very soluble in water .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 140 mEq / liter .
The sodium ion exerts a primary role in controlling total body water and its distribution .
Acetate ( CH3COO - ) is a hydrogen ion acceptor .
It also serves as an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 - ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This conversion has been shown to proceed readily , even in the presence of severe liver disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is indicated as a source of sodium for addition to large volume intravenous fluids to prevent or correct hyponatremia in patients with restricted or no oral intake .
It is also useful as an additive for preparing specific intravenous fluid formulas when the needs of the patient cannot be met by standard electrolyte or nutrient solutions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention .
WARNINGS Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) must be diluted before use .
To avoid sodium overload and water retention , infuse sodium - containing solutions slowly .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of this ion , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of this solution ( after appropriate dilution ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Excessive administration of potassium free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Sodium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by the serum sodium level .
Caution should be exercised in administering sodium - containing solutions to patients with severe renal function impairment , cirrhosis , cardiac failure , or other edematous or sodium - retaining states , as well as in patients with oliguria or anuria .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Acetate Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether Sodium Acetate Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Acetate Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness have been established in the age groups infant to adolescent .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Sodium ions are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium - containing solutions .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , discontinue infusion containing sodium acetate immediately and institute corrective therapy as indicated to reduce elevated serum sodium levels , and restore acid - base balance if necessary .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is administered intravenously only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the individual needs of the patient .
Serum sodium should be monitored as a guide to dosage .
Using aseptic technique , transfer the desired amount to other intravenous fluids to provide the appropriate number of milliequivalents ( mEq ) of sodium acetate .
Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) in the Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with manual , gravity flow operations and automated compounding devices for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures .
Admixtures must be stored under refrigeration and used within 24 hours after compounding .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Directions for Dispensing From Pharmacy Bulk Package The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the Pharmacy Admixtures Service only .
For hanger application , peel of the paper liner from both ends of the tape hanger to expose ¾ inch long adhesive portions .
Adhere each end to the label on the bottle .
The vials should be suspended as a unit in the laminar flow hood .
A single entry through the vial closure should be made with a sterile dispensing set or transfer device .
Transfer individual doses to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions .
Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage and multiple entries will increase the potential of microbial and particulate contamination .
The above process should be carried out under a laminar flow hood using aseptic technique .
Discard any unused portion within 4 hours after initial closure entry .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 2 mEq / mL ) is supplied in Pharmacy Bulk Packages as follows : Total AmountsNDC No .
Fill Volume Na + Acetate Concentration 69784 - 230 - 20 50 mL 100 mEq 100 mEq 16 . 4 % 69784 - 231 - 20 100 mL 200 mEq 200 mEq 16 . 4 % Store at 20 to 25ºC ( 68 to 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : May 2020 Manufactured by : S . M . Farmaceutici SRL Tito – 85050 , Italy Distributed by : Woodward Pharma Services LLC Wixom , MI 48393 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 50 mL Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 100 mEq / 50 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Not for Direct Infusion CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED For Intravenous Use Only * Rx only NDC 69784 - 230 - 20 Date entered ____________ Time ___________ Each mL contains sodium acetate , anhydrous 164 mg .
May contain acetic acid for pH adjustment .
4 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
pH 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
* For preparing admixtures only .
See insert for complete dosage information and proper use of this container .
Discard vial 4 hours after initial entry .
A single entry through the vial closure should be made with a sterile dispensing set or transfer device .
Transfer individual doses to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions .
Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended .
The above process should be carried out under a laminar flow hood using aseptic technique .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Contains no more than 200 mcg / L of aluminum .
Dist .
by Woodward Pharma Services LLC , Wixom , MI 48393 Batch : Exp : MFD PZXXXXX / XX [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 mL Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 200 mEq / 100 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Not for Direct Infusion CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED For Intravenous Use Only * Rx only NDC 69784 - 231 - 20 Date entered ____________ Time ___________ Each mL contains sodium acetate , anhydrous 164 mg .
May contain acetic acid for pH adjustment .
4 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
pH 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
* For preparing admixtures only .
See insert for complete dosage information and proper use of this container .
Discard vial 4 hours after initial entry .
A single entry through the vial closure should be made with a sterile dispensing set or transfer device .
Transfer individual doses to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions .
Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended .
The above process should be carried out under a laminar flow hood using aseptic technique .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Contains no more than 200 mcg / L of aluminum .
Dist .
by Woodward Pharma Services LLC , Wixom , MI 48393 Batch : Exp : MFD PZXXXXX / XX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
