DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution , USP is an orally active cholinesterase inhibitor .
Chemically , pyridostigmine bromide is 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution , USP contains 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide per teaspoonful in a vehicle containing 5 % alcohol , glycerin , lactic acid , sodium benzoate , sorbitol solution , sucrose , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , raspberry flavor and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTION Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution inhibits the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase and thereby permits freer transmission of nerve impulses across the neuromuscular junction .
Pyridostigmine is an analog of neostigmine ( Prostigmin ™ ) , but differs from it in certain clinically significant respects ; for example , pyridostigmine is characterized by a longer duration of action and fewer gastrointestinal side effects .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution , USP is useful in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution is contraindicated in mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction , and particular caution should be used in its administration to patients with bronchial asthma .
Care should be observed in the use of atropine for counteracting side effects , as discussed below .
WARNINGS Although failure of patients to show clinical improvement may reflect underdosage , it can also be indicative of overdosage .
As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness which , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Myasthenic crisis due to an increase in the severity of the disease is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness , and thus may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
Such differentiation is extremely important , since increases in doses of Pyridostigmine or other drugs of this class in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or " insensitive " state could have grave consequences .
Osserman and Genkins1 indicate that the differential diagnosis of the two types of crisis may require the use of Tensilon ™ ( edrophonium chloride ) as well as clinical judgment .
The treatment of the two conditions obviously differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis suggests the need for more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , the diagnosis of cholinergic crisis , according to Osserman and Genkins1 , calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to abolish or obtund gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
For detailed information on the management of patients with myasthenia gravis , the physician is referred to one of the excellent reviews such as those by Osserman and Genkins , 2 Grob3 or Schwab . 4 , 5 USAGE IN PREGNANCY The safety of Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ' s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney . 6 , 7 , 8 Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect . 6 , 7 PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution are most commonly related to over dosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine , but for reasons shown in the preceding section the expedient is not without danger .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novitium Pharma LLC at 1 - 855 - 204 - 1431 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution is available in the following form : Solution : raspberry - flavored , containing 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide per teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) .
This form permits accurate dosage adjustment for children and " brittle " myasthenic patients who require fractions of 60 mg doses .
It is more easily swallowed , especially in the morning , by patients with bulbar involvement .
Dosage : The size and frequency of the dosage must be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient .
Solution : The average dose is ten 5 mL teaspoonfuls daily , spaced to provide maximum relief when maximum strength is needed .
In severe cases as many as 25 teaspoonfuls a day may be required , while in mild cases one to six teaspoonfuls a day may suffice .
NOTE : For information on a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis , and for the evaluation and stabilization of therapy , please see product literature on Tensilon ( edrophonium chloride ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution USP , 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide per teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) and 5 % alcohol - bottles of 16 fluid ounces ( 16 fl .
oz . )
( NDC 70954 - 148 - 10 ) .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] REFERENCES • Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis : Reduction in mortality rate after crisis .
JAMA .
Jan 1963 ; 183 : 97 - 101 .
• Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis .
NY State J Med .
June 1961 ; 61 : 2076 - 2085 .
• Grob D . Myasthenia gravis .
A review of pathogenesis and treatment .
Arch Intern Med .
Oct 1961 ; 108 : 615 - 638 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 596 - 597 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 717 - 719 .
• Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB .
Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1980 ; 28 : No 1 , 78 - 81 .
• Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
In : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , ed .
Anaesthesialagy .
( Hamburg , Germany : Congress ; Sep 14 - 21 , 1980 ; 222 - 223 . )
( Int Congr .
No . 538 ) , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica ; 1981 .
• Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM , Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1985 ; 5 : 495 - 501 Manufactured by : Novitium Pharma LLC 70 Lake Drive , East Windsor New Jersey 08520 Revised : 01 / 2019 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Pyridostigmine Bromide Oral Solution , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
