HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use MANNITOL INJECTION safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for MANNITOL INJECTION .
MANNITOL injection , for intravenous use Initial U . S . Approval : 1964 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mannitol Injection is indicated for the following purposes in adults and pediatric patients .
Therapeutic Use Reduction of intracranial pressure and brain mass .
( 1 ) Reduction of high intraocular pressure .
( 1 ) Diagnostic Use Measurement of glomerular filtration rate .
( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions ( 2 - 2 . 1 ) : For intravenous use only .
Do not add mannitol in whole blood for transfusion .
Recommended Dosage ( 2 - 2 . 2 ) : The dosage , concentration and rate of administration depend on the age , weight and condition of the patient .
Reduction of Intracranial Pressure and Brain Mass : Adults : 0 . 25 to 2 g / kg body weight as a 15 % to 25 % solution administered over a period of 30 to 60 minutes Pediatric patients : 1 to 2 g / kg body weight or 30 to 60 g / m2 body surface area over a period of 30 to 60 minutes .
Small or debilitated patients : 500 mg / kg Reduction of Intraocular Pressure : Adults : 0 . 25 to 2 g / kg body weight as a 15 % to 25 % solution administered over a period of 30 to 60 minutes Pediatric patients : 1 to 2 g / kg body weight or 30 to 60 g / m2 body surface area over a period of 30 to 60 minutes Small or debilitated patients : 500 mg / kg Measurement of Glomerular Filtration Rate ( GFR ) : 100 mL of a 20 % solution ( 20 g ) should be diluted with 180 mL of sodium chloride injection ( normal saline ) or 200 mL of a 10 % solution ( 20 g ) should be diluted with 80 mL of sodium chloride injection ( normal saline ) .
The resulting 280 mL of 7 . 2 % solution is infused at a rate of 20 mL per minute .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Mannitol Injection , USP : 25 % ( 250 mg / mL ) : 25 grams of mannitol , USP per 100 mL in a single - dose 50 mL fliptop vial ( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Well established anuria due to severe renal disease .
( 4 ) Severe pulmonary congestion or frank pulmonary edema .
( 4 ) Active intracranial bleeding except during craniotomy .
( 4 ) Severe dehydration .
( 4 ) Progressive heart failure or pulmonary congestion after institution of mannitol therapy .
( 4 ) Do not administer to patients with a known hypersensitivity to mannitol .
( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal Complications Including Renal Failure : Risk factors include pre - existing renal disease , conditions that put patients at risk for renal failure and concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics .
Avoid concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics with mannitol .
( 5 - 5 . 1 , 8 - 8 . 6 ) Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances : Mannitol administration may obscure and intensify inadequate hydration or hypovolemia .
Excessive loss of water and electrolytes may lead to serious imbalances , e . g . , hypernatremia , hyponatremia .
Accumulation of mannitol may intensify existing or latent congestive heart failure .
Monitoring of cardiovascular status and electrolyte levels is recommended .
( 5 - 5 . 2 ) Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity : Mannitol may increase cerebral blood flow and the risk of postoperative bleeding in neurosurgical patients .
It may also worsen intracranial hypertension in children who develop a generalized cerebral hyperemia during the first 24 to 48 hours post injury .
( 5 - 5 . 3 ) Monitoring : Discontinue mannitol if renal , cardiac or pulmonary status worsens , or CNS toxicity develops .
( 5 - 5 . 4 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are pulmonary congestion , fluid and electrolyte imbalance , acidosis , electrolyte loss , dryness of mouth , thirst , marked diuresis , urinary retention , edema , headache , blurred vision , convulsions , nausea , vomiting , rhinitis , arm pain , skin necrosis , thrombophlebitis , chills , dizziness , urticaria , dehydration , hypotension , tachycardia , fever and angina - like chest pains .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hospira , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 441 - 4100 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Drugs and Diuretics : May increase the risk of renal failure ; avoid concomitant use .
( 7 - 7 . 1 , 7 - 7 . 2 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : 9 / 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Important Preparation and Administration Instructions 2 . 2 Recommended Dosage 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Renal Complications Including Renal Failure 5 . 2 Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances 5 . 3 Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity 5 . 4 Monitoring 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Nephrotoxic Drugs 7 . 2 Diuretics 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 2 Lactation 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 8 . 6 Renal Impairment 10 OVERDOSAGE 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Mannitol Injection is indicated for the following purposes in adults and pediatric patients .
Therapeutic Use Reduction of intracranial pressure and brain mass .
Reduction of high intraocular pressure .
Diagnostic Use Measurement of glomerular filtration rate .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Important Preparation and Administration Instructions For intravenous use only .
Do not administer intramuscularly or subcutaneously .
Never add mannitol in whole blood for transfusion .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Do not administer 25 % mannitol if the fliptop vial seal is not intact .
Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Do not place 25 % Mannitol Injection in polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) bags ; a white flocculent precipitate may form from contact with PVC surfaces .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever container and solution permit .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage Reduction of Intracranial Pressure and Brain Mass In adults a dose of 0 . 25 to 2 g / kg body weight as a 15 % to 25 % solution administered over a period of 30 to 60 minutes ; pediatric patients 1 to 2 g / kg body weight or 30 to 60 g / m2 body surface area over a period of 30 to 60 minutes .
In small or debilitated patients , a dose of 500 mg / kg may be sufficient .
Careful evaluation must be made of the circulatory and renal reserve prior to and during administration of mannitol at the higher doses and rapid infusion rates .
Careful attention must be paid to fluid and electrolyte balance , body weight , and total input and output before and after infusion of mannitol .
Evidence of reduced cerebral spinal fluid pressure must be observed within 15 minutes after starting infusion .
Reduction of Intraocular Pressure In adults a dose of 0 . 25 to 2 g / kg body weight as a 15 % to 25 % solution administered over a period of 30 to 60 minutes ; pediatric patients 1 to 2 g / kg body weight or 30 to 60 g / m2 body surface area over a period of 30 to 60 minutes .
In small or debilitated patients , a dose of 500 mg / kg may be sufficient .
When used preoperatively , the dose should be given one to one and one - half hours before surgery to achieve maximal reduction of intraocular pressure before operation .
Measurement of Glomerular Filtration Rate ( GFR ) 100 mL of a 20 % solution ( 20 g ) should be diluted with 180 mL of sodium chloride injection ( normal saline ) or 200 mL of a 10 % solution ( 20 g ) should be diluted with 80 mL of sodium chloride injection ( normal saline ) .
The resulting 280 mL of 7 . 2 % solution is infused at a rate of 20 mL per minute .
The urine is collected by catheter for a specific period of time and analyzed for mannitol excreted in mg per minute .
A blood sample is drawn at the start and at the end of the time period and the concentration of mannitol determined in mg / mL of plasma .
GFR is the number of mL of plasma that must have been filtered to account for the amount excreted per minute in the urine .
Normal clearance rates are approximately 125 mL / minute for men ; 116 mL / minute for women .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Mannitol Injection , USP : 25 % ( 250 mg / mL ) : 25 grams of mannitol , USP per 100 mL in a single - dose 50 mL fliptop vial 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mannitol Injection is contraindicated in patients with : Well established anuria due to severe renal disease .
Severe pulmonary congestion or frank pulmonary edema .
Active intracranial bleeding except during craniotomy .
Severe dehydration .
Progressive heart failure or pulmonary congestion after institution of mannitol therapy .
Do not administer to patients with a known hypersensitivity to mannitol .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Renal Complications Including Renal Failure Renal complications , including irreversible renal failure have been reported in patients receiving mannitol .
Reversible , oliguric acute kidney injury ( AKI ) has occurred in patients with normal pretreatment renal function who received mannitol .
Osmotic nephrosis , a reversible vacuolization of the tubules of no known clinical significance , may proceed to severe irreversible nephrosis , so that the renal function must be closely monitored during mannitol infusion .
Patients with pre - existing renal disease , patients with conditions that put them at risk for renal failure , or those receiving potentially nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics , are at increased risk for renal failure .
Avoid concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides ) or other diuretics with mannitol [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
If urine output declines during mannitol infusion , the patient ' s clinical status should be closely reviewed and mannitol infusion suspended if necessary .
5 . 2 Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances The obligatory diuretic response following rapid infusion of 25 % mannitol may further aggravate pre - existing hemoconcentration .
Excessive loss of water and electrolytes may lead to serious imbalances .
With continued administration of mannitol , loss of water in excess of electrolytes can cause hypernatremia .
Electrolyte measurements , including sodium and potassium are therefore of vital importance in monitoring the infusion of mannitol .
The shift of sodium - free intracellular fluid into the extracellular compartment following mannitol infusion may lower serum sodium concentration and aggravate pre - existing hyponatremia .
By sustaining diuresis , mannitol administration may obscure and intensify inadequate hydration or hypovolemia .
Accumulation of mannitol may result in overexpansion of the extracellular fluid which may intensify existing or latent congestive heart failure .
The cardiovascular status of the patient should be carefully evaluated before rapidly administering mannitol since sudden expansion of the extracellular fluid may lead to fulminating congestive heart failure .
5 . 3 Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity Mannitol injection may increase cerebral blood flow and the risk of postoperative bleeding in neurosurgical patients .
Mannitol may increase cerebral blood flow and worsen intracranial hypertension in children who develop generalized cerebral hyperemia during the first 24 to 48 hours post injury .
5 . 4 Monitoring Serum sodium and potassium should be carefully monitored during mannitol administration .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic counter measures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Electrolyte - free mannitol solutions should not be given conjointly with blood .
If it is essential that blood be given simultaneously , at least 20 mEq of sodium chloride should be added to each liter of mannitol solution to avoid pseudoagglutination .
When exposed to low temperatures , solutions of mannitol may crystallize .
If crystals are observed , the container should be warmed to redissolve , then cooled to body temperature before administering [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
When infusing 25 % mannitol , the administration set should include a filter .
Do not infuse mannitol solution if crystals are present .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use mannitol were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Nephrotoxic Drugs Patients receiving potentially nephrotoxic drugs are at increased risk for renal failure .
Avoid concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides ) with mannitol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
7 . 2 Diuretics Pateints receiving other diuretics are at increased risk for renal failure .
Avoid concomitant administration of other diuretics with mannitol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women that establish developmental toxicity related to the use of mannitol injection .
Mannitol crosses the placenta and may cause fluid shifts that could potentially result in adverse effects in the fetus ( see Data ) .
The available data do not establish the presence or absence of developmental toxicity related to the use of mannitol .
There are limited animal data in the published literature .
The effects of mannitol on embryo - fetal development have not been evaluated ; however , fluid shifts occurred in animal studies in response to maternal infusion of mannitol .
Mannitol injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published literature reports the presence of mannitol in amniotic fluid when mannitol is administered to pregnant women during the third trimester of pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Lactation studies have not been conducted with mannitol .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Mannitol injection should be administered to lactating women only if clearly indicated .
Studies assessing the effects of mannitol injection in breastfed children have not been performed .
Studies to assess the effect of mannitol on milk production or excretion have not been performed .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for mannitol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from mannitol or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Mannitol is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in elderly patients with impaired renal function .
Evaluate the renal , cardiac and pulmonary status of the patient and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances prior to administration of mannitol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Patients with pre - existing renal disease , patients with conditions that put them at high risk for renal failure , or those receiving potentially nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics , are at increased risk of renal failure with administration of mannitol .
Evaluate the renal , cardiac and pulmonary status of the patient and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances prior to administration of mannitol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Too rapid infusion of large amounts of mannitol will cause a shift of intracellular water into the extracellular compartment resulting in cellular dehydration and overexpansion of the intravascular space with hyponatremia , congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema .
Repeated doses should not be given to patients with persistent oliguria as this can produce a hyperosmolar state and precipitate congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema due to volume overload .
Dosage must be carefully monitored and adjusted in accordance with the clinical situation to avoid the consequences of overdosage [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Mannitol Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of mannitol in water for injection available in a concentration of 25 % in a fliptop vial for administration by intravenous infusion only .
The content and characteristics are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required , the unused portion should be discarded .
Mannitol Injection , USP is a parenteral obligatory osmotic diuretic .
Mannitol , USP is chemically designated D - mannitol ( C6H14O6 ) , a white crystalline powder or free - flowing granules freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : * May contain sodium bicarbonate and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
25 25 1372 5 . 9 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mannitol , when administered intravenously , exerts its osmotic diuretic effect as a solute of relatively small molecular size largely confined to the extracellular space .
Mannitol hinders tubular reabsorption of water and enhances excretion of sodium and chloride by elevating the osmolarity of the glomerular filtrate .
By increasing the osmotic pressure of plasma and the extracellular space , intravenously administered mannitol will induce the movement of intracellular water to the extracellular and vascular spaces .
This action underlies the role of mannitol in reducing intracranial pressure , intracranial edema , and intraocular pressure .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Mannitol distributes largely to the extracellular space within 20 to 40 minutes after intravenous administration .
The plasma half - life for this distribution phase is 0 . 16 hour .
The volume of distribution of mannitol is approximately 17 L in adults .
Elimination In subjects with normal renal function , the total clearance is 87 to 109 mL / minute .
The elimination half - life of mannitol is 0 . 5 to 2 . 5 hours Metabolism Only a relatively small amount of the mannitol dose is metabolized after intravenous administration to healthy subjects .
Excretion Approximately 80 % of a 100 g dose appears in the urine in 3 hours .
The drug is freely filtered by the glomeruli , with less than 10 % tubular reabsorption ; it is not secreted by tubular cells .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment , the elimination half - life of mannitol is prolonged .
In a published study , in patients with renal impairment including acute renal failure and end stage renal failure , the elimination half - life of mannitol was estimated at about 36 hours , based on serum osmolarity .
In patients with renal impairment on dialysis , the elimination half - life of mannitol was reduced to 6 and 21 hours during hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Mannitol Injection have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mannitol Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : 25 % MANNITOL INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1468 - 1 25 % MANNITOL INJECTION , USP 12 . 5 g / 50 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) 50 mL VIAL NDC 51662 - 1468 - 2 25 % MANNITOL INJECTION , USP 12 . 5 g / 50 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) 50 mL VIAL , 1 VIAL PER POUCH NDC 51662 - 1468 - 3 25 % MANNITOL INJECTION , USP 12 . 5 g / 50 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) 50 mL VIAL , 1 VIAL PER POUCH , 25 POUCHES PER CASE HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 NOTE : Crystals may form in mannitol solutions especially if the solutions are chilled .
To dissolve the crystals , warm the bottle in hot water at 80 ° C and periodically shake vigorously .
25 % Mannitol Injection , USP may be autoclaved at 121 ° C for 20 minutes at 15 psi .
Remove cover from fliptop vial and cleanse stopper with antiseptic before use .
Cool to body temperature or less before administering .
When infusing 25 % mannitol concentrations , the administration set should include a filter .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
INSTRUCTlONS FOR USE Remove cover and cleanse stopper with antiseptic before use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients or caregivers of the following risks of Mannitol Injection : Renal Complications Including Renal Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] CNS Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] SPL UNCLASSIFIED Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1227 - 1 . 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
4 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL OPT .
4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED VIAL LABELING PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED VIAL LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 51662 - 1468 - 2 POUCH LABELING NDC 51662 - 1468 - 2 POUCH LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 51662 - 1468 - 3 CASE LABELING CASE LABELING NDC 51662 - 1468 - 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 51662 - 1468 - 3 SERIALIZED RFID LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
