DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTIONHydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen is supplied in tablet form for oral administration . Hydrocodone bitartrate is an opioid analgesic and antitussive and occurs as fine , white crystals or as a crystalline powder .
It is affectedby light .
The chemical name is 4 , 5 a - Epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one tartrate ( 1 : 1 ) hydrate ( 2 : 5 ) .
It has the followingstructural formula : Acetaminophen , 4 - hydroxyacetanilide , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesicand antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets USP for oral administration are available in a variety of strengths as described inthe following table .
Hydrocodone Strength Bitartrate Acetaminophen 2 . 5 mg / 500 mg 2 . 5 mg 500 mg 5 mg / 500 mg 5 mg 500 mg 7 . 5 mg / 325 mg 7 . 5 mg 325 mg 7 . 5 mg / 500 mg 7 . 5 mg 500 mg 7 . 5 mg / 650 mg 7 . 5 mg 650 mg 7 . 5 mg / 750 mg 7 . 5 mg 750 mg 10 mg / 325 mg 10 mg 325 mg 10 mg / 500 mg 10 mg 500 mg 10 mg / 650 mg 10 mg 650 mg 10 mg / 660 mg 10 mg 660 mg 10 mg / 750 mg 10 mg 750 mg In addition , each tablet contains the following INACTIVE INGREDIENT inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , starch and stearic acid ; except the 7 . 5 mg / 325 mg , 10 mg / 325 mg and 10 page 2 of 7 mg / 500 mg tablets do not contain anhydrous lactose .
The 7 . 5 mg / 325 mg tablets include FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake ; the 7 . 5 mg / 650 mg tablets include FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake ; the 10 mg / 325 mg and 10 mg / 750 mg tablets include D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake ; the 10 mg / 500 mg tablets include FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake ; and the 10 mg / 650 mg tablets include FD & CBlue # 1 Aluminum Lake and D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 1 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYHydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic and antitussive with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine .
Mostof these involve the central nervous system and smooth muscle .
The precise MECHANISM OF ACTION mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates isnot known , although it is believed to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system .
In addition to analgesia , narcotics may produce drowsiness , changes in mood and mental clouding . The analgesic action of acetaminophen involves peripheral influences , but the specific mechanism is as yet undetermined .
Antipyreticactivity is mediated through hypothalamic heat regulating centers .
Acetaminophen inhibits prostaglandin synthetase .
Therapeuticdoses of acetaminophen have negligible effects on the cardiovascular or respiratory systems ; however , toxic doses may causecirculatory failure and rapid , shallow breathing .
PHARMACOKINETICS Pharmacokinetics : The behavior of the individual components is described below . Hydrocodone : Following a 10 mg oral dose of hydrocodone administered to five adult male subjects , the mean peak concentration was 23 . 6 261 5 . 2 ng / mL .
Maximum serum levels were achieved at 1 . 3 261 0 . 3 hours and the half - life was determined to be 3 . 8 261 0 . 3 hours .
Hydrocodoneexhibits a complex pattern of metabolism including O - demethylation , N - demethylation and 6 - ketoreduction to the corresponding 6 - aand 6 - 337 - hydroxymetabolites .
See OVERDOSAGE OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information . Acetaminophen : Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - lifeis 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally byliver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urinewithin 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug . See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information . INDICATIONS AND USAGEHydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CONTRAINDICATIONSThis product should not be administered to patients who have previously exhibited Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone oracetaminophen . Patients known to be hypersensitive to other opioids may exhibit cross - sensitivity to hydrocodone .
WARNINGS WARNINGSRespiratory Depression : At high doses or in sensitive patients , hydrocodone may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brainstem respiratory center .
Hydrocodone also affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm , and may produce irregular and periodicbreathing . Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure : The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggeratedin the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcoticsproduce ADVERSE REACTIONS adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries . Acute Abdominal Conditions : The administration of narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
PRECAUTIONS PRECAUTIONSGeneralSpecial Risk Patients : As with any narcotic analgesic agent , hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be used withcaution in elderly or debilitated patients , and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison222sdisease , prostatic hypertrophy or urethal stricture .
The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratorydepression should be kept in mind . Cough Reflex : Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease .
page 3 of 7 INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Information for PatientsHydrocodone , like all narcotics , may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardoustasks such as driving a car or operating machinery ; patients should be cautioned accordingly . Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression , when taken with this combination product , and shouldbe avoided . Hydrocodone may be habit forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , andno more frequently than prescribed . Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when hydrocodone bitartrate andacetaminophen tablets are used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease .
LABORATORY TESTS Laboratory TestsIn patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactionsPatients receiving other narcotic analgesics , antihistamines , antipsychotics , antianxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( includingalcohol ) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
Whencombined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced . The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either theantidepressant or hydrocodone . Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsAcetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid . Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityNo adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether hydrocodone or acetaminophen have a potential forcarcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy TERATOGENIC EFFECTS Teratogenic effectsPregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should beused during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
NONTERATOGENIC EFFECTS Nonteratogenic effectsBabies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent .
The withdrawal signsinclude irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting , and fever .
The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose .
There isno consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal . Labor and DeliveryAs with all narcotics , administration of this product to the mother shortly before delivery may result in some degree of respiratorydepression in the newborn , especially if higher doses are used .
NURSING MOTHERS Nursing MothersAcetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of its effects on nursing infants is not known .
It is notknown whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of thepotential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocodone and acetaminophen , a decision should be made whether todiscontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
PEDIATRIC USE Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
GERIATRIC USE Geriatric Use CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical studies of hydrocodone bitartrate 5 mg and acetaminophen 500 mg did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identifieddifferences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , andof concomitant disease or other drug therapy . Hydrocodone and the major metabolites of acetaminophen are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney .
Thus the risk of toxicreactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function due to the accumulation of the parent compound and / or metabolites page 4 of 7 in the plasma .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and itmay be useful to monitor renal function . Hydrocodone may cause confusion and over - sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses ofhydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and observed closely . ADVERSE REACTIONSThe most frequently reported adverse reactions are lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea and vomiting .
These effects seem tobe more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients , and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patientlies down . Other adverse reactions include : Central Nervous System : Drowsiness , mental clouding , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , anxiety , fear , dysphoria , psychic DEPENDENCE dependence , mood changes . Gastrointestinal System : Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may produce constipation . Genitourinary System : Ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates . Respiratory Depression : Hydrocodone bitartrate may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brainstem respiratory centers ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Special Senses : Cases of hearing impairment or permanent loss have been reported predominantly in patients with chronic overdose . Dermatological : Skin rash , pruritus . The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis . Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE DRUG ABUSE ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE Controlled SubstanceHydrocodone bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are classified as a Schedule lll controlled substance . Abuse and DependencePsychic dependence , physical dependence , and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics ; therefore , thisproduct should be prescribed and administered with caution .
However , psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used for a short time for the treatment of pain . Physical dependence , the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of awithdrawal syndrome , assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued narcotic use , although somemild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy .
Tolerance , in which increasingly large dosesare required in order to produce the same degree of analgesia , is manifested initially by a shortened duration of analgesic effect , andsubsequently by decreases in the intensity of analgesia .
The rate of development of tolerance varies among patients . OVERDOSAGEFollowing an acute overdosage , toxicity may result from hydrocodone or acetaminophen . Signs and Symptoms : Hydrocodone : Serious overdose with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammyskin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death mayoccur . Acetaminophen : In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubularnecrosis , hypoglycemic coma , and thrombocytopenia may also occur . Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise . Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
In adults , hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 grams , or fatalities with less than 15 grams . Treatment : A single or multiple overdose with hydrocodone and acetaminophen is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with aregional poison control center is recommended . Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Vomiting should beinduced mechanically , or with syrup of ipecac , if the patient is alert ( adequate pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes ) .
Oral activatedcharcoal ( 1 g / kg ) should follow gastric emptying .
The first dose should be accompanied by an appropriate cathartic .
If repeated dosesare used , the cathartic might be included with alternate doses as required .
Hypotension is usually hypovolemic and should respond to page 5 of 7 fluids .
Vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be insertedbefore gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and , when necessary , to provide assisted respiration . Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritonealdialysis , or preferably hemodialysis may be considered .
If hypoprothrombinemia occurs due to acetaminophen overdose , vitamin Kshould be administered intravenously . Naloxone , a narcotic antagonist , can reverse respiratory depression and coma associated with opioid overdose .
Naloxonehydrochloride 0 . 4 mg to 2 mg is given parenterally .
Since the duration of action of hydrocodone may exceed that of the naloxone , the patient should be kept under continuous surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed tomaintain adequate respiration .
A narcotic antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory orcardiovascular depression . If the dose of acetaminophen may have exceeded 140 mg / kg , acetylcysteine should be administered as early as possible .
Serumacetaminophen levels should be obtained , since levels four or more hours following ingestion help predict acetaminophen toxicity .
Donot await acetaminophen assay results before initiating treatment .
Hepatic enzymes should be obtained initially , and repeated at 24 - hour intervals . Methemoglobinemia over 30 % should be treated with methylene blue by slow intravenous administration . The toxic dose for adults for acetaminophen is 10 g . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONDosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
However , it should be kept in mindthat tolerance to hydrocodone can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related .
2 . 5 mg / 500 mg5 mg / 500 mg The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The totaldaily dosage should not exceed 8 tablets 7 . 5 mg / 325 mg7 . 5 mg / 500 mg7 . 5 mg / 650 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The total dailydosage should not exceed 6 tablets .
7 . 5 mg / 750 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The total dailydosage should not exceed 5 tablets .
10 mg / 325 mg10 mg / 500 mg10 mg / 650 mg10 mg / 660 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The total dailydosage should not exceed 6 tablets .
10 mg / 750 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The total dailydosage should not exceed 5 tablets .
HOW SUPPLIED HOW SUPPLIEDHydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets USP are available in10 mg / 500 mg 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 500 mg acetaminophen , capsule - shaped , blue tablets bisected on one side anddebossed with WATSON 540 on the other side , supplied in unit dose packages of : 120 NDC 21695 - 273 - 72 90 NDC 21695 - 273 - 90 60 NDC 21695 - 273 - 60 45 NDC 21695 - 273 - 45 30 NDC 21695 - 273 - 30 28 NDC 21695 - 273 - 28 12 NDC 21695 - 273 - 12 8 NDC 21695 - 273 - 08 Store at 20260 - 25260 C ( 68260 - 77260 F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
Rx onlyManufactured by : Watson Laboratories , Inc . Corona , CA 92880 USADistributed by : Watson Pharma , Inc . Corona , CA 92880 USA Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
