Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne treatment Use For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients carbomer , cetearyl alcohol , cocamidopropyl betaine , dimethyl isosorbide , hydrogenated castor oil , imidurea , methylparaben , mineral oil , PEG - 14 M , salicylic acid , sodium cocyl isethionate , sodium hydroxide , titanium dioxide , water , zea mays ( corn ) starch Questions ?
1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
