DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg PURPOSE Emergency contraceptive USE for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) WARNINGS Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs DO NOT USE • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control ASK A DOCTOR OR PHARMACIST BEFORE USE IF YOU ARE taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT YOU MAY HAVE • menstrual changes • nausea • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • headache • dizziness • breast pain • vomiting KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
• if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
OTHER INFORMATION • read the instructions , warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• do not use if package is open or blister seal is broken or missing • store levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] INACTIVE INGREDIENTS cellulose microcrystalline , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , poloxamer 188 QUESTIONS ?
Call 1 - 855 - 288 - 4717 Rapha Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Orlando , Florida 32819 USA PATIENT INFORMATION Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Step .
What You Need to Know What is Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg is not .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method When not to use Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg should not be used : • as a regular birth control method , because it ’ s not as effective as regular birth control .
• if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg work ?
Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg , the better it works .
How effective is Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
If Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg worked ?
You will know Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• when used as directed , Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number at 1 - 855 - 288 - 4717 Other Information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : cellulose microcrystalline , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , poloxamer 188 1 - 855 - 288 - 4717 www . raphpharma . com If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
Rapha Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Orlando , Florida 32819 USA PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 MG ( 1 TABLET CARTON LABEL ) - NDC 69953 - 628 - 60 Levonorgestrel Tablets ( levonorgestrel ) tablets 1 . 5 mg Emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
Rapha Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 MG ( 1 TABLET CARTON LABEL ) - NDC 69953 - 617 - 42 Levonorgestrel Tablets ( levonorgestrel ) tablets 1 . 5 mg Emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
Rapha Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
