For the treatment of acne Salicylic Acid 2 % Purified water , Disodium EDTA , Chamomile Extract , Aloe Vera Gel , Bioterge AS - 40 , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Glucamate DOE - 120 , Glydant , Sodium Chloride For external use only .
• avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
• using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a physician Do not use • if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever / fever reducer • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
Ask a doctor before use if • you have liver disease • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , or kidney disease • you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist beforeuse if you are taking a prescription drug for gout , diabetes or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if • an allergic reaction occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• use twice daily • add water • apply to hands • massage gently to the affected area • rinse thoroughly For external use only .
ZPAZYT ACNE WASH CLEANSER satisfaction guaranteed clinically proven safe and effective on sensitive skin dermatologist recommended salicylic acid acne medication NET WT 6 . 25 OZ ( 177 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
