Drug Facts Active Ingredient Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Inactive Ingredients Glacial Acetic Acid , Laureth - 4 , Propylene glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Sodium Metabisulfite Purpose Topical Antifungal Uses Cures most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ring worm ( tinea corporis ) .
Under professional supervision , Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution can be used for the treatment of superficial skin infections caused by yeast ( Candida albicans ) .
WARNINGS DO NOT USE ON CHILDREN UNDER TWO YEARS OF AGE EXCEPT UNDER THE ADVICE AND SUPERVISION OF A DOCTOR .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact Poison Control Center immediately .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within four weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor or pharmacist .
Do not use if you are diabetic or have circulatory , renal , or hepatic problems , consult a doctor or pharmacist before using .
Directions Cleanse and dry affected areas .
Apply a thin application twice a day ( morning and night ) on skin under nails and surrounding cuticle areas or as recommended by your doctor or pharmacist .
Remove Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution from any untreated areas .
Remove from all inanimate environmental surfaces .
Supervise children in the use of this product .
For athlete ’ s foot , pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once a day .
For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm use daily for 4 weeks .
For fungal infections of the nail bed , if conditions persist , consult a doctor who may choose to debride or remove the nail to allow application of Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution to the skin of the nail bed .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other Information Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
If freezing occurs , warm to room temperature .
For product questions , or to report a serious adverse event , call 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 .
Regardless of your level of personal hygiene , your skin can be covered with microscopic organisms , including molds and yeast like fungi .
While most microorganisms are not harmful , some can invade your skin and cause an infection .
FUNGUS TYPES : Mold - like fungi called dermatophytes cause athlete ’ s foot , jock itch , and ringworm of the skin or scalp .
These fungi live on dead tissue of your hair , nails , and the outer layer of your skin .
Poor hygiene , continually moist skin , and minor skin or nail injuries increase your chances of developing a fungal infection .
Athlete ’ s Foot and Jock Itch : Athlete ’ s foot and jock itch are skin conditions caused by fungi that thrive in warm , moist areas .
In all cases , itching and rash are the most noticeable symptoms .
Athlete ’ s foot produces itching , stinging , and burning on the soles of the feet , palms and between fingers and toes .
Cracking and peeling of the skin may occur as well .
Jock itch consists of itching in the groin and anal areas .
Ringworm : Most common in children , ringworm causes a ringshaped pattern on the skin or scalp that grow outward as the infection spreads .
The ring itself is the most actively infected area , while the skin inside the ring is less actively infected .
Ringworm is very contagious and can be passed from shared hats , combs or brushes and barber tools .
Ringworm infections can also develop from contact with pets or domestic animals .
To treat the infection , wash the area and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution twice a day ( morning and evening ) over the affected area or as recommended by a doctor .
Use daily for 4 weeks .
PREVENTIONS AND TREATMENT : Athlete ’ s Foot and Jock Itch : Good personal hygiene is essential in preventing or treating athlete ’ s foot and jock itch .
To prevent athlete ’ s foot , wear well - fitting , well - ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once a day .
For treatment , apply Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution twice daily ( morning and evening ) or as directed by a doctor and pay special attention to the areas between toes .
Apply twice a day on skin under nails and surrounding cuticle areas .
Continue treatment twice a day for 4 weeks .
To prevent jock itch , keep the groin and anal areas clean and dry , avoid chaffing and launder athletic supports frequently .
For treatment , use Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution in the same manner over the affected area .
Continue treatment for 2 weeks .
Fingernails and Toenails - General Information : Your nails are produced from cells in the tips of your fingers and toes and are composed of laminated layers a protein called “ Keratin ” .
Each nail grows towards the end of your finger or toe from a nail root that extends back into a groove of skin .
Just in front of your nail root is your cuticle skin , which is attached to the nail surface and helps protect the new keratin cells that slowly emerge from below .
The following lists conditions that may develop in your nails and how to take proper care of your nails .
Paronychia Signs and Symptoms : ( Red swollen area on the skin next to a nail ) : Paronychia is a superficial infection of the skin around the nail , most commonly caused by either staphylococci or yeast .
Superficial pus blisters may appear .
Pressing the affected area can produce oozing pus .
Paronychia may also be caused by fungal infections and is common among those with diabetes mellitus and those who may have their hands in water for long periods .
Like other fungal infections , paronychia may develop slowly , but prove to be very persistent .
To treat the infection , soak the affected area in clean , warm water .
This will help decrease inflammation of the tissues .
After soaking , apply an antibacterial or antifungal agent to the affected area .
Consult a doctor if you are not sure whether a paronychia infection is bacterial or fungal .
Fungal Infections of the Nails : Fungus spores may attach themselves to the dense bed of keratin cells that make up your nails .
These microscopic organisms can then digest the keratin and live within it .
The resulting infection is called Onychomycosis ( tinea of the nails ) , may persist indefinitely .
It can cause nails to thicken , discolor , become lusterless and crumble along the edges .
Onychomycosis can be contracted by walking barefoot in public places or may develop as a complication of athlete ’ s foot .
The associated infection of the foot or hand may be mild , producing no inflammation , or it may be acute , accompanied by blisters and painful swelling .
Once the nails become involved , they may even become detached and shed and may be entirely destroyed .
Consult a doctor if you suspect an Onychomycosis infection .
A simple test can identify the fungus and rule out other diseases of the nails .
A topical antifungal solution , such as Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution can treat the skin under the nails and surrounding cuticle area but will not penetrate the nails themselves .
If you have a fungal infection that is disabling or excessively disfiguring , consult your doctor to find out the best treatment for you .
GENERAL INFORMATION About Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution : Important Tips on Using Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution : Use Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution as soon as an infection is detected .
This will kill the fungus before it gets out of control and prevents it from spreading to other areas .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC # 50268 - 503 - 29 1 fl .
oz .
( 29 . 57 mL ) bottle with brush applicator containing an alcohol - free clear solution .
For more information , see enclosed package insert .
Questions ?
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS : What is the active ingredient in Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution ?
Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution contains 2 % miconazole nitrate , the maximum strength antifungal allowed by the FDA without a prescription .
Do I apply Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution to the nail ?
No , nothing penetrates nails .
Fungus is not growing on the nail but on the nail bed ( skin ) .
Apply Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution on skin under nails and surrounding cuticle areas twice a day ( morning and evening ) .
When can I expect results ?
You may start seeing results in as little as 4 to 6 weeks .
How long does it take for a nail to grow ?
It could take 8 to 10 months for a nail to grow out completely .
Why does your package say : “ This product is not effective on the scalp or nails ” ?
In 1994 , the FDA ruled that no over - the - counter antifungal product is effective on the nails .
The FDA ’ s opinion was that antifungal products available without a prescription could not penetrate the nails and are therefore , ineffective in treating them .
The statement “ this product is not effective on scalp or nails ” was subsequently required on the labels of all over - the - counter antifungal products .
Fungus is an infection of the skin , not the nail .
Can I use Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution for Athlete ’ s Foot ?
Yes , Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution is a potent antifungal .
It treats athlete ’ s foot and ringworm .
For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , apply Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution to the affected area twice a day for 4 weeks ; pay special attention to spaces between the toes .
Can children use Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution ?
Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution is safe and effective for children over 2 years of age .
Children under 2 years of age , use only under physician supervision .
What happens if Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution spills ?
Care should be taken to avoid spilling because Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Solution may damage counter tops , porcelain , stainless steel , flooring , etc .
For product questions , or to report a serious adverse event , call 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 .
AvKARE , Pulaski , TN 38478 www . avkare . com AV 07 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 29 . 57 mL Bottle Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
