Active Ingredient ( per 120 mL ) Activated Charcoal , USP 25 g Purpose Poison Adsorbent Uses • For emergency use to adsorb swallowed poisons .
Warnings Do not use • until after the patient has vomited , unless directed by a health professional • in persons that are not fully conscious • unless directed by a health professional , if turpentine , corrosives , such as alkalies ( lye ) and strong acids , or petroleum distillates , such as kerosene , gasoline , paint thinner , cleaning fluid or furniture polish , have been ingested When using this product severe cramping and diarrhea may be experienced .
If Pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Shake vigorously to suspend charcoal before use .
• Remove foil seal underneath cap and replace cap .
• Cut off delivery tip of bottle 3 / 4 inch from end to insert drinking straw included with bottle .
• Pull or cut off tip from included cherry flabor and squeeze flavor into straw .
• Administer entire 240 mL if possible .
• Repeat dose immediately with Insta - Char Aqueous base product if possible .
• If previous attempts to contact a poison control center .
emergency medical facility , of health professionsl were unsuccessful , continue trying .
• Keep patient active and moving .
• Save the container of poison .
Age Dose Children 1 to 12 years old weighing at least 16 kg ( 36 lbs . )
Adults and children 12 and over and weighing at least 32 kg ( 71 lbs . )
15 - 30 g activated charcoal or 1 - 2 g per kg of body weight .
If a second dose is recommended , the additional dose should be Insta - Char in an Aqueous Base unless otherwise directed by a physician .
50 - 100 g ( 1 - 2 adult bottles ) or 1 - 2 g per kg of body weight .
If a second bottle is recommended , the additional bottle should be Insta - Char in an Aqueous Base unless otherwise directed by a physician .
Other information • Drinking straw and cherry flavor included Inactive Ingredients citric acid , glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitol Flavor Ingredients artificial flavor , citric acid , FD and C red # 40 , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , water , xanthan gum Questions ?
888 - 655 - 1505 If possible call a Poison Control Center , emergency medical facility , or health professional for help before using this product .
If help cannot be reached quickly , follow directions on this label .
Read the warnings and directions as soon as you buy this product .
Insert emergency phone number ( s ) in space provided below on the label .
Label The product package shown above represents a sample of that currently in use .
Additional packaging may also be available .
Inst - Char Sorbitol Poison adsorbent 120 mL Distributed by : Vistapharm Inc .
Largo , FL 33771 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
