Rx only DESCRIPTION : Human chorionic gonadotropin ( HCG ) , a polypeptide hormone produced by the human placenta , is composed of an alpha and a beta sub - unit .
The alpha sub - unit is essentially identical to the alpha sub - units of the human pituitary gonadotropins , luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , as well as to the alpha sub - unit of human thyroid - stimulating hormone ( TSH ) .
The beta sub - units of these hormones differ in amino acid sequence .
Chorionic gonadotropin is obtained from the human pregnancy urine .
It is standardized by a biological assay procedure .
Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP is available in multiple dose vials containing 10 , 000 USP units with accompanying Bacteriostatic Water for Injection for reconstitution .
When reconstituted with 10 mL of the accompanying diluent each vial contains : Chorionic gonadotropin 10 , 000 units mannitol 100 mg benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % water for injection q . s . Buffered with dibasic sodium phosphate and monobasic sodium phosphate .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been used for pH adjustment ( 6 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) .
Nitrogen gas is used in the freeze drying process .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The action of HCG is virtually identical to that of pituitary LH , although HCG appears to have a small degree of FSH activity as well .
It stimulates production of gonadal steroid hormones by stimulating the interstitial cells ( Leydig cells ) of the testis to produce androgens and the corpus luteum of the ovary to produce progesterone .
Androgen stimulation in the male leads to the development of secondary sex characteristics and may stimulate testicular descent when no anatomical impediment to descent is present .
This descent is usually reversible when HCG is discontinued .
During the normal menstrual cycle , LH participates with FSH in the development and maturation of the normal ovarian follicle , and the mid - cycle LH surge triggers ovulation .
HCG can substitute for LH in this function .
During a normal pregnancy , HCG secreted by the placenta maintains the corpus luteum after LH secretion decreases , supporting continued secretion of estrogen and progesterone and preventing menstruation .
HCG HAS NO KNOWN EFFECT ON FAT MOBILIZATION , APPETITE OR SENSE OF HUNGER , OR BODY FAT DISTRIBUTION .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : HCG HAS NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED TO BE EFFECTIVE ADJUNCTIVE THERAPY IN THE TREATMENT OF OBESITY .
THERE IS NO SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE THAT IT INCREASES WEIGHT LOSS BEYOND THAT RESULTING FROM CALORIC RESTRICTION , THAT IT CAUSES A MORE ATTRACTIVE OR ‘‘ NORMAL ’’ DISTRIBUTION OF FAT , OR THAT IT DECREASES THE HUNGER AND DISCOMFORT ASSOCIATED WITH CALORIE - RESTRICTED DIETS .
• Prepubertal cryptorchidism not due to anatomical obstruction .
In general , HCG is thought to induce testicular descent in situations when descent would have occurred at puberty .
HCG thus may help predict whether or not orchiopexy will be needed in the future .
Although , in some cases , descent following HCG administration is permanent , in most cases , the response is temporary .
Therapy is usually instituted between the ages four and nine .
• Selected cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( hypogonadism secondary to a pituitary deficiency ) in males .
• Induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory , infertile woman in whom the cause of anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure , and who has been appropriately pretreated with human menotropins .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Precocious puberty , prostatic carcinoma or other androgen - dependent neoplasm , prior allergic reaction to HCG .
WARNINGS : HCG should be used in conjunction with human menopausal gonadotropins only by physicians experienced with infertility problems who are familiar with the criteria for patient selection , contraindications , warnings , precautions and adverse reactions described in the package insert for menotropins .
The principal serious adverse reactions are : ( 1 ) Ovarian hyperstimulation , a syndrome of sudden ovarian enlargement , ascites with or without pain and / or pleural effusion , ( 2 ) Rupture of ovarian cysts with resultant hemoperitoneum , ( 3 ) Multiple births and ( 4 ) Arterial thromboembolism .
Anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with urinary - derived HCG products .
PRECAUTIONS : General Induction of androgen secretion by HCG may induce precocious puberty in patients treated for cryptorchidism .
Therapy should be discontinued if signs of precocious puberty occur .
Since androgens may cause fluid retention , HCG should be used with caution in patients with cardiac or renal disease , epilepsy , migraine or asthma .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Chorionic gonadotropin may interfere with radioimmunoassay for gonadotropins , particularly luteinizing hormone .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of chorionic gonadotropin .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of chorionic gonadotropin in children below the age of four have not been established .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C – Chorionic gonadotropin may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Defects of forelimbs and central nervous system and alterations in sex ratio have been reported in mice receiving combined gonadotropin and chorionic gonadotropin therapy in dosages to induce superovulation .
Multiple ovulations with resulting plural gestations ( mostly twins ) have been reported to occur in approximately 20 % of pregnancies when conception has followed chorionic gonadotropin therapy .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether chorionic gonadotropin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when chorionic gonadotropin is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Headache , irritability , restlessness , depression , fatigue , edema , precocious puberty , gynecomastia and pain at the site of injection .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Intramuscular Use Only The dosage regimen employed in any particular case will depend upon the indication for use , the age and weight of the patient and the physician ’ s preference .
The following regimens have been advocated by various authorities .
Prepubertal Cryptorchidism Not Due To Anatomical Obstruction • 4 , 000 USP units three times weekly for three weeks .
• 5 , 000 USP units every second day for four injections .
• 15 injections of 500 to 1 , 000 USP units over a period of six weeks .
• 500 USP units three times weekly for four to six weeks .
If this course of treatment is not successful , another is begun one month later giving 1 , 000 USP units per injection .
Selected Cases Of Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism In Males • 500 to 1 , 000 USP units three times a week for three weeks , followed by the same dose twice a week for three weeks .
• 4 , 000 USP units three times weekly for six to nine months , following which the dosage may be reduced to 2 , 000 USP units three times weekly for an additional three months .
Induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory , infertile woman in whom the cause of anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure and who has been appropriately pretreated with human menotropins ( see prescribing information for menotropins for dosage and administration for that drug product ) .
5 , 000 to 10 , 000 USP units one day following the last dose of menotropins .
( A dosage of 10 , 000 units is recommended in the labeling for menotropins . )
IMPORTANT : USE COMPLETELY WITHIN 60 DAYS AFTER RECONSTITUTION .
REFRIGERATE AFTER RECONSTITUTION .
DIRECTIONS FOR RECONSTITUTION : Two - Vial Package Withdraw sterile air from lyophilized vial and inject into diluent vial .
Remove 10 mL from diluent vial and add to lyophilized vial ; agitate gently until solution is complete .
HOW SUPPLIED : Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP , lyophilized , is supplied in two - vial packages including Bacteriostatic Water for Injection as diluent as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
325011 63323 - 030 - 11 One carton containing Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP , 10 , 000 USP units per vial in a 10 mL multiple dose vial with accompanying diluent .
25021 63323 - 025 - 10 Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP , 10 , 000 USP units per vial in a 10 mL multiple dose vial with accompanying diluent in packages of 10 .
The product is assayed in accord with the USP method and potencies refer to USP units ( International Units ) defined in terms of the USP Chorionic Gonadotropin Reference Standard .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . us 45792 H Revised : February 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Chorionic Gonadotropin 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Label Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP 10 , 000 USP units per vial For intramuscular use only .
Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Bacteriostatic Water 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Label Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP NOT FOR USE IN NEWBORNS .
10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Chorionic Gonadotropin 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Carton Panel Chorionic Gonadotropin for Injection , USP 10 , 000 USP units per vial For intramuscular use only .
With Bacteriostatic Water for injection , USP as diluent Rx only Two - vial set 10 mL Multiple Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
