Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid ( 0 . 5 % ) Purpose Acne treatment Uses For the treatment of acne .
Warnings • For external use only .
When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , use only one topical acne medication at a time .
• Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
In swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions for Use • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Water / Eau , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Cyclodextrin , Polysorbate 20 , Xanthan Gum , 4 - Terpineol * , Triethanolamine , Galactoarabinan , Zinc Gluconate , Sodium Coco PG - Dimonium Chloride Phosphate , Leptospermum Scoparium Branch / Leaf Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Dipostassium Glycyrrhizate , Panthenol , Disodium EDTA , Cetearyl Ethylhexanoate , Butylene Glycol , Nasturtium Officinale Extract , Arctium Lappa Root Extract , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Pyridoxine HCL , Retinyl Palmitate .
Principal Labeling PARABEN FREE salicylic acid acne treatment 1 fl .
oz .
29 mL 120 applications All Skin Types This exclusive treatment formula gently and comprehensively controls the factors that contribute to the cycle of acne - troubled skin .
Features an exclusive blend of nourishing antioxidants and purifying botanicals to help normalize sebum , unclog pores , speed healing , and reduce redness caused by acne .
With continued use , skin will become visibly smoother , clearer , and shine free .
• Not tested on animals • 100 % free of occlusive oils Shaklee Dist .
by / par Shaklee Corporation 4747 Willow Road Pleasanton , CA 94588 USA Item # 39075 • Breakthrough patented formula • Contains botanical extracts : - tea tree ( Melaleuca alternifolia ) oil - manuka ( Leptospermum scoparium ) oil - licorice ( Dipotassium glycyrrhizate ) extract - burdock ( Arctium lappa ) root extract - watercress ( Nasturtium officinale ) extract - aloe vera ( Aloe barbadensis ) leaf juice • Features antioxidant vitamins A and E • Gentle enough to use daily for maximum acne control • 100 % fragrance and paraben free • Allergy tested • Clinically formulated • Dermatologist tested Do not store at temperatures above 10 O ° F . U . S . Palent : 6 , 403 , 110 Apply this exclusive facial formula to help keep skin blemish free , speed healing and reduce redness caused by acne .
Gentle enough to use daily , this unique blend of botanicals and nourishing antioxidants effectively controls the factors that contribute to the cycle of acnetroubled skin .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Keep out of eyes .
“ Keep out of reach of children .
If excessive dryness or peeling occurs , reduce the application to once a day or every other day .
Directions : Apply one to three times daily after cleansing and toning .
Allow to dry after application .
Follow with the Enfuselle treatment or moisturizer for your skin type .
Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
