Drug Facts Mineral Oil ( 14 % w / w ) ............................................. Skin Protectant Petrolatum ( 74 . 9 % w / w ) ........................................... Skin Protectant Phenylephrine HCl ( 0 . 25 % w / w ) .................. Vasoconstrictor Uses • Helps relieve the anorectal symptoms associated with hemorrhoids ( pain , soreness , burning ) • Temporarily reduces the swelling associated with irritated hemorrhoidal tissue and other anorectal disorders Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • an allergic reaction develops • the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain , or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults : when possible , clean affected area with mild soap or warm water , rinse thoroughly , and then gently dry ( patting or blotting ) with tissue or soft cloth before use • To use applicator , attach it to the tube , lubricate well , then gently insert part way into anus and squeeze tube to deliver medication .
Thoroughly cleanse applicator after use with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , when waking up and after each bowel movement • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Alpha Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , Benzoic Acid , Butylated Hydroxyanisole , Corn Oil , Glycerin , Lanolin , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , PEG - 100 Stearate , Propylene Glycol , Thymus Vulgaris ( Thyme ) Flower / Leaf Oil , White Wax PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
