1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KRINTAFEL is indicated for the radical cure ( prevention of relapse ) of Plasmodium vivax malaria in patients aged 16 years and older who are receiving chloroquine therapy for acute P . vivax infection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Limitations of Use • • KRINTAFEL is NOT indicated for the treatment of acute P . vivax malaria .
• • Concomitant use of KRINTAFEL with antimalarials other than chloroquine is not recommended because of the risk of recurrence of P . vivax malaria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
KRINTAFEL is an antimalarial indicated for the radical cure ( prevention of relapse ) of Plasmodium vivax malaria in patients aged 16 years and older who are receiving chloroquine therapy for acute P . vivax infection .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use • • KRINTAFEL is NOT indicated for the treatment of acute P . vivax malaria .
( 1 ) • • The concomitant use of KRINTAFEL with antimalarials other than chloroquine is not recommended because of the risk of recurrence of P . vivax malaria .
( 1 , 5 . 6 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • All patients must be tested for glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency prior to prescribing KRINTAFEL .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with KRINTAFEL .
( 2 . 1 ) • • The recommended dose of KRINTAFEL in patients aged 16 years and older is a single dose of 300 mg administered as two 150 - mg KRINTAFEL tablets taken together .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Coadminister KRINTAFEL on the first or second day of chloroquine therapy for the acute P . vivax malaria .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Administer KRINTAFEL with food .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Tests to be Performed Prior to Treatment with KRINTAFEL All patients must be tested for glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency prior to prescribing KRINTAFEL [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with KRINTAFEL [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage and Administration The recommended dose of KRINTAFEL in patients aged 16 years and older is a single dose of 300 mg administered as two 150 - mg tablets taken together .
Coadminister KRINTAFEL on the first or second day of chloroquine therapy for acute P . vivax malaria [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Administer KRINTAFEL with food to increase systemic absorption [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Swallow tablets whole .
Do not break , crush , or chew the tablets .
In the event of vomiting within 1 hour after dosing , a repeat dose should be given .
Re - dosing should not be attempted more than once .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS KRINTAFEL tablets are pink , film ‑ coated , capsule - shaped tablets debossed with ‘ GS J11 ’ on one side and contain 150 mg of tafenoquine .
Tablets : 150 mg of tafenoquine ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS KRINTAFEL is contraindicated in : • • Patients with G6PD deficiency or unknown G6PD status due to the risk of hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Breastfeeding by a lactating woman when the infant is found to be G6PD deficient or if the G6PD status of the infant is unknown [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• • Patients with known hypersensitivity to tafenoquine , other 8 - aminoquinolines , or any component of KRINTAFEL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • G6PD deficiency or unknown G6PD status .
( 4 ) • • Breastfeeding by a lactating woman when the infant is found to be G6PD deficient or if G6PD status is unknown .
( 4 , 8 . 2 ) • • Known hypersensitivity reactions to tafenoquine , other 8 - aminoquinolines , or any component of KRINTAFEL .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hemolytic Anemia : G6PD testing must be performed before prescribing KRINTAFEL due to the risk of hemolytic anemia .
Monitor patients for clinical signs or symptoms of hemolysis .
( 5 . 1 ) • • G6PD Deficiency in Pregnancy or Lactation : KRINTAFEL may cause hemolytic anemia when administered to a pregnant woman with a G6PD - deficient fetus .
KRINTAFEL is not recommended during pregnancy .
A G6PD - deficient infant may be at risk for hemolytic anemia from exposure to KRINTAFEL through breast milk .
Check infant ’ s G6PD status before breastfeeding begins .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 ) • • Methemoglobinemia : Asymptomatic elevations in blood methemoglobin have been observed .
Initiate appropriate therapy if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Psychiatric Effects : Serious psychiatric adverse reactions have been observed in patients with a previous history of psychiatric conditions at doses higher than the approved dose .
The benefit of treatment with KRINTAFEL must be weighed against the potential risk for psychiatric adverse reactions in patients with a history of psychiatric illness .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , angioedema ) have been observed with administration of KRINTAFEL .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , institute appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Due to the long half - life of KRINTAFEL ( 15 days ) , psychiatric effects and hypersensitivity reactions may be delayed in onset and / or duration .
( 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 12 . 3 ) • • Risk of P . vivax Malaria Recurrence : Lack of efficacy in reducing P . vivax malaria recurrence in patients treated with KRINTAFEL combined with dihydroartemisinin / piperaquine ( not approved artemisinin - containing antimalarial ) was seen in a clinical trial .
Use with antimalarials other than chloroquine is not recommended .
( 1 , 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hemolytic Anemia Due to the risk of hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency , G6PD testing must be performed before prescribing KRINTAFEL [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Due to the limitations of G6PD tests , physicians need to be aware of residual risk of hemolysis and adequate medical support and follow - up to manage hemolytic risk should be available .
Treatment with KRINTAFEL is contraindicated in patients with G6PD deficiency or unknown G6PD status [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Patients were excluded from clinical trials of KRINTAFEL if they had a G6PD enzyme activity level < 70 % of the site median value for G6PD normal activity [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In clinical trials , declines in hemoglobin levels were reported in some G6PD - normal patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for clinical signs or symptoms of hemolysis .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if signs of hemolysis occur .
5 . 2G6PD Deficiency in Pregnancy or Lactation Potential Harm to the Fetus The use of KRINTAFEL during pregnancy may cause hemolytic anemia in a G6PD - deficient fetus .
Even if a pregnant woman has normal levels of G6PD , the fetus could be G6PD deficient .
Advise females of reproductive potential that treatment with KRINTAFEL during pregnancy is not recommended and to avoid pregnancy or use effective contraception for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Potential Harm to the Breastfeeding Infant A G6PD - deficient infant may be at risk for hemolytic anemia from exposure to KRINTAFEL through breast milk .
Infant G6PD status should be checked before breastfeeding begins .
KRINTAFEL is contraindicated in breastfeeding women when the infant is found to be G6PD deficient or the G6PD status of the infant is unknown [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Advise the woman with a G6PD - deficient infant or if the G6PD status of the infant is unknown not to breastfeed for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Methemoglobinemia Asymptomatic elevations in methemoglobin have been observed in the clinical trials of KRINTAFEL [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Institute appropriate therapy if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia occur .
Carefully monitor individuals with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) - dependent methemoglobin reductase deficiency .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if signs of methemoglobinemia occur .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Effects Psychiatric adverse reactions including anxiety ( < 1 % ) , abnormal dreams ( < 1 % ) , and insomnia ( 3 % ) have been reported in clinical trials of KRINTAFEL [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Two cases of depression and 2 cases of psychosis have occurred primarily in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders following receipt of single doses of tafenoquine that were higher than the approved 300 - mg dose ( 350 mg to 600 mg ) .
Safety and effectiveness of KRINTAFEL have not been established at doses or regimens other than the approved regimen ; use of KRINTAFEL at doses or regimens other than a 300 - mg single dose is not approved by FDA .
The benefit of treatment with KRINTAFEL must be weighed against the potential risk for psychiatric adverse reactions in patients with a history of psychiatric illness .
Due to the long half - life of KRINTAFEL ( approximately 15 days ) , signs or symptoms of psychiatric adverse reactions that may occur could be delayed in onset and / or duration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , angioedema , urticaria ) have been observed with administration of KRINTAFEL [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Institute appropriate therapy if hypersensitivity reactions occur .
Do not re - administer KRINTAFEL .
KRINTAFEL is contraindicated in patients who develop hypersensitivity to tafenoquine or any component of KRINTAFEL or other 8 - aminoquinolines [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Due to the long half - life of KRINTAFEL ( approximately 15 days ) , signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity adverse reactions that may occur could be delayed in onset and / or duration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if signs of hypersensitivity occur .
5 . 6 Risk of P . vivax Malaria Recurrence Lack of efficacy in reducing P . vivax malaria recurrence in patients treated with KRINTAFEL combined with an artemisinin - containing antimalarial was seen in a clinical trial ( NCT02802501 ) .
In this double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled trial in which all patients with P . vivax malaria were treated with dihydroartemisinin / piperaquine ( not approved artemisinin - containing antimalarial ) and were coadministered KRINTAFEL , primaquine , or placebo , lack of efficacy ( recurrence rates at 6 months following treatment ) was seen in patients treated with KRINTAFEL .
Concomitant administration of KRINTAFEL with antimalarials other than chloroquine is not recommended .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions have been observed with KRINTAFEL and are discussed in detail in the Warnings and Precautions section : • • Hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Psychiatric effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) were dizziness , nausea , vomiting , headache , and decreased hemoglobin .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below reflect exposure to 4 , 129 subjects , of whom 810 received a 300 - mg single dose of KRINTAFEL .
KRINTAFEL was evaluated in patients with P . vivax malaria ( n = 483 ) in 3 randomized , double - blind trials including a placebo - controlled trial comparing KRINTAFEL plus chloroquine ( n = 260 ) with chloroquine alone ( Trial 1 ) , a placebo - controlled dose - ranging trial ( Trial 2 ) ( n = 57 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , and a hematologic safety trial ( Trial 3 , NCT02216123 ) ( n = 166 ) .
In Trial 1 , in patients with P . vivax malaria , the most common adverse reactions reported in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with KRINTAFEL are listed in Table 1 .
Patients included in the trial had a mean age of 35 ( range : 16 to 79 years ) , were 75 % male and from the following regions : 70 % Latin America ( Brazil and Peru ) , 19 % Southeast ( SE ) Asia ( Thailand , Cambodia , and the Philippines ) , and 11 % Africa ( Ethiopia ) .
Table 1 .
Selected Adverse Reactionsa Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients with P . vivax Malaria Receiving KRINTAFEL in a Randomized , Active - Controlled Trial ( Trial 1 ) a Adverse reactions reported prior to Day 29 as subsequent adverse reactions can be confounded by recurrence of malaria or retreatment with another agent from the quinoline class .
Adverse Reaction Chloroquine KRINTAFEL + Chloroquine ( n = 133 ) ( n = 260 ) % % Dizziness 3 8 Nausea 7 6 Vomiting 5 6 Decreased Hemoglobin 2 5 Headache 7 5 Other Adverse Reactions Reported with KRINTAFEL Clinically significant adverse reactions with KRINTAFEL 300 - mg single dose in clinical trials ( n = 810 ) in ≤ 3 % of subjects are listed below : Psychiatric Disorders : Anxiety , insomnia , abnormal dreams .
Nervous System Disorders : Somnolence .
Laboratory Investigations : Increased blood creatinine , increased blood methemoglobin , increased alanine aminotransferase .
Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , angioedema , urticaria ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Eye Disorders : Vortex keratopathy , photophobia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid coadministration with drugs that are substrates of organic cation transporter - 2 ( OCT2 ) or multidrug and toxin extrusion ( MATE ) transporters .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effect of KRINTAFEL on Organic Cation Transporter - 2 ( OCT2 ) and Multidrug and Toxin Extrusion ( MATE ) Substrates The effect of coadministration of tafenoquine on the pharmacokinetics of OCT2 and MATE substrates in humans is unknown .
However , in vitro observations suggest the potential for increased concentrations of these substrates [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] which may increase the risk of toxicity of these drugs .
Avoid coadministration of KRINTAFEL with OCT2 and MATE substrates ( e . g . , dofetilide , metformin ) .
If coadministration cannot be avoided , monitor for drug - related toxicities and consider dosage reduction if needed based on approved product labeling of the coadministered drug .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed a G6PD - deficient infant or infant with unknown G6PD status for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The use of KRINTAFEL during pregnancy may cause hemolytic anemia in a fetus who is G6PD deficient .
Treatment with KRINTAFEL during pregnancy is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Available data with use of KRINTAFEL in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal studies , there were increased abortions , with and without maternal toxicity , when KRINTAFEL was given orally to pregnant rabbits at and above doses equivalent to about 0 . 4 times the clinical exposure based on body surface area comparisons .
No fetotoxicity was observed at doses equivalent to the clinical exposure ( based on body surface area comparisons ) in a similar study in rats .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk : Malaria during pregnancy increases the risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes , including maternal anemia , prematurity , spontaneous abortion , and stillbirth .
Data Animal Data : Tafenoquine resulted in dose - related abortions when given orally to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis ( Gestation Days 6 to 18 ) at doses of 7 mg / kg ( about 0 . 4 times the clinical exposure based on body surface area comparisons ) and above .
Doses higher than 7 mg / kg were also associated with maternal toxicity ( mortality and reduced body weight gain ) .
In a similar study in rats , doses of 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day resulted in maternal toxicity ( enlarged spleen , reduced body weight , and reduced food intake ) but no fetotoxicity at the high dose ( equivalent to the clinical exposure based on body surface area comparisons ) .
There was no evidence of malformations in either species .
In a pre - and postnatal development study in rats , tafenoquine administered throughout pregnancy and lactation produced maternal toxicity and a reversible decrease in offspring body weight gain and decrease in motor activity at 18 mg / kg / day , which is equivalent to about 0 . 6 times the clinical dose based on body surface area comparisons .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary A breastfed infant with G6PD deficiency is at risk for hemolytic anemia from exposure to KRINTAFEL .
Infant G6PD status should be checked before breastfeeding begins .
KRINTAFEL is contraindicated in breastfeeding women when the infant is found to be G6PD deficient or the G6PD status of the infant is unknown [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Clinical Considerations ] .
There is no information regarding the presence of KRINTAFEL in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
In a breastfed infant with normal G6PD , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for KRINTAFEL and any potential effects on the breastfed infant from KRINTAFEL or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Check the infant ’ s G6PD status before maternal breastfeeding commences .
If an infant is G6PD deficient , exposure to KRINTAFEL during breastfeeding may result in hemolytic anemia in the infant ; therefore , advise the woman with an infant who has G6PD deficiency or whose G6PD status is unknown not to breastfeed for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with KRINTAFEL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception KRINTAFEL may cause hemolytic anemia in a G6PD - deficient fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential that treatment with KRINTAFEL during pregnancy is not recommended and to avoid pregnancy or use effective contraception for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of KRINTAFEL have been established in pediatric patients aged 16 years and older .
Use of KRINTAFEL in these pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of KRINTAFEL [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of KRINTAFEL in pediatric patients younger than 16 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of KRINTAFEL did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of KRINTAFEL have not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
If KRINTAFEL is administered to such patients , monitoring for adverse reactions associated with KRINTAFEL is needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of KRINTAFEL have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
If KRINTAFEL is administered to such patients , monitoring for adverse reactions associated with KRINTAFEL is needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Hemoglobin decline and methemoglobinemia may be encountered in an overdose with KRINTAFEL .
Treatment of overdosage consists of institution of appropriate symptomatic and / or supportive therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION KRINTAFEL contains tafenoquine succinate , an antimalarial agent for oral administration .
The chemical name of tafenoquine succinate is ( ± ) 8 - [ ( 4 - amino - 1 - methylbutyl ) amino ] - 2 , 6 - dimethoxy - 4 ‑ methyl - 5 - [ 3 - ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] quinoline succinate .
The molecular formula of tafenoquine succinate is C24H28F3N3O3 • C4H6O4 , and its molecular mass is 581 . 6 as the succinate salt ( 463 . 5 as free base ) .
The structural formula is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each KRINTAFEL tablet contains 150 mg of tafenoquine ( equivalent to 188 . 2 mg tafenoquine succinate ) .
Inactive ingredients include magnesium stearate , mannitol , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The tablet film - coating inactive ingredients include hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , polyethylene glycol , red iron oxide , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tafenoquine is an 8 - aminoquinoline antimalarial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of tafenoquine on the QTc interval was evaluated in a Phase 1 randomized , single - blind , placebo - and positive - controlled , parallel - group thorough QTc study in 260 healthy adult subjects .
At a cumulative dose of 1 , 200 mg ( 400 mg / day for 3 days ; 4 times the maximum recommended dose ) , tafenoquine did not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
Exposure - Response Relationships A saturable relationship between tafenoquine exposure ( AUC ) and clinical response ( recurrence - free rate at 6 months ) was identified .
Tafenoquine exposures achieved with doses of 300 mg and higher are on the plateau of the exposure - response curve .
Use of KRINTAFEL at doses or regimens other than a 300 - mg single dose is not approved by the FDA .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Maximum plasma concentrations were generally observed 12 to 15 hours following oral administration .
Food Effect : Plasma tafenoquine AUC increased by 41 % and Cmax increased by 31 % when administered as an investigational capsule formulation with a high - calorie , high - fat meal ( approximately 1 , 000 calories with 15 % protein , 25 % carbohydrate , and 60 % fat ) compared with the fasted state .
Distribution Protein binding of tafenoquine is > 99 . 5 % .
The apparent oral volume of distribution is ~ 1 , 600 L . Following single - and multiple - oral - dose administration , tafenoquine whole blood concentrations were on average 67 % higher than corresponding plasma values .
Elimination The apparent oral clearance of tafenoquine is approximately 3 L / h .
The average terminal half - life is approximately 15 days .
Metabolism : Tafenoquine undergoes slow metabolism .
Unchanged tafenoquine represented the only notable drug - related component in human plasma after a single oral dose of tafenoquine .
Excretion : The full excretion profile of tafenoquine in humans is unknown .
Over a 6 - day collection period , renal elimination of unchanged tafenoquine was low .
Specific Populations Pharmacokinetics of tafenoquine were not significantly impacted by age , sex , ethnicity , and body weight .
The effect of renal or hepatic impairment on tafenoquine pharmacokinetics is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies : No clinically significant effects on tafenoquine pharmacokinetics were observed following coadministration with chloroquine , dihydroartemisinin - piperaquine , or artemether - lumefantrine in healthy subjects .
No clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of dihydroartemisinin , piperaquine , artemether , lumefantrine , or substrates of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes ( CYP ) 1A2 ( caffeine ) , CYP2D6 ( desipramine ) , CYP2C8 ( chloroquine ) , CYP2C9 ( flurbiprofen ) , or CYP3A4 ( midazolam , chloroquine ) were observed following coadministration of tafenoquine in healthy subjects .
In Vitro Studies Where Drug Interaction Potential Was Not Further Evaluated Clinically : Tafenoquine inhibited metformin transport via human OCT2 , MATE - 1 , and MATE2 - K transporters .
Clinical drug interaction studies with tafenoquine and OCT2 and MATE substrates have not been conducted [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The effect of tafenoquine on substrates of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , and organic anion transporting polypeptides 1B1 / 1B3 ( OATP1B1 / OATP1B3 ) is unknown .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Tafenoquine , an 8 - aminoquinoline antimalarial , is active against the liver stages including the hypnozoite ( dormant stage ) of P . vivax .
In addition to its effect on the parasite , tafenoquine causes red blood cell shrinkage in vitro .
The molecular target of tafenoquine is not known .
Antimicrobial Activity Tafenoquine is active against pre - erythrocytic ( liver ) and erythrocytic ( asexual ) forms as well as gametocytes of P . vivax .
The activity of tafenoquine against the pre - erythrocytic liver stages of the parasite prevents the development of the erythrocytic forms of the parasite , which are responsible for relapses in P . vivax malaria [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Resistance A potential for development of resistance of Plasmodium species to tafenoquine was not evaluated .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Two - year oral carcinogenicity studies were conducted in rats and mice .
Renal cell adenomas and carcinomas were increased in male rats at doses of 1 mg / kg / day and above ( 3 times the clinical exposure based on AUC comparisons ) .
Tafenoquine was not carcinogenic in mice .
Given the single - dose administration of KRINTAFEL , these findings may not represent a carcinogenicity risk to humans .
Mutagenesis Tafenoquine did not cause mutations or chromosomal damage in 2 definitive in vitro tests ( bacterial mutation assay and mouse lymphoma L5178Y cell assay ) or in an in vivo oral rat micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility In a rat fertility study , tafenoquine was given orally at 1 . 5 , 5 , and 15 mg / kg / day ( up to about 0 . 5 times the human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) to males for at least 67 days , including 29 days prior to mating , and to females from 15 days prior to mating through early pregnancy .
Tafenoquine resulted in reduced number of viable fetuses , implantation sites , and corpora lutea at 15 mg / kg in the presence of maternal toxicity ( mortality , piloerection , rough coat , and reduced body weight ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Trial 1 ( NCT01376167 ) was a double - blind , controlled clinical trial of 522 adults positive for P . vivax across 3 regions ( Asia , Africa , and Latin America ) .
All patients received chloroquine phosphate ( 600 - mg free base on Days 1 and 2 with 300 - mg free base on Day 3 ) to treat the acute infection in addition to either a one - time dose of KRINTAFEL ( two 150 - mg tablets ) on Day 1 or Day 2 ( n = 260 ) , an active control ( n = 129 ) , or placebo ( n = 133 ) in a 2 : 1 : 1 fashion .
Patients included in the trial had a mean age of 35 ( range : 16 to 79 years ) , were 75 % male and from the following regions : 70 % Latin America ( Brazil and Peru ) , 19 % SE Asia ( Thailand , Cambodia , and the Philippines ) , and 11 % Africa ( Ethiopia ) .
Patients were considered recurrence - free at 6 months if they demonstrated initial parasite clearance , took no antimalarial medications , and were confirmed parasite - free at the 6 - month final assessment ( i . e . , absence of relapse or new infection ) .
Due to the risk of hemolytic anemia , patients were excluded from the trial if they had a G6PD enzyme activity level < 70 % of the site median value for G6PD normals ( 8 . 2 IU / gHb ) .
In this trial , the minimum G6PD enzyme level of any subject was 5 . 4 IU / gHb .
Patients with severe malaria were excluded from the trial .
The recurrence - free efficacy rates at 6 months among the groups receiving KRINTAFEL and placebo are presented in Table 2 .
The risk of recurrence for KRINTAFEL plus chloroquine was reduced by 76 % compared with placebo plus chloroquine .
Table 2 .
Recurrence - Free Efficacy Rates of KRINTAFEL in Patients with P . vivax at 6 Months – Trial 1 aa All randomized patients were treated and had a positive parasite smear for P . vivax at baseline .
b Odds ratio of the risk of recurrence of KRINTAFEL plus chloroquine versus placebo plus chloroquine using logistic regression model with treatment and region as covariates .
Subjects who did not demonstrate initial clearance , took a concomitant medication with antimalarial activity , or who had a missing Day 180 assessment were considered ‘ missing / indeterminate ’ and were counted as recurrences in the analysis .
KRINTAFEL / Placebo / Chloroquine Chloroquine ( n = 260 ) ( n = 133 ) Recurrence - free efficacy 155 ( 60 % ) 35 ( 26 % ) Recurrence 85 ( 33 % ) 88 ( 66 % ) Missing / indeterminate outcome 20 ( 8 % ) 10 ( 8 % ) ORb ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 24 ( 0 . 15 , 0 . 38 ) P value < 0 . 001 In Trial 2 ( NCT01376167 ) , a dose - ranging trial with a study design similar to Trial 1 , 57 and 54 subjects were randomized to KRINTAFEL 300 - mg single dose plus chloroquine ( same dose as in Trial 1 ) and placebo plus chloroquine groups , respectively .
KRINTAFEL plus chloroquine demonstrated a statistically significantly higher rate of recurrence - free efficacy at 6 months compared with the placebo plus chloroquine control group ( 84 % versus 39 % , with a difference of 45 % and 95 % CI [ 29 % , 61 % ] ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied KRINTAFEL tablets contain 150 mg of tafenoquine ( equivalent to 188 . 2 mg tafenoquine succinate ) and are pink , film ‑ coated , capsule - shaped , and debossed with ‘ GS J11 ’ on one side .
KRINTAFEL is supplied as follows : • • Unit Dose Pack of 2 tablets in a bottle with child - resistant closure ( NDC 0173 - 0889 - 39 ) .
Bottles contain a desiccant .
Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Temperature excursions are permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store in the original package to protect from moisture .
Keep the bottle tightly closed and do not remove the desiccant .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
G6PD Testing and Hemolytic Anemia Inform patients of the need for testing for G6PD deficiency before starting KRINTAFEL .
Advise patients of the symptoms of hemolytic anemia and instruct them to seek medical advice promptly if such symptoms occur .
Patients should contact their healthcare provider if they develop dark lips or urine as these may be signs of hemolysis or methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions Advise patients to take KRINTAFEL with food to increase absorption [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to swallow the tablet whole and not to break , crush , or chew it .
Potential Harm to the Fetus Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk of KRINTAFEL to a fetus and to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid pregnancy or use effective contraception for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women with a G6PD - deficient infant , or if they do not know the G6PD status of their infant , not to breastfeed for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Methemoglobinemia Inform patients that methemoglobinemia has occurred with KRINTAFEL .
Advise patients of the symptoms of methemoglobinemia and instruct them to seek medical advice promptly if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Symptoms Advise patients with a history of psychiatric illness regarding the potential for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms with KRINTAFEL and instruct them to seek medical advice promptly if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with KRINTAFEL .
Advise patients of the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and instruct them to seek medical advice promptly if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2021 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
KFL : 3 PI • _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ PHARMACIST — DETACH HERE AND GIVE PATIENT INFORMATION TO PATIENT • _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ PATIENT INFORMATION KRINTAFEL ( KRIN - TAH - FELL ) ( tafenoquine ) tablets , for oral use What is KRINTAFEL ?
• • KRINTAFEL is a prescription medicine used to treat malaria caused by a parasite called Plasmodium vivax in patients aged 16 years and older who are also receiving chloroquine to treat acute Plasmodium vivax malaria .
• • Malaria is a serious disease of the blood that is spread by infected mosquitos .
KRINTAFEL does not work for all types of malaria .
• • It is not known if KRINTAFEL is safe and effective in children younger than 16 years .
Do not use KRINTAFEL if you : • • have a blood problem called glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency ( sometimes known as favism ) or you have not been tested for G6PD deficiency .
KRINTAFEL can cause a breakdown of red blood cells ( hemolysis ) in people with G6PD deficiency .
Your healthcare provider will test you for G6PD deficiency before you start taking KRINTAFEL .
• • are breastfeeding a child known to have G6PD deficiency or breastfeeding a child that has not been tested for G6PD deficiency .
• • are allergic to tafenoquine or any of the ingredients in KRINTAFEL or if you have had an allergic reaction to similar medicines containing 8 - aminoquinolines .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in KRINTAFEL .
Before taking KRINTAFEL , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have or have had mental health problems .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
KRINTAFEL can harm an unborn baby who has G6PD deficiency .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if KRINTAFEL passes into breast milk .
• • See “ Do not use KRINTAFEL if you : ” • • Your healthcare provider should check your child for G6PD deficiency before you start breastfeeding .
• • If you know your child has G6PD deficiency , do not breastfeed while taking KRINTAFEL and for 3 months after your last dose of KRINTAFEL .
• • Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
KRINTAFEL and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
How should I take KRINTAFEL ?
• • Your healthcare provider will test you for G6PD deficiency before you start taking KRINTAFEL .
• • KRINTAFEL is given as 2 tablets that you take together as a single dose .
• • You will take KRINTAFEL on the first or second day of your treatment with chloroquine .
• • Take KRINTAFEL with food to make sure the right amount of medicine is absorbed into your body .
• • Swallow KRINTAFEL tablets whole .
Do not break , crush , or chew the tablets .
• • If you vomit within 1 hour of taking KRINTAFEL , call your healthcare provider as you may need to take a second dose of KRINTAFEL .
What are the possible side effects of KRINTAFEL ?
KRINTAFEL can cause serious side effects , including : • • Breakdown of red blood cells ( hemolytic anemia ) .
Contact your healthcare provider if you develop signs of hemolytic anemia , which include darkening of the lips or urine , dizziness , confusion , feeling tired , light - headedness , or shortness of breath .
• • Hemolytic anemia in an unborn baby who has G6PD deficiency .
• • Females who are able to become pregnant should avoid pregnancy or use effective birth control ( contraception ) for 3 months after the dose of KRINTAFEL .
Talk with your healthcare provider about birth control methods that might be right for you .
• • Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start taking KRINTAFEL .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you might be pregnant during treatment with KRINTAFEL .
• • Decrease of oxygen in your blood caused by a certain type of abnormal red blood cell ( methemoglobinemia ) .
Get medical help right away if you have darkening of the urine , nail beds , lips , or the inside of your mouth .
• • Allergic ( hypersensitivity ) reactions .
Serious allergic reactions can happen after you take KRINTAFEL .
Allergic reactions can sometimes happen hours or days after you take a dose of KRINTAFEL .
Tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you have any signs or symptoms of an allergic reaction including : • • swelling of your face , lips , tongue , or throat • • itching • • trouble breathing • • fainting , dizziness , feeling lightheaded • • rash • • hives Other side effects of KRINTAFEL include mental health ( psychiatric ) symptoms .
KRINTAFEL can cause new psychiatric symptoms including anxiety , abnormal dreams , and trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) , or make the symptoms you already have worse .
Contact your healthcare provider right away if you have new or worsening psychiatric symptoms .
The most common side effects of KRINTAFEL include : dizziness , nausea , vomiting , headache , and changes in laboratory tests for hemoglobin .
These are not all the possible side effects of KRINTAFEL .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Keep KRINTAFEL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of KRINTAFEL .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use KRINTAFEL for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give KRINTAFEL to other people even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about KRINTAFEL that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in KRINTAFEL ?
Active Ingredient : tafenoquine succinate .
Inactive Ingredients : magnesium stearate , mannitol , and microcrystalline cellulose .
GlaxoSmithKline , Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
KFL : 2 PIL For more information , call GlaxoSmithKline ( GSK ) at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : November 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0173 - 0889 - 39 Krintafel ( tafenoquine ) tablets 150 mg Rx Only Patients must be tested for glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency before taking this medicine .
2 tablets to be taken as a single one - time dose 2 Tablets Each tablet contains 150 mg of tafenoquine ( equivalent to 188 . 2 mg tafenoquine succinate ) .
See prescribing information for dosage information .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store in original package .
Protect from moisture .
Do not remove desiccant .
Do not break or crush the tablets .
Do not accept if membrane seal under cap is missing or broken .
Manufactured by : GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Made in India 10000000148541 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
