1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omidria ® is added to an ocular irrigating solution used during cataract surgery or intraocular lens replacement and is indicated for maintaining pupil size by preventing intraoperative miosis and reducing postoperative ocular pain .
OMIDRIA is an alpha 1 - adrenergic receptor agonist and nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor indicated for : • Maintaining pupil size by preventing intraoperative miosis ( 1 ) • Reducing postoperative pain ( 1 ) OMIDRIA is added to an ocular irrigating solution used during cataract surgery or intraocular lens replacement .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Omidria must be diluted prior to intraocular use .
For administration to patients undergoing cataract surgery or intraocular lens replacement , 4 mL of Omidria is diluted in 500 mL of ocular irrigating solution .
Irrigation solution is to be used as needed for the surgical procedure for a single patient .
The storage period for the diluted product is not more than 4 hours at room temperature or 24 hours under refrigerated conditions .
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or if it contains particulate matter .
• Each vial of OMIDRIA must be diluted prior to use for administration to a single patient undergoing cataract surgery or intraocular lens replacement .
• Dilute 4 mL of OMIDRIA in 500 mL of ocular irrigating solution .
Irrigation solution is to be used as needed for the surgical procedure .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Omidria is an intraocular solution containing 10 . 16 mg / mL ( 1 % w / v ) of phenylephrine and 2 . 88 mg / mL ( 0 . 3 % w / v ) of ketorolac for use in a single patient .
Intraocular solution containing phenylephrine 10 . 16 mg / mL ( 1 % ) and ketorolac 2 . 88 mg / mL ( 0 . 3 % ) for use in a single patient .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Omidria is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Systemic exposure to phenylephrine may cause elevations in blood pressure .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Elevated Blood Pressure Systemic exposure to phenylephrine can cause elevations in blood pressure .
5 . 2 Cross - Sensitivity or Hypersensitivity There is the potential for cross - sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid , phenylacetic acid derivatives , and other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
There have been reports of bronchospasm or exacerbation of asthma associated with the use of ketorolac in patients who either have a known hypersensitivity to aspirin / NSAIDs or a past medical history of asthma .
Therefore , use Omidria with caution in individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reported adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) are eye irritation , posterior capsule opacification , increased intraocular pressure , and anterior chamber inflammation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Omeros Corporation at 1 - 844 - OMEROS1 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Table 1 shows frequently reported ocular adverse reactions with an incidence of ≥ 2 % of adult patients as seen in the combined clinical trial results from three randomized , placebo - controlled studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Table 1 : Ocular Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 2 % of Adult Patients MedDRA Preferred Term Placebo ( N = 462 ) Omidria ( N = 459 ) n ( % ) n ( % ) Ocular Events Anterior Chamber Inflammation 102 ( 22 % ) 111 ( 24 % ) Intraocular Pressure Increased 15 ( 3 % ) 20 ( 4 % ) Posterior Capsule Opacification 16 ( 4 % ) 18 ( 4 % ) Eye Irritation 6 ( 1 % ) 9 ( 2 % ) Foreign Body Sensation in Eyes 11 ( 2 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) In a safety study that enrolled 72 pediatric patients up to 3 years old , no overall difference in safety was observed between pediatric and adult patients .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Omidria use in pregnant women or animals to inform any drug - associated risks .
Oral administration of ketorolac to rats during late gestation produced dystocia and increased pup mortality at a dose 740 - times the plasma exposure at the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) .
Since human systemic exposure to Omidria following a lens replacement procedure is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , the applicability of animal findings to the risk of Omidria in humans during pregnancy is unclear .
Omidria should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus has occurred with third trimester use of oral and injectable NSAIDs .
Ketorolac plasma concentrations are detectable following ocular Omidria administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The use of Omidria during late pregnancy should be avoided .
Data Animal Data No well - controlled animal reproduction studies have been conducted with Omidria or phenylephrine .
Ketorolac , administered during organogenesis , did not cause embryofetal abnormalities or mortalities in rabbits or rats at oral doses of 3 . 6 mg / kg / day and 10 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses produced systemic exposure that is 1150 times and 4960 times the plasma exposure ( based on C max ) at the RHOD , respectively .
When administered to rats during late gestation ( after Day 17 of gestation ) at oral doses up to 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 740 times the plasma exposure at the RHOD ) , ketorolac produced dystocia and increased pup mortality .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of Omidria in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Howerver , systemic exposure to Omidria , following a lens replacement procedure is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Omidria and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Omidria .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Omidria have been established in the pediatric population from neonates to adolescents ( birth to younger than 17 years ) .
Use of Omidria in this population is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of Omidria in adults with additional data from a single active - controlled safety study in pediatric patients up to 3 years old [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
No overall differences in safety were observed between pediatric and adult patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Systemic overdosage of phenylephrine may cause a rise in blood pressure .
It may also cause headache , anxiety , nausea , vomiting , and ventricular arrhythmias .
Supportive care is recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Omidria is a sterile aqueous solution , containing the α 1 - adrenergic receptor agonist phenylephrine HCl and the nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory ketorolac tromethamine , for addition to ocular irrigating solution .
The descriptions and structural formulae are : Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Drug Substance : Common Name : phenylephrine hydrochloride Chemical Name : ( - ) - m - Hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride Molecular Formula : C 9 H 13 NO 2 · HCl Molecular Weight : 203 . 67 g / mole Figure 1 : Chemical Structure for Phenylephrine HCl [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ketorolac Tromethamine Drug Substance : Common Name : ketorolac tromethamine Chemical Name : ( ± ) - 5 - Benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 H - pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid : 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - propanediol ( 1 : 1 ) Molecular Formula : C 15 H 13 NO 3 · C 4 H 11 NO 3 Molecular Weight : 376 . 40 g / mole Figure 2 : Chemical Structure for Ketorolac Tromethamine [ MULTIMEDIA ] Omidria is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow , sterile solution concentrate with a pH of approximately 6 . 3 .
Each vial of Omidria contains : Actives : phenylephrine hydrochloride 12 . 4 mg / mL equivalent to 10 . 16 mg / mL of phenylephrine and ketorolac tromethamine 4 . 24 mg / mL equivalent to 2 . 88 mg / mL of ketorolac .
Inactives : citric acid monohydrate ; sodium citrate dihydrate ; water for injection ; may include sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The two active pharmaceutical ingredients ( API ) in Omidria , phenylephrine and ketorolac , act to maintain pupil size by preventing intraoperative miosis , and reducing postoperative pain .
Phenylephrine is an α 1 - adrenergic receptor agonist and , in the eye , acts as a mydriatic agent by contracting the radial muscle of the iris .
Ketorolac is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory that inhibits both cyclooxygenase enzymes ( COX - 1 and COX - 2 ) , resulting in a decrease in tissue concentrations of prostaglandins to reduce pain due to surgical trauma .
Ketorolac , by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis secondary to ocular surgical insult or direct mechanical stimulation of the iris , also prevents surgically induced miosis .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a pharmacokinetic study evaluating Omidria , systemic exposure to both phenylephrine and ketorolac was low or undetectable .
A single - dose of Omidria as part of the irrigation solution was administered in 14 patients during lens replacement surgery .
The volume of irrigation solution used during surgery ranged between 150 mL to 300 mL ( median 212 . 5 mL ) .
Detectable phenylephrine plasma concentrations were observed in one of 14 patients ( range 1 . 2 to 1 . 4 ng / mL ) during the first 2 hours after the initiation of Omidria administration .
The observed phenylephrine plasma concentrations could not be distinguished from the preoperative administration of phenylephrine 2 . 5 % ophthalmic solution prior to exposure to Omidria .
Ketorolac plasma concentrations were detected in 10 of 14 patients ( range 1 . 0 to 4 . 2 ng / mL ) during the first 8 hours after the initiation of Omidria administration .
The maximum ketorolac concentration was 15 ng / mL at 24 hours after the initiation of Omidria administration , which may have been due to application of postoperative ketorolac ophthalmic solution .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Studies in Adults The efficacy and safety of Omidria were evaluated in two Phase 3 , randomized , multicenter , double - masked , placebo - controlled clinical trials in 808 adult patients undergoing cataract surgery or intraocular lens replacement .
Patients were randomized to either Omidria or placebo .
Patients were treated with preoperative topical mydriatic and anesthetic agents .
Pupil diameter was measured throughout the surgical procedure .
Postoperative pain was evaluated by self - administered 0 - 100 mm visual analog scales ( VAS ) .
Mydriasis was maintained in the Omidria - treated groups while the placebo - treated groups experienced progressive constriction .
Figure 3 : Intraoperative Pupil Diameter ( mm ) Change - from - Baseline [ MULTIMEDIA ] At the end of cortical clean - up , 23 % of placebo - treated patients and 4 % of Omidria - treated patients had a pupil diameter less than 6 mm ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Pain during the initial 10 - 12 hours postoperatively was statistically significantly less in the Omidria - treated groups than in the placebo - treated groups .
Figure 4 : Postoperative Mean Visual Analog Scale ( VAS ) Scores for Pain [ MULTIMEDIA ] During the 10 - 12 hours postoperatively , 26 % of Omidria - treated patients reported no pain ( VAS = 0 at all timepoints ) while 17 % of placebo - treated patients reported no pain ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study in Pediatric Patients The safety of Omidria was evaluated in a single , randomized , multicenter , double - masked , active - controlled clinical study in 72 pediatric patients up to 3 years old undergoing cataract surgery with or without intraocular lens replacement .
Patients were randomized to either Omidria or phenylephrine .
Patients were treated with preoperative topical mydriatic and anesthetic agents .
As in the adult studies , mydriasis was maintained in the Omidria - treated group .
No overall differences in safety were observed between pediatric and adult patients .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Omidria ( phenylephrine and ketorolac intraocular solution ) 1 % / 0 . 3 % is supplied in a clear , 5 - mL glass , single - patient - use vial containing 4 mL of sterile solution , for addition to ocular irrigating solution .
Omidria is supplied in a multi - pack containing : 4 vials : NDC 62225 - 600 - 04 or 10 vials : NDC 62225 - 600 - 10 Storage : Store at 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that they may experience sensitivity to light .
Omeros Corporation 201 Elliott Avenue West Seattle , WA 98119 © Omeros 2013 - 2017 US Patents 8 , 173 , 707 , 8 , 586 , 633 , 9 , 066 , 856 , 9 , 278 , 101 , 9 , 399 , 040 , 9 , 486 , 406 , and 9 , 855 , 246 ; additional patents pending .
OMIDRIA ® and the OMIDRIA ® Logo are registered trademarks of Omeros Corporation .
PI100016 . 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62225 - 600 - 04 OMIDRIA ® ( phenylephrine and ketorolac intraocular solution ) 1 % / 0 . 3 % For Intraocular use .
Must Be Diluted .
Single - Patient vial Sterile 4 mL Quantity : 4 Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
