Active ingredient Zinc oxide 20 % w / w Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • reapply : • after 80 mins .
of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf extract , behenyl behenate , butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , caprylic / capric triglyceride , cocos nucifera ( coconut ) oil , euphorbia cerifera ( candelilla ) wax , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed wax , polyhydroxystearic acid , ricinus communis ( castor ) seed oil , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , squalane , theobroma cacao ( cocoa ) seed butter , tocopherol Other information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions ?
1 . 800 . 290 . 0577 Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline industries , LP Three Lakes Drive , Northfield , IL 60093 USA Made in USA of Foreign and Domestic Materials www . medline . com 1 - 800 - MEDLINE REF : MSCSUNSTIK05O V1RH21OLB Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
