description Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % is a white to off - white , water washable cream for intravaginal administration containing 0 . 4 % of the antifungal agent terconazole , cis - 1 - [ p - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - Dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] - 4 - isopropylpiperazine , compounded in a cream base consisting of butylated hydroxyanisole , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , stearyl alcohol , and purified water .
The structural formula of terconazole is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terconazole , a triazole derivative , is a white to almost white powder with a molecular weight of 532 . 47 .
It is insoluble in water ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; and soluble in butanol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] clinical pharmacology Following intravaginal administration of terconazole in humans , absorption ranged from 5 – 8 % in three hysterectomized subjects and 12 – 16 % in two non - hysterectomized subjects with tubal ligations .
Following daily intravaginal administration of 0 . 4 % terconazole 40 mg ( 0 . 4 % cream x 5 g ) for seven days to normal humans , plasma concentrations were low and gradually rose to a daily peak ( mean of 5 . 9 ng / mL or 0 . 006 mcg / mL ) at 6 . 6 hours .
Results from similar studies in patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis indicate that the slow rate of absorption , the lack of accumulation , and the mean peak plasma concentration of terconazole was not different from that observed in healthy women .
The absorption characteristics of terconazole 0 . 4 % in pregnant or non - pregnant patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were also similar to those found in normal volunteers .
Following oral ( 30 mg ) administration of 14 C - labelled terconazole , the harmonic half - life of elimination from the blood for the parent terconazole was 6 . 9 hours ( range 4 . 0 – 11 . 3 ) .
Terconazole is extensively metabolized ; the plasma AUC for terconazole compared to the AUC for total radioactivity was 0 . 6 % .
Total radioactivity was eliminated from the blood with a harmonic half - life of 52 . 2 hours ( range 44 – 60 ) .
Excretion of radioactivity was both by renal ( 32 – 56 % ) and fecal ( 47 – 52 % ) routes .
In vitro , terconazole is highly protein bound ( 94 . 9 % ) and the degree of binding is independent of drug concentration .
Photosensitivity reactions were observed in some normal volunteers following repeated dermal application of terconazole 2 . 0 % and 0 . 4 % creams under conditions of filtered artificial ultraviolet light .
Photosensitivity reactions have not been observed in U . S . and foreign clinical trials in patients who were treated with terconazole suppositories or vaginal cream ( 0 . 4 % and 0 . 4 % ) .
Microbiology : Terconazole exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against Candida albicans .
Antifungal activity has also been demonstrated against other fungi .
The MIC values of terconazole against most Lactobacillus spp .
typically found in the human vagina were ≥ 128 mcg / mL ; therefore these beneficial bacteria were not affected by drug treatment .
The exact pharmacologic mode of action of terconazole is uncertain ; however , it may exert its antifungal activity by the disruption of normal fungal cell membrane permeability .
No resistance to terconazole has developed during successive passages of C . albicans .
indications and usage Terconazole Vaginal Cream is indicated for the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( moniliasis ) .
As this product is effective only for vulvovaginitis caused by the genus Candida , the diagnosis should be confirmed by KOH smears and / or cultures .
contraindications Patients known to be hypersensitive to terconazole or to any of the components of the cream .
warnings None .
precautions General : Discontinue use and do not retreat with terconazole if sensitization , irritation , fever , chills or flu - like symptoms are reported during use .
Laboratory Tests : If there is lack of response to terconazole , appropriate microbiologic studies ( standard KOH smear and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens .
Drug Interactions : Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % : The therapeutic effect of this product is not affected by oral contraceptive usage .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % : The levels of estradiol ( E2 ) and progesterone did not differ significantly when 0 . 4 % terconazole vaginal cream was administered to healthy female volunteers established on a low dose oral contraceptive .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenesis : Studies to determine the carcinogenic potential of terconazole have not been performed .
Mutagenicity : Terconazole was not mutagenic when tested in vitro for induction of microbial point mutations ( Ames test ) , or for inducing cellular transformation , or in vivo for chromosome breaks ( micronucleus test ) or dominant lethal mutations in mouse germ cells .
Impairment of Fertility : No impairment of fertility occurred when female rats were administered terconazole orally up to 40 mg / kg / day for a three month period .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity when terconazole was administered orally up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 50 x the recommended intravaginal human dose of the 0 . 4 % vaginal cream formulation , and 100 x the intravaginal human dose of the 0 . 4 % vaginal cream formulation ) in rats , or 20 mg / kg / day in rabbits , or subcutaneously up to 20 mg / kg / day in rats .
Dosages at or below 10 mg / kg / day produced no embryotoxicity ; however , there was a delay in fetal ossification at 10 mg / kg / day in rats .
There was some evidence of embryotoxicity in rabbits and rats at 20 - 40 mg / kg .
In rats , this was reflected as a decrease in litter size and number of viable young and reduced fetal weight .
There was also delay in ossification and an increased incidence of skeletal variants .
The no - effect dose of 10 mg / kg / day resulted in a mean peak plasma level of terconazole in pregnant rats of 0 . 176 mcg / mL which exceeds by 44 times the mean peak plasma level ( 0 . 004 mcg / mL ) seen in normal subjects after intravaginal administration of terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream , and by 30 times the mean peak plasma level ( 0 . 006 mcg / mL ) seen in normal subjects after intravaginal administration of terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream .
This safety assessment does not account for possible exposure of the fetus through direct transfer to terconazole from the irritated vagina by diffusion across amniotic membranes .
Since terconazole is absorbed from the human vagina , it should not be used in the first trimester of pregnancy unless the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Animal studies have shown that rat offspring exposed via the milk of treated ( 40 mg / kg / orally ) dams showed decreased survival during the first few post - partum days , but overall pup weight and weight gain were comparable to or greater than controls throughout lactation .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for adverse reaction in nursing infants from terconazole , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and efficacy in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of terconazole did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
adverse reactions Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % : During controlled clinical studies conducted in the United States , 521 patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were treated with terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream .
Based on comparative analyses with placebo , the adverse experiences considered most likely related to terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream were headache ( 26 % vs . 17 % with placebo ) and body pain ( 2 . 1 % vs . 0 % with placebo ) .
Vulvovaginal burning ( 5 . 2 % ) , itching ( 2 . 3 % ) or irritation ( 3 . 1 % ) occurred less frequently with terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream than with the vehicle placebo .
Fever ( 1 . 7 % vs . 0 . 5 % with placebo ) and chills ( 0 . 4 % vs . 0 . 0 % with placebo ) have also been reported .
The therapy - related dropout rate was 1 . 9 % .
The adverse drug experience on terconazole most frequently causing discontinuation was vulvovaginal itching ( 0 . 6 % ) , which was lower than the incidence for placebo ( 0 . 9 % ) .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % : During controlled clinical studies conducted in the United States , patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were treated with terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream for three days .
Based on comparative analyses with placebo and a standard agent , the adverse experiences considered most likely related to terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream were headache ( 21 % vs . 16 % with placebo ) and dysmenorrhea ( 6 % vs . 2 % with placebo ) .
Genital complaints in general , and burning and itching in particular , occurred less frequently in the terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream 3 day regimen ( 5 % vs . 6 % – 9 % with placebo ) .
Other adverse experiences reported with terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream were abdominal pain ( 3 . 4 % vs . 1 % with placebo ) and fever ( 1 % vs . 0 . 3 % with placebo ) .
The therapy - related dropout rate was 2 . 0 % for the terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream .
The adverse drug experience most frequently causing discontinuation of therapy was vulvovaginal itching , 0 . 7 % with the terconazole 0 . 4 % vaginal cream group and 0 . 3 % with the placebo group .
overdosage Overdose of terconazole in humans has not been reported to date .
In the rat , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 1741 and 849 mg / kg for the male and female , respectively .
The oral LD 50 values for the male and female dog were ≅ 1280 and ≥ 640 mg / kg , respectively .
dosage and administration Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % : One full applicator ( 5 g ) of Terconazole Vaginal Cream ( 20 mg terconazole ) should be administered intravaginally once daily at bedtime for seven consecutive days .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % : One full applicator ( 5 g ) of Terconazole Vaginal Cream ( 40 mg terconazole ) should be administered intravaginally once daily at bedtime for three consecutive days .
Before prescribing another course of therapy , the diagnosis should be reconfirmed by smears and / or cultures and other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis ruled out .
The therapeutic effect of these products is not affected by menstruation .
how supplied Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % is available in 45 g ( NDC 0591 - 3196 - 89 ) tubes with a measured - dose applicator .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % is available in 20 g ( NDC 0591 - 3197 - 52 ) tubes with a measured - dose applicator .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Mfd .
for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Mfd .
by : Draxis Specialty Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Kirkland , Quebec , Canada H9H 4J4 or JOLLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Printed in U . S . A . Revised January 2010 TERCONAZOLE Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % 7 – Day Regimen TERCONAZOLE Vaginal Cream 0 . 4 % 3 – Day Regimen PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS Filling the Applicator : 1 .
Remove the cap from the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Use the pointed tip on the top of the cap to puncture the seal on the tube . 3 .
Screw the applicator onto the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Squeeze the tube from the bottom and fill the applicator until the plunger stops . 5 .
Unscrew the applicator from the tube . Using the Applicator : 1 .
Lie on your back with your knees drawn up toward your chest . 2 .
Holding the applicator by the ribbed end of the barrel , insert the filled applicator into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go . 3 .
Slowly press the plunger of the applicator to release the cream into the vagina .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Remove the applicator from the vagina . 5 .
Apply one applicatorful each night for as many days at bedtime , as directed by your doctor . Cleaning the Applicator : After each use , you should thoroughly clean the applicator by following the procedure below : 1 .
Pull the plunger out of the barrel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Wash the pieces with lukewarm , soapy water , and dry them thoroughly . 3 .
Put the applicator back together by gently pushing the plunger into the barrel as far as it will go . NOTE : Store the cream at Controlled Room Temperature 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) .
See end flap for lot number and expiration date .
A WORD ABOUT YEAST INFECTIONS Why Do Yeast Infections Occur ?
Yeast infections are caused by an organism called Candida ( KAN di duh ) .
It may be present in small and harmless amounts in the mouth , digestive tract , and vagina .
Sometimes the natural balance of the vagina becomes upset .
This may lead to rapid growth of Candida , which results in a yeast infection .
Symptoms of a yeast infection include itching , burning , redness , and an abnormal discharge .
Your doctor can make the diagnosis of a yeast infection by evaluating your symptoms and looking at a sample of the discharge under the microscope .
How Can I Prevent Yeast Infections ?
Certain factors may increase your chance of developing a yeast infection .
These factors do n't actually cause the problem , but they may create a situation that allows the yeast to grow rapidly .
• Clothing : Tight jeans , nylon underwear , pantyhose , and wet bathing suits can hold in heat and moisture ( two conditions in which yeast organisms thrive ) .
Looser pants or skirts , 100 % cotton underwear , and stockings may help avoid this problem .
• Diet : Cutting down on sweets , milk products , and artificial sweeteners may reduce the risk of yeast infections .
• Antibiotics : Antibiotics work by eliminating disease - causing organisms .
While they are helpful in curing other problems , antibiotics may lead to an overgrowth of Candida in the vagina .
• Pregnancy : Hormonal changes in the body during pregnancy encourage the growth of yeast .
This is a very common time for an infection to occur .
Until the baby is born , it may be hard to completely eliminate yeast infections .
If you believe you are pregnant , tell your doctor .
• Menstruation : Sometimes monthly changes in hormone levels may lead to yeast infections .
• Diabetes : In addition to heat and moisture , yeast thrives on sugar .
Because diabetics often have sugar in their urine , their vaginas are rich in this substance .
Careful control of diabetes may help prevent yeast infection .
Controlling these factors can help eliminate yeast infections and may prevent them from coming back .
Some Other Helpful Tips : 1 .
For best results , be sure to use the medication as prescribed by your doctor , even if you feel better quickly . 2 .
Avoid sexual intercourse , if your doctor advises you to do so .
3 .
If your partner has any penile itching , redness , or discomfort , he should consult his physician and mention that you are being treated for a yeast infection . 4 .
You can use the medication even if you are having your menstrual period .
However , you should not use tampons because they may absorb the medication .
Instead , use external pads or napkins until you have finished your medication .
You may also wish to wear a sanitary napkin if the vaginal medication leaks . 5 .
Dry the genital area thoroughly after showering , bathing , or swimming .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp exercise clothes as soon as possible .
A dry environment is less likely to encourage the growth of yeast . 6 .
Wipe from front to rear ( away from the vagina ) after a bowel movement . 7 .
Do n't douche unless your doctor specifically tells you to do so .
Douching may disturb the vaginal balance . 8 .
Do n't scratch if you can help it .
Scratching can cause more irritation and spread the infection . 9 .
Discuss with your physician any medication you are already taking .
Certain types of medication can make your vagina more susceptible to infection . 10 .
Eat nutritious meals to promote your general health . Mfd .
for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Mfd .
by : Draxis Specialty Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Kirkland , Quebec , Canada H9H 4J4 or JOLLC Manati , Puerto Rico 00674 Printed in U . S . A . Revised January 2010 Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc .
Nipomo , CA 93444 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL — Terconazole Vaginal Cream 3 - Day Regimen Carton ( Manati ) NDC 0591 - 3196 - 89 Terconazole Vaginal Cream 3 – Day Regimen 0 . 4 % Tube and Applicator For Vaginal Use Only .
Watson .
Rx only Net Wt 0 . 71 oz .
( 20 g ) Quantity by weight not by volume .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
