Active Ingredient Povidone - Iodine , 7 . 5 % ( equivalent to 0 . 75 % available iodine ) Purpose Antiseptic Uses • For preparation of the skin prior to surgery • helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection • significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes • if you are allergic to iodine or any of the other ingredients in the product .
When using this product • prolonged exposure to wet solution may cause irritation or , rarely , severe skin reactions • in pre - operative prepping , avoid “ pooling ” beneath the patient .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if irritation and redness develop • if condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Surgical Hand Scrub : • Clean under nails with a nail pick .
Nails should be maintained with a 1 millimeter free edge .
• Wet hands and forearms • Apply 5 milliliters ( teaspoonful ) or palmful to hands and forearms • Scrub thoroughly for about 5 minutes paying particular attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • Use a sterile scrub brush , if desired • Rinse and repeat scrub Patient Pre - operative Skin Preparation : • Prior to surgery , wet skin with water • Apply scrub to the operative site • scrub thoroughly for about 5 minutes • Rinse using sterile gauze or towel , or remove with 70 percent alcohol • follow with application of Medline Prep Solution and allow to dry Other Information Store at Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Inactive Ingredients Disodium Phosphate , Glycerin , Hydroxy Ethyl Cellulose , Monoethanolamine , Water Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline Industries , LP Three Lakes Drive , Northfield , IL 60093 USA Made in Mexico www . medline . com 1 - 800 - MEDLINE ( 633 - 5463 ) REF : 500762 V1 RK22DEG Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
