( FOR SLOW INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION ) Rx only WARNING : SEROTONIN SYNDROME WITH CONCOMITANT USE OF SEROTONERGIC DRUGS Methylene Blue Injection may cause serious or fatal serotonergic syndrome when used in combination with serotonergic drugs .
Avoid concomitant use of Methylene Blue Injection with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
DESCRIPTION Methylene Blue Injection is a sterile solution of Phenothiazin - 5 - ium , 3 , 7 - bis ( dimethylamino ) - , chloride , trihydrate .
Each mL contains methylene blue , 10 mg in water for injection q . s . pH adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid when necessary .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is : C16H18ClN3S • 3H2O MW = 373 . 90 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methylene blue will produce two opposite actions on hemoglobin .
Low concentrations will convert methemoglobin to hemoglobin .
High concentrations convert the ferrous iron of reduced hemoglobin to ferric iron which results in the formation of methemoglobin .
Methylene blue is metabolized in the body to leukomethylene blue which is excreted primarily in the urine .
Some unchanged drug is also excreted in the urine .
( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Drug - induced methemoglobinemia CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylene blue can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
An association exists between the use of methylene blue in amniocentesis and atresia of the ileum and jejunum , ileal occlusions , and other adverse effects in the neonate .
( 2 , 3 ) Methylene blue is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Intraspinal and subcutaneous injections are contraindicated .
Methylene blue is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Methylene blue should not be given by subcutaneous or intrathecal injection .
Methylene blue is a potent monoamine oxidase inhibitor : Methylene blue has been demonstrated to be a potent monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) and may cause potentially fatal serotonin toxicity ( serotonin syndrome ) when combined with serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SRIs ) .
( 4 ) ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS . )
Serotonin toxicity is characterized by development of neuromuscular hyperactivity ( tremor , clonus , myoclonus , and hyperreflexia , and , in the advanced stage , pyramidal rigidity ) ; autonomic hyperactivity ( diaphoresis , fever , tachycardia , tachypnoea , and mydriasis ) ; and altered mental status ( agitation , excitement , and in the advanced stage , confusion ) .
If methylene blue is judged to be indicated , SRIs must be ceased , prior to treatment / procedure / surgery .
PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions : Methylene blue may interact with any drug that acts as a serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SRI ) including , amongst others , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , norepinephrine - dopamine reuptake inhibitors ( NDRIs ) , triptans and ergot alkaloids ; such combinations may have the consequence of potentially fatal serotonin toxicity ( serotonin syndrome ) .
Methylene blue should not be co - administered with any drug that acts as an SRI .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category X : Epidemiologic evidence exists that methylene blue is a teratogen .
An association exists between the use of methylene blue in amniocentesis and atresia of the ileum and jejunum , ileal occlusions , and other adverse effects in the neonate .
( 2 , 3 ) Methylene blue injection should not be administered to pregnant women during amniocentesis due to the risk of teratogenicity and other newborn adverse effects ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase Deficiency ( G6PD Deficiency ) : Methylene blue should be avoided in patients with G6PD deficiency due to the risk of paradoxical methemoglobinemia and hemolysis .
( 5 , 6 ) Renal Failure : Methylene blue should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Methylene blue must be injected intravenously very slowly over a period of several minutes to prevent local high concentration of the compound from producing additional methemoglobin .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Large intravenous doses of methylene blue produce nausea , abdominal and precordial pain , dizziness , headache , profuse sweating , mental confusion , and the formation of methemoglobin .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mL per kg body weight ( 0 . 045 to 0 . 09 mL per pound body weight ) .
Inject methylene blue intravenously very slowly over a period of several minutes .
Methylene blue must be injected intravenously very slowly over a period of several minutes to prevent local high concentration of the compound from producing additional methemoglobin .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Methylene Blue Injection , 1 % is supplied as follows : NDC 54288 - 147 - 01 10 mL single dose vial per carton .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact BPI Labs LLC at 727 - 471 - 0850 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES • DiSanto AR , Wagner JG .
Pharmacokinetics of highly ionized drugs II : methylene blue – absorption , metabolism , and excretion in man and dog after oral administration .
J Pharm Sci .
1972 ; 61 : 1086 - 1090 .
• Cragan JD .
Teratogen update : methylene blue .
Teratology .
1999 ; 60 : 42 - 48 .
• Kidd SA , Lancaster PA , Anderson JC , Boogert A , Fisher CC , Robertson R , et al .
Fetal death after exposure to methylene blue dye during mid - trimester amniocentesis in twin pregnancy .
Prenat Diagn .
1996 ; 16 : 39 - 47 .
• Ramsay RR , Dunford C , Gillman PK .
Methylene blue and serotonin toxicity : inhibition of monoamine oxidase A ( MAOA ) confirms a theoretical prediction .
Br J Pharmacol .
2007 ; 152 : 946 - 51 .
• Beutler E . G6PD Deficiency .
Blood .
1994 ; 84 : 3613 - 3636 .
• Youngster I , Arcavi L , Schechmaster R , Akayzen Y , Popliski H , Shimonov J , Beig S , Berkovitch M . Medications and glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency : an evidence - based review .
Drug Saf .
2010 ; 33 : 713 - 726 .
Manufactured by : BPI Labs , LLC 12393 Belcher Road S , Suite 450 , Largo , FL 33773 LI38I R - 2111 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
