DESCRIPTION Papaverine Hydrochloride , USP , is the hydrochloride of an alkaloid obtained from opium or prepared synthetically .
It belongs to the benzylisoquinoline group of alkaloids .
It does not contain a phenanthrene group as do morphine and codeine .
Papaverine Hydrochloride , USP , is 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 1 - veratrylisoquinoline hydrochloride and contains , on the dried basis , not less than 98 . 5 % of C 20 H 21 NO 4 • HCl .
The molecular weight is 375 . 85 .
The structural formula is as shown .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Papaverine Hydrochloride occurs as white crystals or white crystalline powder .
One gram dissolves in about 30 mL of water and in 120 mL of alcohol .
It is soluble in chloroform and practically insoluble in ether .
Papaverine Hydrochloride Injection , USP , is a clear , colorless to pale - yellow solution .
Papaverine Hydrochloride , for parenteral administration , is a smooth - muscle relaxant that is available in vials containing 30 mg / mL .
Each vial also contains edetate disodium 0 . 005 % .
pH may be adjusted with sodium citrate and / or citric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most characteristic effect of papaverine is relaxation of the tonus of all smooth muscle , especially when it has been spasmodically contracted .
Papaverine Hydrochloride apparently acts directly on the muscle itself .
This relaxation is noted in the vascular system and bronchial musculature and in the gastrointestinal , biliary and urinary tracts .
The main actions of papaverine are exerted on cardiac and smooth muscle .
Papaverine relaxes various smooth muscles , especially those of larger arteries ; this relaxation may be prominent if spasm exists .
The antispasmodic effect is a direct one and unrelated to muscle innervation , and the muscle still responds to drugs and other stimuli causing contraction .
Papaverine has minimal actions on the central nervous system , although very large doses tend to produce some sedation and sleepiness in some patients .
In certain circumstances , mild respiratory stimulation can be observed , but this is therapeutically inconsequential .
Papaverine stimulates respiration by acting on carotid and aortic body chemoreceptors .
Papaverine relaxes the smooth musculature of the larger blood vessels , including the coronary , cerebral , peripheral , and pulmonary arteries .
This action is particularly evident when such vessels are in spasm , induced reflexly or by drugs , and it provides the basis for the clinical use of papaverine in peripheral or pulmonary arterial embolism .
Experimentally in dogs , the alkaloid has been shown to cause fairly marked and long - lasting coronary vasodilatation and an increase in coronary blood flow .
However , it also appears to have a direct inotropic effect and , when increased mechanical activity coincides with decreased systemic pressure , increases in coronary blood flow may not be sufficient to prevent brief periods of hypoxic myocardial depression .
Papaverine is effective by all routes of administration .
A considerable fraction of the drug localizes in fat deposits and in the liver , with the remainder being distributed throughout the body .
It is metabolized in the liver .
About 90 % of the drug is bound to plasma protein .
Although estimates of its biologic half - life vary widely , reasonably constant plasma levels can be maintained with oral administration at 6 hour intervals .
The drug is excreted in the urine in an inactive form .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Papaverine is recommended in various conditions accompanied by spasm of smooth muscle , such as vascular spasm associated with acute myocardial infarction ( coronary occlusion ) , angina pectoris , peripheral and pulmonary embolism , peripheral vascular disease in which there is a vasospastic element , or certain cerebral angiospastic states , and visceral spasm , as in ureteral , biliary , or gastrointestinal colic .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Intravenous injection of papaverine is contraindicated in the presence of complete atrioventricular heart block .
When conduction is depressed , the drug may produce transient ectopic rhythms of ventricular origin , either premature beats or paroxysmal tachycardia .
Papaverine Hydrochloride is not indicated for the treatment of impotence by intracorporeal injection .
The intracorporeal injection of papaverine hydrochloride has been reported to have resulted in persistent priapism requiring medical and surgical intervention .
PRECAUTIONS General Papaverine Hydrochloride Injection , USP , should not be added to Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , because precipitation would result .
Papaverine Hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with glaucoma .
The medication should be discontinued if hepatic hypersensitivity with gastrointestinal symptoms , jaundice , or eosinophilia becomes evident or if liver function test values become altered .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C - No teratogenic effects were observed in rats when papaverine hydrochloride was administered subcutaneously as a single agent .
It is not known whether papaverine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Papaverine Hydrochloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when papaverine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following side effects have been reported : general discomfort , nausea , abdominal discomfort , anorexia , constipation or diarrhea , skin rash , malaise , vertigo , headache , intensive flushing of the face , perspiration , increase in the depth of respiration , increase in heart rate , a slight rise in blood pressure , and excessive sedation .
Hepatitis , probably related to an immune mechanism , has been reported infrequently .
Rarely , this has progressed to cirrhosis .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact BPI Labs , LLC at ( 727 ) 471 - 0850 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug dependence resulting from the abuse of many of the selective depressants , including papaverine hydrochloride , has been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms - The symptoms of toxicity from papaverine hydrochloride often result from vasomotor instability and include nausea , vomiting , weakness , central nervous system depression , nystagmus , diplopia , diaphoresis , flushing , dizziness , and sinus tachycardia .
In large overdoses , papaverine is a potent inhibitor of cellular respiration and a weak calcium antagonist .
Following an oral overdose of 15 g , metabolic acidosis with hyperventilation , hyperglycemia , and hypokalemia have been reported .
No information on toxic serum concentrations is available .
Following intravenous overdosing in animals , seizures , tachyarrhythmias , and ventricular fibrillation have been reported .
The oral median lethal dose in rats is 360 mg / kg .
Treatment - To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physician ’ s Desk Reference ( PDR ) In managing overdo sage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Protect the patient ' s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor vital signs , blood gases , blood chemistry values , and other variables .
If convulsions occur , consider diazepam , phenytoin , or phenobarbital .
If the seizures are refractory , general anesthesia with thiopental or halothane and paralysis with a neuromuscular blocking agent may be necessary .
For hypotension , consider intravenous fluids , elevation of the legs , and an inotropic vasopressor , such as dopamine or norepinephrine ( levarterenol ) .
Theoretically , calcium gluconate may be helpful in treating some of the toxic cardiovascular effects of papaverine ; monitor the ECG and plasma calcium concentrations .
Forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or charcoal hemoperfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of papaverine hydrochloride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Papaverine Hydrochloride may be administered intravenously or intramuscularly .
The intravenous route is recommended when an immediate effect is desired , but the drug must be injected slowly over the course of 1 or 2 minutes to avoid uncomfortable or alarming side effects .
Parenteral administration of papaverine hydrochloride in doses of 1 to 4 mL is repeated every 3 hours as indicated .
In the treatment of cardiac extrasystoles , 2 doses may be given 10 minutes apart .
HOW SUPPLIED Papaverine Hydrochloride Injection , USP , 30 mg / mL 54288 - 142 - 10 2 mL Vial packaged in boxes of 10 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
RETAIN IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE .
BPI Labs , LLC 12393 Belcher Rd S , Suite 450 Largo , FL USA 33773 LI33I R - 2105 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
