Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate , USP is a benzene , diethenyl - polymer , with ethenylbenzene , sulfonated , sodium salt and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The drug is a cream to light brown finely ground , powdered form of Sodium polystyrene sulfonate , USP a cation - exchange resin prepared in the sodium phase with an in vitro exchange capacity of approximately 3 . 1 mEq ( in vivo approximately 1 mEq ) of potassium per gram .
The sodium content is approximately 100 mg ( 4 . 1 mEq ) per gram of the drug .
It can be administered orally or in an enema .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY As the resin passes along the intestine or is retained in the colon after administration by enema , the sodium ions are partially released and are replaced by potassium ions .
For the most part , this action occurs in the large intestine , which excretes potassium ions to a greater degree than does the small intestine .
The efficiency of this process is limited and unpredictably variable .
It commonly approximates the order of 33 percent but the range is so large that definitive indices of electrolyte balance must be clearly monitored .
Metabolic data are unavailable .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension is indicated for the treatment of hyperkalemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension is contraindicated in the following conditions : patients with hypokalemia , patients with a history of hypersensitivity to polystyrene sulfonate resins , obstructive bowel disease , neonates with reduced gut motility ( postoperatively or drug induced ) and oral administration in neonates ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Intestinal Necrosis Cases of intestinal necrosis , which may be fatal , and other serious gastrointestinal adverse events ( bleeding , ischemic colitis , perforation ) have been reported in association with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension use .
The majority of these cases reported the concomitant use of sorbitol .
Risk factors for gastrointestinal adverse events were present in many of the cases including prematurity , history of intestinal disease or surgery , hypovolemia , and renal insufficiency and failure .
Concomitant administration of sorbitol is not recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
• Use only in patients who have normal bowel function .
Avoid use in patients who have not had a bowel movement post - surgery .
• Avoid use in patients who are at risk for developing constipation or impaction ( including those with history of impaction , chronic constipation , inflammatory bowel disease , ischemic colitis , vascular intestinal atherosclerosis , previous bowel resection , or bowel obstruction ) .
• Discontinue use in patients who develop constipation .
Alternative Therapy in Severe Hyperkalemia Since effective lowering of serum potassium with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension may take hours to days , treatment with this drug alone may be insufficient to rapidly correct severe hyperkalemia associated with states of rapid tissue breakdown ( e . g . , burns and renal failure ) or hyperkalemia so marked as to constitute a medical emergency .
Therefore , other definitive measures , including dialysis , should always be considered and may be imperative .
Hypokalemia Serious potassium deficiency can occur from therapy with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension .
The effect must be carefully controlled by frequent serum potassium determinations within each 24 hour period .
Since intracellular potassium deficiency is not always reflected by serum potassium levels , the level at which treatment with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension should be discontinued must be determined individually for each patient .
Important aids in making this determination are the patient ' s clinical condition and electrocardiogram .
Early clinical signs of severe hypokalemia include a pattern of irritable confusion and delayed thought processes .
Electrocardiographically , severe hypokalemia is often associated with a lengthened Q - T interval , widening , flattening , or inversion of the T wave , and prominent U waves .
Also , cardiac arrhythmias may occur , such as premature atrial , nodal , and ventricular contractions , and supraventricular and ventricular tachycardias .
The toxic effects of digitalis are likely to be exaggerated .
Marked hypokalemia can also be manifested by severe muscle weakness , at times extending into frank paralysis .
Electrolyte Disturbances Like all cation - exchange resins , Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension is not totally selective ( for potassium ) in its actions , and small amounts of other cations such as magnesium and calcium can also be lost during treatment .
Accordingly , patients receiving Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension should be monitored for all applicable electrolyte disturbances .
Systemic Alkalosis Systemic alkalosis has been reported after cation - exchange resins were administered orally in combination with nonabsorbable cation - donating antacids and laxatives such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum carbonate .
Magnesium hydroxide should not be administered with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension .
One case of grand mal seizure has been reported in a patient with chronic hypocalcemia of renal failure who was given Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension with magnesium hydroxide as laxative .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
PRECAUTIONS Caution is advised when Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension is administered to patients who cannot tolerate even a small increase in sodium loads ( i . e . , severe congestive heart failure , severe hypertension , or marked edema ) .
In such instances compensatory restriction of sodium intake from other sources may be indicated .
In the event of clinically significant constipation , treatment with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension should be discontinued until normal bowel motion is resumed ( see WARNINGS , Intestinal Necrosis ) .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Antacids The simultaneous oral administration of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension with nonabsorbable cation - donating antacids and laxatives may reduce the resin ' s potassium exchange capability .
Non - absorbable cation - donating antacids and laxatives Systemic alkalosis has been reported after cation - exchange resins were administered orally in combination with nonabsorbable cation - donating antacids and laxatives such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum carbonate .
Magnesium hydroxide should not be administered with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension .
One case of grand mal seizure has been reported in a patient with chronic hypocalcemia of renal failure who was given Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension with magnesium hydroxide as a laxative .
Intestinal obstruction due to concretions of aluminum hydroxide when used in combination with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension has been reported .
Digitalis The toxic effects of digitalis on the heart , especially various ventricular arrhythmias and A - V nodal dissociation , are likely to be exaggerated by hypokalemia , even in the face of serum digoxin concentrations in the " normal range " .
( See WARNINGS . )
Sorbitol Concomitant use of Sorbitol with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension has been implicated in cases of intestinal necrosis , which may be fatal .
Therefore , concomitant administration is not recommended .
( See WARNINGS . )
Lithium Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension may decrease absorption of lithium .
Thyroxine Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension may decrease absorption of thyroxine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension .
It is also not known whether Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The effectiveness of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension in pediatric patients has not been established .
In neonates , Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension should not be given by the oral route .
In both children and neonates particular care should be observed with rectal administration , as excessive dosage or inadequate dilution could result in impaction of the resin .
Due to the risk of digestive hemorrhage or intestinal necrosis , particular care should be observed in premature infants or low birth weight infants .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension may cause some degree of gastric irritation .
Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , and constipation may occur especially if high doses are given .
Also , hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , hypomagnesemia and significant sodium retention , and their related clinical manifestations , may occur ( see WARNINGS ) .
Occasionally diarrhea develops .
Large doses in elderly individuals may cause fecal impaction ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Rare instances of intestinal necrosis have been reported .
Intestinal obstruction due to concretions of aluminum hydroxide , when used in combination with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension has been reported .
The following events have been reported from worldwide post marketing experience : • Fecal impaction following rectal administration , particularly in children ; Gastrointestinal concretions ( bezoars ) following oral administration ; • Ischemic colitis , gastrointestinal tract ulceration or necrosis which could lead to intestinal perforation ; and , • Rare cases of acute bronchitis and / or broncho - pneumonia associated with inhalation of particles of polystyrene sulfonate .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage may result in electrolyte disturbances including hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia .
Biochemical disturbances resulting from overdosage may give rise to clinical signs and symptoms of hypokalemia , including : irritability , confusion , delayed thought processes , muscle weakness , hyporeflexia , which may progress to frank paralysis and / or apnea .
Tetany may occur .
Electrocardiographic changes may be consistent with hypokalemia or hypocalcemia ; cardiac arrhythmias may occur .
Appropriate measures should be taken to correct serum electrolytes ( potassium , calcium , magnesium ) , and the resin should be removed from the alimentary tract by appropriate use of laxatives or enemas .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Suspension of this drug should be freshly prepared and not stored beyond 24 hours .
The average daily adult dose of the resin is 15 g to 60 g .
This is best provided by administering 15 g ( approximately 4 level teaspoons ) of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension one to four times daily .
One gram of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension contains 4 . 1 mEq of sodium ; one level teaspoon contains approximately 3 . 5 g of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension and 15 mEq of sodium .
( A heaping teaspoon may contain as much as 10 g to 12 g of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension . )
Since the in vivo efficiency of sodium - potassium exchange resins is approximately 33 percent , about one third of the resin ' s actual sodium content is being delivered to the body .
In smaller children and infants , lower doses should be employed by using as a guide a rate of 1 mEq of potassium per gram of resin as the basis for calculation .
Each dose should be given as a suspension in a small quantity of water or , for greater palatability , in syrup .
The amount of fluid usually ranges from 20 mL to 100 mL , depending on the dose , or may be simply determined by allowing 3 mL to 4 mL per gram of resin .
Healthcare professionals should follow full aspiration precautions when administering this product , such as placing and maintaining the patient in an upright position while the resin is being administered .
The resin may be introduced into the stomach through a plastic tube and , if desired , mixed with a diet appropriate for a patient in renal failure .
The resin may also be given , although with less effective results , in an enema consisting ( for adults ) of 30 g to 50 g every six hours .
Each dose is administered as a warm emulsion ( at body temperature ) in 100 mL of aqueous vehicle .
The emulsion should be agitated gently during administration .
The enema should be retained as long as possible and followed by a cleansing enema .
After an initial cleansing enema , a soft , large size ( French 28 ) rubber tube is inserted into the rectum for a distance of about 20 cm , with the tip well into the sigmoid colon , and taped in place .
The resin is then suspended in the appropriate amount of aqueous vehicle at body temperature and introduced by gravity , while the particles are kept in suspension by stirring .
The suspension is flushed with 50 mL or 100 mL of fluid , following which the tube is clamped and left in place .
If back leakage occurs , the hips are elevated on pillows or a knee - chest position is taken temporarily .
A somewhat thicker suspension may be used , but care should be taken that no paste is formed , because the latter has a greatly reduced exchange surface and will be particularly ineffective if deposited in the rectal ampulla .
The suspension is kept in the sigmoid colon for several hours , if possible .
Then , the colon is irrigated with nonsodium containing solution at body temperature in order to remove the resin .
Two quarts of flushing solution may be necessary .
The returns are drained constantly through a Y tube connection .
While the use of sorbitol is not recommended , particular attention should be paid to this cleansing enema if sorbitol has been used .
The intensity and duration of therapy depend upon the severity and resistance of hyperkalemia .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension should not be heated for to do so may alter the exchange properties of the resin .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension is available as a cream to light brown , finely ground powder in bottles of 1 pound ( 454 g ) , NDC 62250 - 660 - 23 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Belcher Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 727 - 471 - 0850 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Rx Only Manufactured by Belcher Pharmaceuticals , LLC Largo , FL 33777 USA Revised December 2015 L49I D - 1512 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 454 g Bottle Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate for suspension Read package insert .
Average adult dose : 15 g ( approximately 4 level teaspoons ) one to four time daily in water .
See complete prescribing information .
The effect must be carefully controlled by frequent serum potassium determinations within each 24 hour period .
Sodium content approximately 60 mEq per 15 g . Suspension should be freshly prepared and not stored beyond 24 hours .
dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in the official compendia .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx Only Manufactured by Belcher Pharmaceuticals , LLC Largo , FL 33777 USA Revised December 2015 L49I D - 1512 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
