claims GOODSENSE Alcohol Free Antiseptic Oral Rinse SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION Active ingredient Cetylpyridinium chloride 0 . 07 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis , bleeding or redness persists for more than 2 weeks • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gun line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 years & older : rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfuls ) twice a day • do not swallow • children 6 years to under 12 years of age : supervise use • children under 6 years of age : do not use Other information • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , flavor , poloxamer 188 , sodium saccharin , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , sucralose , benzoic acid , blue 1 This rinse may cause temporary staining to the surface of teeth .
This is not harmful , and adequate brushing may prevent its occurrence .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Crest Pro - Health Multi - Protection Alcohol Free Rinse - Refreshing Clean Mint ** Killed at least 99 % of representative plaque organisms commonly associated with gingivitis in as little as 15 seconds Distributed by : Perrigo Direct , Inc .
Peachtree City , GA 30269 www . PerrigoDirect . com 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 GoodSense is a registered trademark of L . Perrigo Company .
principal display panel GOODSENSE Alcohol Free Antiseptic Oral Rinse Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Mint Flavor Kills 99 % of Germs for a healthier Mouth ** Helps prevent Plaque Helps prevent gingivitis Helps keep teeth feeling clean Freshens Breath No burn of alcohol Compare to active ingredients of Crest Pro - Health Rinse * 1 LITER ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
