Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL teaspoonful ) Chlophedianol Hydrochloride 12 . 5 mg Dexbrompheniramine Maleate 1 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Antihistamine Uses A nonnaracotic cough suppressant and antihistamine for the temporary relief of : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , watery eyes Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage .
• May cause drowsiness ; alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect .
Avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this product .
Do not take this product if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers , without first consulting your doctor .
Use caution when diving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • excitability may occur , especially in children • may cause marked drowsiness • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizes may increase the drowsiness effect • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough or nasal congestion persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 6 hours , not to exceed 4 doses in 24 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 6 hours , not to exceed 4 doses in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age : Consult a Physician .
Other information Store at 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Inactive ingredients Citric Acid , Glycerin , Grape Flavor , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol .
Questions ?
Comments ?
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Call 1 - 423 - 493 - 9170 ( 8 a . m . to 5 p . m . ) Product Package Label for 473 mL NDC 12830 - 864 - 16 Chlo HIst Oral Solution • Cough Suppressant • Antihistamine Grape Flavor EACH 5 mL ( 1 TEASPOONFUL ) CONTAINS : Chophedianol Hydrochloride .................................. 12 . 5 mg Dexbrompheniramine Maleate ................................................ 1 mg Alcohol Free / Gluten Free Sugar Free / Dye Free ONE PINT ( 473 mL ) Mfg . for R . A . McNeil Company Chattanooga , TN 37406 - 3738 Rev . 09 / 17 Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant cap .
THIS BOTTLE IS NOT TO BE DISPENSED TO THE CONSUMER .
Manufactured for : R . A . McNeil Company 1150 Latta Street Chattanooga , TN 37406 - 3738 US Patent # 9 , 050 , 289 Rev . 09 / 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
