Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone USP 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • Insect bites • poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac • cosmetics • jewelry • detergents • soaps • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Ask a doctor .
• for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Ask a doctor .
• for external anal itching if rectal bleeding occurs .
Consult a doctor promptly .
When using this product • do not get into the eyes • for external anal itching , do not use more than directed , unless told so by a doctor .
• do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition gets worse , or if symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years and over : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 2 years : ask a doctor • For external anal itching in adults : • when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with appropriate cleansing pad • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying • for external anal itching in children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • Do not use if seal is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • Store at room temperature • See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiration Date Inactive ingredients Aloe Vera Leaf , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Methylisothiazolinone , Propylene Glycol , Water , Stearic Acid , Trolamine , White Petrolatum Maximum Strength Anti - itch Cream Compared to the active ingredient in Cortizone 10 ® * Cortizone 10 ® * * This product is not affiliated with , manufactured by , or produced by the makers or owners of Cortisone 10 Distributed by .
EzriCare , LLC Lakewood , NJ www . EzriCare . com Made in India Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
