[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active ingredient Sulfur 3 % Purpose Acne treatment Use for the management of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• apply only to areas with acne .
• avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of the skin .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follows the directions stated below .
• cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , coco - glucoside , acrylates copolymer , coconut acid , coconut alcohol , glycereth - 18 ethylhexanoate , glycereth - 18 , behenyl alcohol , titanium dioxide ( CI 77891 ) , phenoxyethanol , sodium isethionate , sodium hydroxide , arachidyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , xanthan gum , ethylhexylglycerin , glycerin , tetrasodium glutamate diacetate , chamomilla recumta ( matricaria ) flower extract Questions or comments ?
Within US 1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 Distributed by Alchemee LLC .
Santa Monica , CA 90401 Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 • proactiv . com Made in the USA of foreign and domestic components .
Proactiv is a trademark of Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 FL .
OZ .
( 177 . 4 mL ) proactivcleanTM Mineral Acne Cleanser sulfur acne medication Both treats and helps prevent breakouts [ MULTIMEDIA ]
