Toothpaste Active ingredients Sodium Fluoride 0 . 243 % Purpose Anticavity Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
Warnings If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Do not swallow rinse .
Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision .
Adults and children 2 years of age and older Brush teeth thoroughly , preferably after each meal or at least twice a day , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children 2 years to 6 years Instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) .
Children under 2 years of age Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • twist off cap and remove foil seal Inactive ingredients Blue 1 , Cellulose Gum , Flavor ( Mint , Thymol and Eucalyptus Oil ) , Glycerin , Mica & Titanium Dioxide , PEG - 12 , Silica , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Tetrapotassium Pyrophosphate , Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate , Water , Xanthan Gum , Xylitol , Zinc gluconate Tongue Spray Active Ingredient Cetylpyridinium chloride 0 . 085 % Purpose Antibacterial Use Helps fight odor - causing bacteria Warnings Do not use if seal is broken .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than twice the recommended amount for tongue spraying is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Do not spray into the eyes .
If spray gets into eyes , hold eyelids apart and flush the eye continuously with running water for at least 15 minutes .
Directions Shake before use adults and children 12 years of age and older spray 2 - 3 times on the back of the tongue and gently scape with cleaner children 6 - 12 years of age supervise use children under 6 years do not use Other Information Store at 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Blue 1 , Flavor ( Peppermint Oil , Thymol and Eucalyptus Oil ) , PEG - 12 Dimethicone , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin , Water , Zinc Gluconate Mouth Rinse Active Ingredients Cetylpyridinium chloride 0 . 075 % Purpose Antibacterial , antiplaque , antigingivitis Use Helps prevent plaque that leads to gingivitis Helps fight odor - causing bacteria Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
Warnings If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use an ask a dentist if : gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks ; you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increasing spacing between teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Directions Do not swallow rinse .
Adults and children 12 years of age and older vigorously swish 1 / 2 oz .
( 20 mL ) of rinse , twice a day , for 30 seconds then spit out Children 6 years to under 12 years supervise use Children under 6 years do not use Inactive Ingredients Blue 1 , Citric acid , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Flavor ( Mint , Thymol and Eucalyptus Oil ) , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor oil , Poloxamer 407 , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Water , Xylitol , Zinc gluconate Other Information • store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Do not use products if seals are broken or missing .
Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
