Active ingredients Octinoxate ( 6 . 0 % ) Avobenzone ( 2 . 0 % ) Ensulizole ( 2 . 0 % ) Purpose Sunscreens Uses • Provides moderate protection against the adverse effects of the sun • Higher SPF gives more protection Warnings For external use only When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with cold water .
• Avoid direct contact with fabrics .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help .
Directions • After cleansing , massage over your face and neck , avoiding contact with your eyes .
• Apply evenly at least 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply as required .
• Not intended for children under the age of 12 .
• Not intended for protection while sunbathing .
Other information Do not store above 300 C or 860 F Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Cyclopentasiloxane , Alcohol denat . , Cyclohexasiloxane , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Triethanolamine , Dimethicone , Acrylamide / ammonium acrylate copolymer , Cetyl alcohol , Myristyl myristate , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Phenoxyethanol , Lauryl methacrylate / glycol dimethacrylate cross polymer , Polyisobutene , Glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , Betaine , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Dimethiconol , Methylparaben , Sodium 2 - pyrrolidone - 5 - carboxylate , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Sodium hyaluronate , Polysorbate 20 , Dipropylene glycol , Sorbitol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Serine , Glycine , Glutamic acid , Lysine , BHT , Alanine , Arginine , Threonine , Propylparaben .
USA / Canada : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Balanced Hydration ... Treat your skin to a long cool drink with this deliciously light lotion , created to work in harmony with oily to combination skin without blocking pores .
The revolutionary water - based formula vanishes in to give your skin just the amount of moisture it needs .
At the same time , the oil - absorbing micro - sponges work to reduce skin oiliness so you look youthfully radiant , not shiny .
With hyaluronic acid to keep skin hydrated for 24 hours , plus our ultra - light SPF 15 to care and protect .
After 2 weeks 68 % of our testers said their skin looked healthier and more radiant .
A little facial everyday ... After cleansing , massage over your face and neck .
Apply prior to sun exposure .
Avoid direct contact with eyes .
Dermatologically tested .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT06901 www . boots . com Bottle label Balanced Hydration ... Treat your skin to a long cool drink with this light fluid , created for oily to combination skin without blocking pores .
The water - based formula gives your skin just the amount of moisture it needs .
At the same time , the oil - absorbing micro - sponges work to reduce skin oiliness so you look youthfully radiant , not shiny .
With hyaluronic acid to keep skin hydrated for 24 hours .
After 2 weeks 68 % of our testers said their skin looked healthier and more radiant .
A little facial everyday ... After cleansing , massage over your face and neck .
Apply prior to sun exposure .
Avoid direct contact with eyes .
Dermatologically tested .
Active Ingredients : Octinoxate ( 6 . 0 % ) Avobenzone ( 2 . 0 % ) Ensulizole ( 2 . 0 % ) Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT06901 USA / Canada : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS www . boots . com Carton label No7 Rebalancing Day Fluid Oily / Combination Moisturises , mattifies and balances your skin Sunscreen SPF 15 Hypo - allergenic Boots 100 ml e 3 . 3 US Fl .
Oz Rebalancing Day Fluid carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Rebalancing Day Fluid Oily / Combination Moisturises and mattifies your skin Sunscreen SPF 15 Hypo - allergenic Boots 100 ml e 3 . 3 US Fl .
Oz Rebalancing Day Fluid bottle . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
