Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies - Sneezing - Nasal Stuffiness - Runny nose - Post nasal drip Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) Removes nasal and sinus drainage Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes Moisturizes dry nasal passages Keep out of reach of children Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not relieved .
Do not use unfiltered tap water .
see instructions inside box for proper water sources Directions Adults and children 4 years and over : Use 1 - 2 packets per 8 fl oz ( 240 mL ) up to every two hours as needed .
Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete directions and proper use .
Instructions for use USES : Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , colds , flu or allergies , including nasal stuffiness , sneezing , runny nose and post - nasal drip .
Removes inhaled irritants ( e . g . dust , pollen , smoke ) .
Promotes nasal and sinus drainage .
Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes .
DOSAGE : Adults and children age 4 years and older may use 1 - 2 packets of dry ingredients administered as described below as often asd every 2 hours .
For children under age 4 consult a health care professional before use .
DIRECTIONS : Read through entire section before using for the first time .
1 .
Remove the cap from the Walgreens Kettle Neti Pot .
2 .
Pour the pre - mixed saline dry into the Walgreens Kettle Neti Pot .
First - time users should start with one packet of the saline dry ingredients .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 2 full packets , Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest Walgreens pharmacy .
3 .
Fill the pot to the 8 oz line with distilled , sterile , or filtered water ( using a filter with an absolute pore size of 1 micron or smaller ) or previously boiled ( boil water 1 minute or 3 minutes if at elevations above 6 , 500 feet then allow to cool to body temperature ) water .
This makes 1 / 2 cup ( 4 oz ) of solution .
4 .
Tighten the cap on the pot securely , place one finger over the spout and one over the hole on the cap and gently shake the pot until the dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
5 .
Proper head position allows the solution to run through the nose by gravity .
- Lean over the sink so you are looking directly directly into the basin .
Holding the pot in your right hand , gently insert the spout into your right nostril so that it forms a comfortable seal .
- Rotate your head so that the right nostril is directly above the left .
The forehead should remain higher than the chin .
Raise the handle of the pot so that the solution enters the right nostril .
In a few moments , the solution will begin to drain out of the right nostril into the sink .
Do not inhale or " snort " solution into the nose - breathe through your mouth .
6 .
When the pot is empty , exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucous and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
7 .
Repeat the procedure on the other side .
8 .
Thoroughly rinse the pot after each use with water that has been distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the pot to air dry completely .
The Walgreens Kettle Neti Pot is top - rack dishwasher safe .
Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP ( 700 mg ) Sodium Chloride USP ( 2300 mg ) Inactive Ingredients None [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
