Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies - Sneezing - Nasal Stuffiness - Runny nose - Post nasal drip Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) Removes nasal and sinus drainage Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes Moisturizes dry nasal passages Keep out of reach of children Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not relieved .
Do not use unfiltered tap water .
see instructions inside box for proper water sources Do not use if nasal passages are completely blocked or if you have an ear infection or blocked ears .
Directions Adults and children 4 years and over : Use 1 - 2 packets per 8 fl oz ( 240 mL ) up to every 2 hours as needed .
Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete directions and proper use .
Other Information - Inspect saline packets for integrity - Do not use saline packets if open or torn - Protect saline packets from excessive heat and moisture - See saline packets or box for lot number and expiration date Questions ?
1 - 888 - 547 - 5492 Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP ( 700 mg ) Sodium Chloride USP ( 2300 mg ) Inactive Ingredients None Instructions for Use of the SinuCleanse Neti Pot Directions : Read through entire section before using for the first time .
1 .
Empty the contents of one SinuCleanse Saline Wash packet into the SinuCleanse Neti Pot .
First - time users should start with 1 / 2 packet of the SinuCleanse dry ingredients .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 1 full packet .
Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
2 .
Fill the pot halfway or to the middle of the indentation with a proper water source .
* This makes 1 / 2 cup ( 4 oz . )
solution .
3 .
Stir thoroughly until dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
4 .
Proper head position allows solution to flow through the nose by gravity .
- Lean over the sink with your head bent down so you are looking directly into the basin .
Holding the pot in your right hand , gently insert the spout into your right nostril so that it forms a comfortable seal .
- Rotate your head so that the right nostril is directly above the left .
The forehead should remain higher than the chin .
Raise the handle of the pot so that the solution enters the right nostril .
In a few moments , the solution will begn to drain out the left nostril into the sink .
Do not inhale or " snort " solution into the nose - breathe through your mouth .
5 .
When the pot i empty , exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucus and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
6 .
Repeat the procedure on the other side .
7 .
Thoroughly rinse the pot after each use with water that has been distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the pot to air dry completely .
The SinuCleanse Neti Pot is top - rack dishwasher safe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
