Active ingredient Agapalene USP 0 . 1 % ( retinoid ) * * read consumer information leaflet Purpose Acne treatment Use • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged skin ( cuts , abrasions eczema , sunburn ) • if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product Pregnancy / Breastfeeding , ask a doctor before use .
When using this product • limit sun exposure , including light from tanning beds , and use sunscreen when going outdoors .
• do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied • during the early weeks of use , your acne may appear to worsen before it improves ( this is normal ) ; continue using as directed , unless you get irritation that become severe • irritation ( redness , itching , dryness , burning ) is more likely to occur : • in the first few weeks of use • if using more than one topical acne medication at a time • but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product • it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see result • avoid product contact eyes , lips , and month .
If contact occurs immediately flush the area with water .
• wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • you become pregnant , or planning to become pregnant while using this product • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as itching , rash , hives , swelling of the lips , eyelids , and shortness of breath ) • irritation become severe • you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • use once daily • clean the skin gently and pat dry before applying the product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer .
For example , if your acne in on the face , apply the product to the entire face .
• do not use more than one time a day .
Applying more than directed will not provide faster or better results , but may worsen skin irritation .
• Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at rooms temperature 68º to 77ºF • protect from freezing Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer , edetate disodium , methylparabem , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium hydroxide Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel Compare to Differin ® Gel active ingredient ACNE TREATMENT ADAPALENE GEL USP , 0 . 1 % • Previously available only by prescription • FDA - approved • Dermatologist developed • Once daily topical retinoid * Oil free | Fragrance free Dermatologist developed and tested * Read consumer information leaflet before use TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
† This product is not manufactured or distributed by Galderma Laboratories , L . P . distributor of Differin ® Gel .
DISTRIBUTED BY BETTER LIVING BRANDS LLC P . O . BOX 99 PLEASANTON , CA 94566 - 0009 1 - 888 - 723 - 3929 www . betterlivingbrandsLLC . com Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
