DESCRIPTION CLINDAGEL ( clindamycin phosphate ) topical gel , 1 % , a topical antibiotic , contains clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram in a gel vehicle consisting of carbomer 941 , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
Chemically , clindamycin phosphate is a water - soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chlorosubstitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic , lincomycin , and has the structural formula represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics : In an open - label , parallel group study of 24 patients with acne vulgaris , once - daily topical administration of approximately 3 to 12 grams / day of CLINDAGEL for 5 days resulted in peak plasma clindamycin concentrations that were less than 5 . 5 ng / mL .
Following multiple applications of CLINDAGEL less than 0 . 04 % of the total dose was excreted in the urine .
Microbiology : Although clindamycin phosphate is inactiveinvitro , rapid invitro hydrolysis converts this compound to clindamycin , which has antibacterial activity .
Clindamycin inhibits bacteria protein synthesis at the ribosomal level by binding to the 50 S ribosomal subunit and affecting the process of peptide chain initiation .
In vitro studies indicated that clindamycin inhibited all tested Propionibacteriumacnes cultures at a minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) of 0 . 4 mcg / mL .
Cross - resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin .
CLINICAL STUDIES In one 12 - week multicenter , randomized , evaluator - blind , vehicle - controlled , parallel comparison clinical trial in which patients used CLINDAGEL ( clindamycin phosphate topical gel , 1 % ) once daily or the vehicle gel once daily , in the treatment of acne vulgaris of mild to moderate severity , CLINDAGEL applied once daily was more effective than the vehicle applied once daily .
The mean percent reductions in lesion counts at the end of treatment in this study are shown in the following table : Lesions CLINDAGEL QD N = 162 Vehicle Gel QD N = 82 Inflammatory 51 % 40 % [ 1 ] Noninflammatory 25 % 12 % null Total 38 % 27 % null [ 1 ] P < 0 . 05 There was a trend in the investigator ’ s global assessment of the results , which favored CLINDAGEL QD over the vehicle QD .
In a contact sensitization study , four of the 200 subjects appeared to develop suggestive evidence of allergic contact sensitization to CLINDAGEL .
There was no signal for contact sensitization in the clinical trials under normal use conditions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLINDAGEL is indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
In view of the potential for diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and pseudomembranous colitis , the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CLINDAGEL is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin , a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis , which may result in patient death .
Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis .
Stool culture for Clostridiumdifficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
When significant diarrhea occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea .
Antiperistaltic agents , such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine , may prolong and / or worsen the condition .
Diarrhea , colitis , and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin .
PRECAUTIONS General : CLINDAGEL should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Drug Interactions : Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : The carcinogenicity of a 1 % clindamycin phosphate gel similar to CLINDAGEL was evaluated by daily application to mice for 2 years .
The daily doses used in this study were approximately 3 and 15 times higher than the human dose of clindamycin phosphate from 5 mL of CLINDAGEL , assuming complete absorption and based on a body surface area comparison .
No significant increase in tumors was noted in the treated animals .
A 1 % clindamycin phosphate gel similar to CLINDAGELcaused a statistically significant shortening of the median time to tumor onset in a study in hairless mice in which tumors were induced by exposure to simulated sunlight .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Reproduction studies in rats using oral doses of clindamycin hydrochloride and clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using subcutaneous and oral doses of clindamycin phosphate , clindamycin hydrochloride , and clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride .
These studies revealed no evidence of fetal harm .
The highest dose used in the rat and mouse teratogenicity studies was equivalent to a clindamycin phosphate dose of 432 mg / kg .
For a rat , this dose is 84 - fold higher and for a mouse , 42 - fold higher than the anticipated human dose of clindamycin phosphate from CLINDAGELbased on a mg / m2 comparison .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in human milk following use of CLINDAGEL .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use : The clinical study with CLINDAGEL did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine if they respond differently than younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In the one well - controlled clinical study comparing CLINDAGEL and its vehicle , the incidence of skin and appendages adverse events occurring in ≥ 1 % of the patients in either group is presented in the following table : Number ( % ) of Patients Body System / Adverse Event CLINDAGEL QD N = 168 Vehicle Gel QD N = 84 Skin and Appendages Disorders • Dermatitis 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 1 . 2 ) • Dermatitis contact 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 1 . 2 ) • Dermatitis fungal 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 1 . 2 ) • Folliculitis 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 1 . 2 ) • Photosensitivity reaction 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 1 . 2 ) • Pruritus 1 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 ( 1 . 2 ) • Rash erythematous 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) • Skin dry 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) • Peeling 1 ( 0 . 6 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis , which may end fatally .
Cases of diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin ( see WARNINGS ) .
Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances , as well as gram - negative folliculitis , have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied CLINDAGEL may be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of CLINDAGEL once daily to the skin where acne lesions appear .
Use enough to cover the entire affected area lightly .
Keep container tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED CLINDAGEL containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram is available in the following size : 75 mL bottle - NDC 16781 - 462 - 75 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Do not store in direct sunlight .
Retain in carton until contents are used .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc .
Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 , Canada CLINDAGEL is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9706100 Rev . 01 / 20 Package / Label Display Panel Carton - CLINDAGEL NDC 16781 - 462 - 75 Rx only Clindagel ® ( clindamycin phosphate ) topical gel equivalent to 1 % clindamycin Topical Gel 1 % For Topical Use Only 75 mL Ortho Dermatologics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
