1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VENTOLIN HFA is a beta2 - adrenergic agonist indicated for : • • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
( 1 . 1 ) • • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Bronchospasm VENTOLIN ® HFA is indicated for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
1 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm VENTOLIN HFA is indicated for the prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer VENTOLIN HFA by oral inhalation only .
Shake VENTOLIN HFA well before each spray .
FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY .
• • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older : 2 inhalations every 4 to 6 hours .
For some patients , 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older : 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Priming information : Prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Cleaning information : At least once a week , wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Bronchospasm For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of symptoms associated with bronchospasm , the usual dosage for adults and children is 2 inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours ; in some patients , 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended .
2 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
2 . 3 Administration Information Priming : Priming VENTOLIN HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation .
Prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
Cleaning : To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage , wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely at least once a week .
Dose Counter : VENTOLIN HFA has a dose counter attached to the canister that starts at 204 or 64 and counts down each time a spray is released [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
When the counter reads 020 , the patient should contact the pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult the physician to determine whether a prescription refill is needed .
VENTOLIN HFA comes in a moisture - protective foil pouch , which should be removed prior to use .
Discard VENTOLIN HFA when the counter reads 000 or 12 months after removal from the moisture - protective foil pouch , whichever comes first [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
See Patient Information tear - off leaflet for instructions on how to prime and clean the inhaler to ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS VENTOLIN HFA is an inhalation aerosol .
Each actuation contains 108 mcg albuterol sulfate ( 90 mcg albuterol base ) from the mouthpiece .
VENTOLIN HFA is supplied as an 18 - g pressurized aluminum canister with dose counter fitted with a blue plastic actuator and a blue strapcap ; this canister contains 200 actuations .
VENTOLIN HFA is also supplied as an 8 - g pressurized aluminum canister with dose counter fitted with a blue plastic actuator and a blue strapcap ; this canister contains 60 actuations .
Inhalation aerosol : 108 mcg albuterol sulfate ( 90 mcg albuterol base ) from mouthpiece per actuation .
Supplied in 18 - g canister containing 200 actuations and 8 - g canister containing 60 actuations .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VENTOLIN HFA is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol or any other components of VENTOLIN HFA .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , and rash have been reported after the use of albuterol sulfate .
Hypersensitivity to albuterol sulfate or any of the ingredients of VENTOLIN HFA .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Paradoxical bronchospasm may occur and should be treated immediately with alternative therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Need for more doses of VENTOLIN HFA than usual may be a sign of deterioration of asthma and requires reevaluation of treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Cardiovascular effects may occur with beta - adrenergic agonists use .
Consider discontinuation of VENTOLIN HFA if these effects occur .
Use with caution in patients with underlying cardiovascular disorders .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur .
Discontinue VENTOLIN HFA if immediate hypersensitivity reactions occur .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Paradoxical Bronchospasm Inhaled albuterol sulfate can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , VENTOLIN HFA should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister .
5 . 2 Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of VENTOLIN HFA than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
5 . 3 Use of Anti - Inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids , to the therapeutic regimen .
5 . 4 Cardiovascular Effects VENTOLIN HFA , like all other beta2 - adrenergic agonists , can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients such as changes in pulse rate or blood pressure .
If such effects occur , VENTOLIN HFA may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , VENTOLIN HFA , like all other sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with underlying cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
5 . 5 Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma .
The exact cause of death is unknown , but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected .
5 . 6 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol , as demonstrated by cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema .
Discontinue VENTOLIN HFA if immediate hypersensitivity reactions occur .
5 . 7 Coexisting Conditions VENTOLIN HFA , like other sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
5 . 8 Hypokalemia As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of VENTOLIN HFA may be associated with the following : • • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Cardiovascular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are throat irritation , viral respiratory infections , upper respiratory inflammation , cough , and musculoskeletal pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety data described below reflects exposure to VENTOLIN HFA in 248 patients treated with VENTOLIN HFA in 3 placebo - controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks ’ duration .
The data from adults and adolescents is based upon 2 clinical trials in which 202 patients with asthma 12 years of age and older were treated with VENTOLIN HFA 2 inhalations 4 times daily for 12 weeks ’ duration .
The adult / adolescent population was 92 female , 110 male and 163 white , 19 black , 18 Hispanic , 2 other .
The data from pediatric patients are based upon 1 clinical trial in which 46 patients with asthma 4 to 11 years of age were treated with VENTOLIN HFA 2 inhalations 4 times daily for 2 weeks ’ duration .
The population was 21 female , 25 male and 25 white , 17 black , 3 Hispanic , 1 other .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older : The two 12 - week , randomized , double - blind studies in 610 adolescent and adult patients with asthma that compared VENTOLIN HFA , a CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler , and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler .
Overall , the incidence and nature of the adverse reactions reported for VENTOLIN HFA and a CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler were comparable .
Table 1 lists the incidence of all adverse reactions ( whether considered by the investigator to be related or unrelated to drug ) from these studies that occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the group treated with VENTOLIN HFA and more frequently in the group treated with VENTOLIN HFA than in the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler group .
Table 1 .
Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥ 3 % Incidence in 2 Large 12 - Week Clinical Trials in Adolescents and AdultsaAdverse Reaction Percent of Patients VENTOLIN HFA ( n = 202 ) % CFC 11 / 12 - Propelled Albuterol Inhaler ( n = 207 ) % Placebo HFA - 134 a ( n = 201 ) % Ear , nose , and throat Throat irritation 10 6 7 Upper respiratory inflammation 5 5 2 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 7 4 4 Cough 5 2 2 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 5 5 4 aThis table includes all adverse reactions ( whether considered by the investigator to be drug - related or unrelated to drug ) that occurred at an incidence rate of at least 3 . 0 % in the group treated with VENTOLIN HFA and more frequently in the group treated with VENTOLIN HFA than in the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler group .
Adverse reactions reported by less than 3 % of the adolescent and adult patients receiving VENTOLIN HFA and by a greater proportion of patients receiving VENTOLIN HFA than receiving HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler and that have the potential to be related to VENTOLIN HFA include diarrhea , laryngitis , oropharyngeal edema , cough , lung disorders , tachycardia , and extrasystoles .
Palpitation and dizziness have also been observed with VENTOLIN HFA .
Pediatric Patients : Results from the 2 - week pediatric clinical study in patients with asthma 4 to 11 years of age showed that this pediatric population had an adverse reaction profile similar to that of the adolescent and adult populations .
Three studies have been conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA in patients between birth and 4 years of age .
The results of these studies did not establish the efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA in this age - group [ see Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Since the efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA has not been demonstrated in children between birth and 48 months of age , the safety of VENTOLIN HFA in this age - group cannot be established .
However , the safety profile observed in the pediatric population under 4 years of age was comparable to that observed in the older pediatric patients and in adolescents and adults .
Where adverse reaction incidence rates were greater in patients under 4 years of age compared with older patients , the higher incidence rates were noted in all treatment arms , including placebo .
These adverse reactions included upper respiratory tract infection , nasopharyngitis , pyrexia , and tachycardia .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions listed in section 6 . 1 , the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of VENTOLIN HFA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cases of paradoxical bronchospasm , hoarseness , arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia ) , and hypersensitivity reactions ( including urticaria , angioedema , rash ) have been reported after the use of VENTOLIN HFA .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypokalemia , hypertension , peripheral vasodilatation , angina , tremor , central nervous system stimulation , hyperactivity , sleeplessness , headache , muscle cramps , drying or irritation of the oropharynx , and metabolic acidosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other short - acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with albuterol .
If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route , they should be used with caution to avoid deleterious cardiovascular effects .
• • Beta - blockers : May block bronchodilatory effects of beta - agonists and produce severe bronchospasm .
Patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Diuretics : Electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia associated with diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta - agonists .
Consider monitoring potassium levels .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOs ) or tricyclic antidepressants : May potentiate effect of albuterol on the vascular system .
Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAOs or tricyclic antidepressants .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Beta - Blockers Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as VENTOLIN HFA , but may produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers should be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
7 . 2 Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
Consider monitoring potassium levels .
7 . 3 Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical relevance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving inhaled albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants VENTOLIN HFA should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAOs or tricyclic antidepressants .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of VENTOLIN HFA or albuterol sulfate in pregnant women .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
No consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , and a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Animal reproduction studies in mice and rabbits revealed evidence of teratogenicity .
VENTOLIN HFA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In a mouse reproduction study , subcutaneously administered albuterol sulfate produced cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at exposures approximately equal to the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) for adults on a mg / m2 basis and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at approximately 8 times the MRHD .
Similar effects were not observed at approximately one eleventh of the MRHD .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
In a rabbit reproduction study , orally administered albuterol sulfate produced cranioschisis in 7 of 19 fetuses ( 37 % ) at approximately 680 times the MRHD .
In another rabbit study , an albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation administered by inhalation produced enlargement of the frontal portion of the fetal fontanelles at approximately one third of the MRHD [ see Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of VENTOLIN HFA for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Plasma levels of albuterol sulfate and HFA - 134 a after inhaled therapeutic doses are very low in humans , but it is not known whether the components of VENTOLIN HFA are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in animal studies and lack of experience with the use of VENTOLIN HFA by nursing mothers , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Caution should be exercised when VENTOLIN HFA is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VENTOLIN HFA in children 4 years of age and older has been established based upon two 12 - week clinical trials in patients 12 years of age and older with asthma and one 2 - week clinical trial in patients 4 to 11 years of age with asthma [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of VENTOLIN HFA in children under 4 years of age has not been established .
Three studies have been conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA in patients under 4 years of age and the findings are described below .
Two 4 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies were conducted in 163 pediatric patients from birth to 48 months of age with symptoms of bronchospasm associated with obstructive airway disease ( presenting symptoms included : wheeze , cough , dyspnea , or chest tightness ) .
VENTOLIN HFA or placebo HFA was delivered with either an AeroChamber Plus ® Valved Holding Chamber or an Optichamber ® Valved Holding Chamber with mask 3 times daily .
In one study , VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg ( N = 26 ) , VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg ( N = 25 ) , and placebo HFA ( N = 26 ) were administered to children between 24 and 48 months of age .
In the second study , VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg ( N = 29 ) , VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg ( N = 29 ) , and placebo HFA ( N = 28 ) were administered to children between birth and 24 months of age .
Over the 4 - week treatment period , there were no treatment differences in asthma symptom scores between the groups receiving VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg , VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg , and placebo in either study .
In a third study , VENTOLIN HFA was evaluated in 87 pediatric patients younger than 24 months of age for the treatment of acute wheezing .
VENTOLIN HFA was delivered with an AeroChamber Plus Valved Holding Chamber in this study .
There were no significant differences in asthma symptom scores and mean change from baseline in an asthma symptom score between VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg and VENTOLIN HFA 360 mcg .
In vitro dose characterization studies were performed to evaluate the delivery of VENTOLIN HFA via holding chambers with facemasks .
The studies were conducted with 2 different holding chambers with facemasks ( small and medium size ) .
The in vitro study data when simulated to patients suggest that the dose of VENTOLIN HFA presented for inhalation via a valved holding chamber with facemask will be comparable to the dose delivered in adults without a spacer and facemask per kilogram of body weight ( Table 2 ) .
However , clinical studies in children under 4 years of age described above suggest that either the optimal dose of VENTOLIN HFA has not been defined in this age - group or VENTOLIN HFA is not effective in this age - group .
The safety and effectiveness of VENTOLIN HFA administered with or without a spacer device in children under 4 years of age has not been demonstrated .
Table 2 .
In Vitro Medication Delivery Through AeroChamber Plus ® Valved Holding Chamber With a FacemaskAge Facemask Flow Rate ( L / min ) Holding Time ( seconds ) Mean Medication Delivery Through AeroChamber Plus ( mcg / actuation ) Body Weight 50 th Percentile ( kg ) a Medication Delivered per Actuation ( mcg / kg ) b 6 to 12 Months Small 4 . 9 0 2 5 10 18 . 2 19 . 8 13 . 8 15 . 4 7 . 5 - 9 . 9 1 . 8 - 2 . 4 2 . 0 - 2 . 6 1 . 4 - 1 . 8 1 . 6 - 2 . 1 2 to 5 Years Small 8 . 0 0 2 5 10 17 . 8 16 . 0 16 . 3 18 . 3 12 . 3 - 18 . 0 1 . 0 - 1 . 4 0 . 9 - 1 . 3 0 . 9 - 1 . 3 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 2 to 5 Years Medium 8 . 0 0 2 5 10 21 . 1 15 . 3 18 . 3 18 . 2 12 . 3 - 18 . 0 1 . 2 - 1 . 7 0 . 8 - 1 . 2 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 > 5 Years Medium 12 . 0 0 2 5 10 26 . 8 20 . 9 19 . 6 20 . 3 18 . 0 1 . 5 1 . 2 1 . 1 1 . 1 aCenters for Disease Control growth charts , developed by the National Center for Health Statistics in collaboration with the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion ( 2000 ) .
Ranges correspond to the average of the 50 th percentile weight for boys and girls at the ages indicated .
bA single inhalation of VENTOLIN HFA in a 70 - kg adult without use of a valved holding chamber and facemask delivers approximately 90 mcg , or 1 . 3 mcg / kg .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of VENTOLIN HFA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats / min , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , sleeplessness .
Hypokalemia and metabolic acidosis may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic aerosol medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of VENTOLIN HFA .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of VENTOLIN HFA together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of VENTOLIN HFA .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2 , 000 mg / kg ( approximately 6 , 800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 3 , 200 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 3 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 1 , 400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2 , 000 mg / kg ( approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 6 , 400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The inhalation median lethal dose has not been determined in animals .
11 DESCRIPTION The active component of VENTOLIN HFA is albuterol sulfate , USP , the racemic form of albuterol and a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Albuterol sulfate has the chemical name α1 - [ ( tert - butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ′ - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Albuterol sulfate is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 576 . 7 , and the empirical formula is ( C13H21NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
The World Health Organization recommended name for albuterol base is salbutamol .
VENTOLIN HFA is a pressurized metered - dose aerosol unit fitted with a counter .
VENTOLIN HFA is intended for oral inhalation only .
Each unit contains a microcrystalline suspension of albuterol sulfate in propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) .
It contains no other excipients .
Priming VENTOLIN HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation .
To prime the inhaler , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
The inhaler should be primed before using it for the first time , when it has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when it has been dropped .
After priming , each actuation of the inhaler delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate , USP in 75 mg of suspension from the valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate , USP from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base from the mouthpiece ) .
Each 18 - g canister provides 200 inhalations .
Each 8 - g canister provides 60 inhalations .
This product does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta2 - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % of cardiac beta - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Activation of beta2 - adrenergic receptors on airway smooth muscle leads to the activation of adenylcyclase and to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
This increase of cyclic AMP leads to the activation of protein kinase A , which inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations , resulting in relaxation .
Albuterol relaxes the smooth muscles of all airways , from the trachea to the terminal bronchioles .
Albuterol acts as a functional antagonist to relax the airway irrespective of the spasmogen involved , thus protecting against all bronchoconstrictor challenges .
Increased cyclic AMP concentrations are also associated with the inhibition of release of mediators from mast cells in the airway .
Albuterol has been shown in most controlled clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacokinetics The systemic levels of albuterol are low after inhalation of recommended doses .
A study conducted in 12 healthy male and female subjects using a higher dose ( 1 , 080 mcg of albuterol base ) showed that mean peak plasma concentrations of approximately 3 ng / mL occurred after dosing when albuterol was delivered using propellant HFA - 134 a .
The mean time to peak concentrations ( Tmax ) was delayed after administration of VENTOLIN HFA ( Tmax = 0 . 42 hours ) as compared to CFC - propelled albuterol inhaler ( Tmax = 0 . 17 hours ) .
Apparent terminal plasma half - life of albuterol is approximately 4 . 6 hours .
No further pharmacokinetic studies for VENTOLIN HFA were conducted in neonates , children , or elderly subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at and above dietary doses of 2 . 0 mg / kg ( approximately 14 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 6 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 700 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in Golden hamsters , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 225 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 110 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or a mutation test in yeast .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses of albuterol sulfate up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 340 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Preclinical : Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 . 0 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
Propellant HFA - 134 a is devoid of pharmacological activity except at very high doses in animals ( 380 to 1 , 300 times the maximum human exposure based on comparisons of AUC values ) , primarily producing ataxia , tremors , dyspnea , or salivation .
These are similar to effects produced by the structurally related CFCs , which have been used extensively in metered - dose inhalers .
In animals and humans , propellant HFA - 134 a was found to be rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated , with an elimination half - life of 3 to 27 minutes in animals and 5 to 7 minutes in humans .
Time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) and mean residence time are both extremely short , leading to a transient appearance of HFA - 134 a in the blood with no evidence of accumulation .
Reproductive Toxicology Studies : A study in CD - 1 mice given albuterol sulfate subcutaneously showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation at a dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 fetuses ( 37 % ) when albuterol sulfate was administered orally at a 50 mg / kg dose ( approximately 680 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In an inhalation reproduction study in New Zealand white rabbits , albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation exhibited enlargement of the frontal portion of the fetal fontanelles at and above inhalation doses of 0 . 0193 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabeled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material is transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Bronchospasm Associated With Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older : The efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA was evaluated in two 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo controlled trials in patients 12 years of age and older with mild to moderate asthma .
These trials included a total of 610 patients ( 323 males , 287 females ) .
In each trial , patients received 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA , CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol , or HFA - 134 a placebo 4 times daily for 12 weeks ’ duration .
Patients taking the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler also took VENTOLIN HFA for asthma symptom relief on an as - needed basis .
Some patients who participated in these clinical trials were using concomitant inhaled steroid therapy .
Efficacy was assessed by serial forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( FEV1 ) .
In each of these trials , 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in FEV1 over the pretreatment value than placebo .
Results from the 2 clinical trials are described below .
In a 12 - week , randomized , double - blind study , VENTOLIN HFA ( 101 patients ) was compared to CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol ( 99 patients ) and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler ( 97 patients ) in adolescent and adult patients 12 to 76 years of age with mild to moderate asthma .
Serial FEV1 measurements [ shown below as percent change from test - day baseline at Day 1 ( n = 297 ) and at Week 12 ( n = 249 ) ] demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in FEV1 over the pretreatment value than placebo .
FEV1 as Percent Change From Predose in a Large , 12 - Week Clinical Trial Day 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Week 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] In the responder population ( ≥ 15 % increase in FEV1 within 30 minutes postdose ) treated with VENTOLIN HFA , the mean time to onset of a 15 % increase in FEV1 over the pretreatment value was 5 . 4 minutes , and the mean time to peak effect was 56 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 15 % increase in FEV1 over the pretreatment value was approximately 4 hours .
In some patients , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
The second 12 - week randomized , double - blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of switching patients from CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol to VENTOLIN HFA .
During the 3 - week run - in phase of the study , all patients received CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol .
During the double - blind treatment phase , VENTOLIN HFA ( 91 patients ) was compared to CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol ( 100 patients ) and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler ( 95 patients ) in adolescent and adult patients with mild to moderate asthma .
Serial FEV1 measurements demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in pulmonary function than placebo .
The switching from CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler to VENTOLIN HFA did not reveal any clinically significant changes in the efficacy profile .
In the 2 adult studies , the efficacy results from VENTOLIN HFA were significantly greater than placebo and were clinically comparable to those achieved with CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol , although small numerical differences in mean FEV1 response and other measures were observed .
Physicians should recognize that individual responses to beta - adrenergic agonists administered via different propellants may vary and that equivalent responses in individual patients should not be assumed .
Pediatric Patients 4 Years of Age : The efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA was evaluated in one 2 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in 135 pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age with mild to moderate asthma .
In this trial , patients received VENTOLIN HFA , CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol , or HFA - 134 a placebo .
Serial pulmonary function measurements demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in pulmonary function than placebo and that there were no significant differences between the groups treated with VENTOLIN HFA and CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol .
In the responder population treated with VENTOLIN HFA , the mean time to onset of a 15 % increase in peak expiratory flow rate ( PEFR ) over the pretreatment value was 7 . 8 minutes , and the mean time to peak effect was approximately 90 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 15 % increase in PEFR over the pretreatment value was greater than 3 hours .
In some patients , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm One controlled clinical study in adult patients with asthma ( N = 24 ) demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA taken approximately 30 minutes prior to exercise significantly prevented exercise - induced bronchospasm ( as measured by maximum percentage fall in FEV1 following exercise ) compared to an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler .
In addition , VENTOLIN HFA was shown to be clinically comparable to a CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler for this indication .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VENTOLIN HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol is supplied in the following packs as a pressurized aluminum canister fitted with a counter with a blue plastic actuator and a blue strapcap packaged within a moisture - protective foil pouch that also contains a desiccant : NDC 63187 - 026 - 08 8 - g institutional pack canister containing 60 actuations Before using , VENTOLIN HFA should be removed from the moisture - protective foil pouch .
The pouch and desiccant should be discarded .
VENTOLIN HFA should be discarded 12 months after removal from the pouch .
Priming VENTOLIN HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation .
To prime the inhaler , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
The inhaler should be primed before using it for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when it has been dropped .
After priming , each actuation delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate , USP in 75 mg of suspension from the valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate , USP from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base from the mouthpiece ) .
To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage , wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely at least once a week [ see the Patient Information tear ‑ off leaflet ] .
The blue actuator supplied with VENTOLIN HFA should not be used with any other product canisters , and actuators from other products should not be used with a VENTOLIN HFA canister .
VENTOLIN HFA has a counter attached to the canister .
The counter starts at 204 or 64 and counts down each time a spray is released .
The correct amount of medication in each inhalation cannot be assured after the counter reads 000 , even though the canister is not completely empty and will continue to operate .
VENTOLIN HFA should be discarded when the counter reads 000 or 12 months after removal from the moisture - protective foil pouch , whichever comes first .
Never immerse the canister in water to determine the amount of drug remaining in the canister .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Contents Under Pressure : Do not puncture .
Do not use or store near heat or open flame .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Never throw container into fire or incinerator .
Store between 15 ° and 25 ° C ( 59 ° and 77 ° F ) .
Store the inhaler with the mouthpiece down .
For best results , the inhaler should be at room temperature before use .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE EACH SPRAY .
VENTOLIN HFA does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
17 . 1 Frequency of Use The action of VENTOLIN HFA should last up to 4 to 6 hours .
VENTOLIN HFA should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of doses of VENTOLIN HFA without consulting the physician .
If patients find that treatment with VENTOLIN HFA becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , symptoms become worse , and / or they need to use the product more frequently than usual , they should seek medical attention immediately .
17 . 2 Priming and Cleaning Priming : Patients should be instructed that priming VENTOLIN HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation .
Patients should prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , patients should release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
Cleaning : To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage , patients should be instructed to wash the actuator and dry thoroughly at least once a week .
Patients should be informed that detailed cleaning instructions are included in the Patient Information leaflet .
17 . 3 Dose Counter Patients should be informed that VENTOLIN HFA has a dose counter that starts at 204 or 64 and counts down each time a spray is released .
Patients should be informed to discard VENTOLIN HFA when the counter reads 000 or 12 months after removal from the moisture - protective foil pouch , whichever comes first .
When the counter reads 020 , the patient should contact the pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult the physician to determine whether a prescription refill is needed .
Patients should never try to alter the numbers or remove the counter from the metal canister .
Patients should never immerse the canister in water to determine the amount of drug remaining in the canister .
17 . 4 Paradoxical Bronchospasm Patients should be informed that VENTOLIN HFA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , patients should discontinue VENTOLIN HFA .
17 . 5 Concomitant Drug Use While patients are using VENTOLIN HFA , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by the physician .
17 . 6 Common Adverse Effects Common adverse effects of treatment with inhaled albuterol include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , and nervousness .
17 . 7 Pregnancy Patients who are pregnant or nursing should contact their physicians about the use of VENTOLIN HFA .
VENTOLIN is a registered trademark of GlaxoSmithKline .
AeroChamber Plus is a registered trademark of Monaghan Medical Inc .
OptiChamber is a registered trademark of Respironics Inc .
• GlaxoSmithKline • Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2012 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
VNT : 8 PI • PHARMACIST — DETACH HERE AND GIVE LEAFLET TO PATIENT Patient Information VENTOLIN ® HFA ( vent ′ o - lin ) ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol Read this Patient Information before you start using VENTOLIN HFA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is VENTOLIN HFA ?
VENTOLIN HFA is a prescription medicine used in people 4 years of age and older to : • • treat or prevent bronchospasm in people who have reversible obstructive airway disease • • prevent exercise - induced bronchospasm It is not known if VENTOLIN HFA is safe and effective in children under 4 years of age .
Who should not use VENTOLIN HFA ?
Do not use VENTOLIN HFA if you are allergic to albuterol sulfate or any of the ingredients in VENTOLIN HFA .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in VENTOLIN HFA .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before I use VENTOLIN HFA ?
Before you use VENTOLIN HFA , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • have heart problems • • have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) • • have convulsions ( seizures ) • • have thyroid problems • • have diabetes • • have low potassium levels in your blood • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if VENTOLIN HFA will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VENTOLIN HFA passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you are using VENTOLIN HFA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
VENTOLIN HFA and other medicines may affect each other and cause side effects .
VENTOLIN HFA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect the way VENTOLIN HFA works .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • other inhaled medicines or asthma medicines • • beta - blocker medicines • • diuretics • • digoxin • • monoamine oxidase inhibitors • • tricyclic antidepressants Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use VENTOLIN HFA ?
• • For detailed instructions , see “ Instructions for Use ” at the end of this Patient Information .
• • Use VENTOLIN HFA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Do not increase your dose or take extra doses of VENTOLIN HFA without first talking to your healthcare provider .
• • If your child needs to use VENTOLIN HFA , watch your child closely to make sure your child uses the inhaler correctly .
Your healthcare provider will show you how your child should use VENTOLIN HFA .
• • Each dose of VENTOLIN HFA should last up to 4 hours to 6 hours .
• • Get medical help right away if VENTOLIN HFA no longer helps your symptoms .
• • Get medical help right away if your symptoms get worse or if you need to use your inhaler more often .
• • While you are using VENTOLIN HFA , use other inhaled medicines and asthma medicines only as directed by your healthcare provider .
• • Call your healthcare provider if your asthma symptoms like wheezing and trouble breathing become worse over a few hours or days .
Your healthcare provider may need to give you another medicine to treat your symptoms .
What are the possible side effects of VENTOLIN HFA ?
VENTOLIN HFA may cause serious side effects , including : • • worsening trouble breathing , coughing , and wheezing ( paradoxical bronchospasm ) .
If this happens , stop using VENTOLIN HFA and call your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away .
Paradoxical bronchospasm is more likely to happen with your first use of a new canister of medicine .
• • heart problems , including faster heart rate and higher blood pressure • • possible death in people with asthma who use too much VENTOLIN HFA • • allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms of an allergic reaction : • • itchy skin • • swelling beneath your skin or in your throat • • rash • • worsening trouble breathing • • low potassium levels in your blood • • worsening of other medical problems in people who also use VENTOLIN HFA , including increases in blood sugar Common side effects of VENTOLIN HFA include : • • your heart feels like it is pounding or racing ( palpitations ) • • chest pain • • fast heart rate • • shakiness • • nervousness • • headache • • pain • • dizziness • • sore throat • • runny nose Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of VENTOLIN HFA .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VENTOLIN HFA ?
• • Store VENTOLIN HFA at room temperature between 59 ° F and 77 ° F ( 15 ° C and 25 ° C ) with the mouthpiece down .
• • Avoid exposure to extreme heat and cold .
• • Shake the VENTOLIN HFA canister well before use .
• • Do not puncture the VENTOLIN HFA canister .
• • Do not store the VENTOLIN HFA canister near heat or a flame .
Temperatures above 120 ° F may cause the canister to burst .
• • Do not throw the VENTOLIN HFA canister into a fire or an incinerator .
• • Avoid spraying VENTOLIN HFA in your eyes .
Keep VENTOLIN HFA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VENTOLIN HFA Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use VENTOLIN HFA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VENTOLIN HFA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about VENTOLIN HFA .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about VENTOLIN HFA that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , go to www . ventolin . com or call 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 .
What are the ingredients in VENTOLIN HFA ?
Active ingredient : albuterol sulfate Inactive ingredient : propellant HFA - 134 a Instructions for Use VENTOLIN ® HFA ( vent ′ o - lin ) ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol Read this Instructions for Use before you start using VENTOLIN HFA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
The parts of your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler : There are 2 main parts of your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler : • • the blue plastic actuator that sprays the medicine into your mouth .
See Figure A . • • the metal canister that holds the medicine .
See Figure A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A The actuator has a protective cap that covers the mouthpiece .
The strap on the cap will stay attached to the actuator .
Do not use this actuator with a canister of medicine from any other inhaler .
Do not use this canister of medicine with an actuator from any other inhaler .
The canister has a counter that shows you how many sprays of medicine you have left .
The number shows through a window in the back of the actuator .
The counter starts at either 204 or 64 , depending on which size inhaler you have .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Priming your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler : Your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler must be primed before you use it for the first time , when it has not been used for more than 14 days in a row , or if it has been dropped .
Do not prime your VENTOLIN HFA every day .
• • Remove your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler from its packaging .
• • Throw away the pouch and the drying packet that comes inside the pouch .
• • Remove the protective cap from the mouthpiece .
• • Shake the inhaler well , and spray it into the air away from your face .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C • • Shake and spray the inhaler like this 3 more times to finish priming it .
After you prime the actuator for the first time , the dose counter in the window on the back of the actuator should show the number 200 or 60 , depending on which size inhaler you have .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Each time you use your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler : • • Make sure the canister fits firmly in the plastic actuator .
• • Look into the mouthpiece to make sure there are no foreign objects there , especially if the strap is no longer attached to the actuator or the cap has not been used to cover the mouthpiece .
Reading the dose counter on your VENTOLIN HFA actuator : • • The dose counter will count down by 1 number each time you spray the inhaler .
• • The dose counter stops counting when it reaches 000 .
It will continue to show 000 .
• • The dose counter cannot be reset , and it is permanently attached to the metal canister .
Never try to change the numbers for the dose counter or take the counter off the metal canister .
• • Do not remove the canister from the plastic actuator except during cleaning to prevent accidently spraying a dose of VENTOLIN HFA into the air .
Using your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler : Step 1 .
Shake the inhaler well before each spray .
Take the cap off the mouthpiece of the actuator .
• Step 2 .
Hold the inhaler with the mouthpiece down .
See Figure E . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E • Step 3 .
Breathe out through your mouth and push as much air from your lungs as you can .
Put the mouthpiece in your mouth and close your lips around it .
See Figure F . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F • Step 4 .
Push the top of the canister all the way down while you breathe in deeply and slowly through your mouth .
See Figure F . Step 6 .
Hold your breath as long as you can , up to 10 seconds , then breathe normally .
If your healthcare provider has told you to use more sprays , wait 1 minute and shake the inhaler again .
Repeat Steps 2 through Step 6 .
• Step 7 .
Put the cap back on the mouthpiece after every time you use the inhaler .
Make sure the cap snaps firmly into place .
Cleaning your VENTOLIN HFA actuator : It is very important to keep the plastic actuator clean so the medicine will not build - up and block the spray .
See Figure G . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G • • Do not try to clean the metal canister or let it get wet .
The inhaler may stop spraying if it is not cleaned correctly .
• • Wash the actuator at least once a week as follows : • Step 8 .
Take the canister out of the actuator , and take the cap off the mouthpiece .
The strap on the cap will stay attached to the actuator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H • Step 10 .
Turn the actuator upside down and run warm water through the mouthpiece for about 30 seconds .
See Figure I . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I • Step 11 .
Shake off as much water from the actuator as you can .
Look into the mouthpiece to make sure any medicine build - up has been completely washed away .
If there is any build - up , repeat Steps 9 and 10 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J • Step 13 .
When the actuator is dry , put the canister in the actuator and make sure it fits firmly .
Shake the inhaler well and spray it once into the air away from your face .
( The counter will count down by 1 number . )
Put the cap back on the mouthpiece .
If you need to use your inhaler before the actuator is completely dry : • • Shake as much water off the actuator as you can .
• • Put the canister in the actuator and make sure it fits firmly .
• • Shake the inhaler well and spray it once into the air away from your face .
• • Take your VENTOLIN HFA dose as prescribed .
• • Follow cleaning Steps 8 through 13 above .
Replacing your VENTOLIN HFA inhaler : • • When the dose counter on the actuator shows the number 020 , you need to refill your prescription or ask your doctor for another prescription for VENTOLIN HFA .
• • Throw the VENTOLIN HFA inhaler away as soon as the dose counter shows 000 , after the expiration date on the VENTOLIN HFA packaging , or 12 months after you open the foil pouch , whichever comes first .
You should not keep using the inhaler after the dose counter shows 000 even though the canister may not be completely empty .
You cannot be sure you will receive the right amount of medicine .
VENTOLIN is a registered trademark of GlaxoSmithKline .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2012 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
October 2012 VNT : 8 PIL Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
