DESCRIPTION Mefloquine hydrochloride is an antimalarial agent available as 250 mg tablets of mefloquine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 228 . 0 mg of the free base ) for oral administration .
Mefloquine hydrochloride is a 4 - quinolinemethanol derivative with the specific chemical name of ( R * , S * ) - ( ± ) - α - 2 - piperidinyl - 2 , 8 - bis ( trifluoromethyl ) - 4 - quinolinemethanol hydrochloride .
It is a 2 - aryl substituted chemical structural analog of quinine .
The drug is a white to almost white crystalline compound , slightly soluble in water .
Mefloquine hydrochloride has a calculated molecular weight of 414 . 78 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The inactive ingredients are crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PharmacokineticsAbsorptionThe absolute oral bioavailability of mefloquine has not been determined since an intravenous formulation is not available .
The bioavailability of the tablet formation compared with an oral solution was over 85 % .
The presence of food significantly enhances the rate and extent of absorption , leading to about a 40 % increase in bioavailability .
In healthy volunteers , plasma concentrations peak 6 to 24 hours ( median , about 17 hours ) after a single dose of mefloquine .
In a similar group of volunteers , maximum plasma concentrations in mcg / L are roughly equivalent to the dose in milligrams ( for example , a single 1000 mg dose produces a maximum concentration of about 1000 mcg / L ) .
In healthy volunteers , a dose of 250 mg once weekly produces maximum steady - state plasma concentrations of 1000 to 2000 mcg / L , which are reached after 7 to 10 weeks .
DistributionIn healthy adults , the apparent volume of distribution is approximately 20 L / kg , indicating extensive tissue distribution .
Mefloquine may accumulate in parasitized erythrocytes .
Experiments conducted in vitro with human blood using concentrations between 50 and 1000 mg / mL showed a relatively constant erythrocyte - to - plasma concentration ratio of about 2 to 1 .
The equilibrium reached in less than 30 minutes was found to be reversible .
Protein binding is about 98 % .
Mefloquine crosses the placenta .
Excretion into breast milk appears to be minimal ( see PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers ) .
MetabolismMefloquine is extensively metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 system .
In vitro and in vivo studies strongly suggested that CYP3A4 is the major isoform involved .
Two metabolites of mefloquine have been identified in humans .
The main metabolite , 2 , 8 - bis - trifluoromethyl - 4 - quinoline carboxylic acid , is inactive in Plasmodium falciparum .
In a study in healthy volunteers , the carboxylic acid metabolite appeared in plasma 2 to 4 hours after a single oral dose .
Maximum plasma concentrations of the metabolite , which were about 50 % higher than those of mefloquine , were reached after 2 weeks .
Thereafter , plasma levels of the main metabolite and mefloquine declined at a similar rate .
The area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of the main metabolite was 3 to 5 times larger than that of the parent drug .
The other metabolite , an alcohol , was present in minute quantities only .
EliminationIn several studies in healthy adults , the mean elimination half - life of mefloquine varied between 2 and 4 weeks , with an average of about 3 weeks .
Total clearance , which is essentially hepatic , is in the order of 30 mL / min .
There is evidence that mefloquine is excreted mainly in the bile and feces .
In volunteers , urinary excretion of unchanged mefloquine and its main metabolite under steady - state condition accounted for about 9 % and 4 % of the dose , respectively .
Concentrations of other metabolites could not be measured in the urine .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Clinical SituationsChildren and the ElderlyNo relevant age - related changes have been observed in the pharmacokinetics of mefloquine .
Therefore , the dosage for children has been extrapolated from the recommended adult dose .
No pharmacokinetic studies have been performed in patients with renal insufficiency since only a small proportion of the drug is eliminated renally .
Mefloquine and its main metabolite are not appreciably removed by hemodialysis .
No special chemoprophylactic dosage adjustments are indicated for dialysis patients to achieve concentrations in plasma similar to those in healthy persons .
Although clearance of mefloquine may increase in late pregnancy , in general , pregnancy has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of mefloquine .
The pharmacokinetics of mefloquine may be altered in acute malaria .
Pharmacokinetic differences have been observed between various ethnic populations .
In practice , however , these are of minor importance compared with host immune status and sensitivity of the parasite .
During long - term prophylaxis ( > 2 years ) , the trough concentrations and the elimination half - life of mefloquine were similar to those obtained in the same population after 6 months of drug use , which is when they reached steady state .
In vitro and in vivo studies showed no hemolysis associated with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ( see ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY ) .
MicrobiologyMechanism of ActionMefloquine is an antimalarial agent which acts as a blood schizonticide .
Its exact mechanism of action is not known .
Activity In Vitro and In VivoMefloquine is active against the erythrocytic stages of Plasmodium species ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
However , the drug has no effect against the exoerythrocytic ( hepatic ) stages of the parasite .
Mefloquine is effective against malaria parasites resistant to chloroquine ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Drug ResistanceStrains of P . falciparum with decreased susceptibility to mefloquine can be selected in vitro or in vivo .
Resistance of P . falciparum to mefloquine has been reported in areas of multi - drug resistance in South East Asia .
Increased incidences of resistance have also been reported in other parts of the world .
Cross ResistanceCross - resistance between mefloquine and halofantrine and cross - resistance between mefloquine and quinine have been observed in some regions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment of Acute Malaria InfectionsMefloquine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate acute malaria caused by mefloquine - susceptible strains of P . falciparum ( both chloroquine - susceptible and resistant strains ) or by Plasmodium vivax .
There are insufficient clinical data to document the effect of mefloquine in malaria caused by P . ovale or P . malariae .
Note : Patients with acute P . vivax malaria , treated with mefloquine , are at high risk of relapse because mefloquine does not eliminate exoerythrocytic ( hepatic phase ) parasites .
To avoid relapse , after initial treatment of the acute infection with mefloquine , patients should subsequently be treated with an 8 - aminoquinoline derivative ( e . g . , primaquine ) .
Prevention of MalariaMefloquine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of P . falciparum and P . vivax malaria infections , including prophylaxis of chloroquine - resistant strains of P . falciparum .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to mefloquine or related compounds ( eg , quinine and quinidine ) or to any of the excipients contained in the formulation .
Mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should not be prescribed for prophylaxis in patients with active depression , a recent history of depression , generalized anxiety disorder , psychosis , or schizophrenia or other major psychiatric disorders , or with a history of convulsions .
WARNINGS In case of life - threatening , serious or overwhelming malaria infections due to P . falciparum , patients should be treated with an intravenous antimalarial drug .
Following completion of intravenous treatment , mefloquine may be given to complete the course of therapy .
Halofantrine should not be administered with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine due to the risk of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics : Elimination ) .
Ketoconazole should not be administered with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine due to the risk of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval .
Ketoconazole increases plasma concentrations and elimination half - life of mefloquine following co - administration ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics : Elimination and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Mefloquine may cause psychiatric symptoms in a number of patients , ranging from anxiety , paranoia , and depression to hallucinations and psychotic behavior .
On occasions , these symptoms have been reported to continue long after mefloquine has been stopped .
Rare cases of suicidal ideation and suicide have been reported though no relationship to drug administration has been confirmed .
To minimize the chances of these adverse events , mefloquine should not be taken for prophylaxis in patients with active depression or with a recent history of depression , generalized anxiety disorder , psychosis , or schizophrenia or other major psychiatric disorders .
Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients with a previous history of depression .
During prophylactic use , if psychiatric symptoms such as acute anxiety , depression , restlessness or confusion occur , these may be considered prodromal to a more serious event .
In these cases , the drug must be discontinued and an alternative medication should be substituted .
Concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine or quinidine may produce electrocardiographic abnormalities .
Concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine or chloroquine may increase the risk of convulsions .
PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity ReactionsHypersensitivity reactions ranging from mild cutaneous events to anaphylaxis cannot be predicted .
In patients with epilepsy , mefloquine may increase the risk of convulsions .
The drug should therefore be prescribed only for curative treatment in such patients and only if there are compelling medical reasons for its use ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System EffectsCaution should be exercised with regard to activities requiring alertness and fine motor coordination such as driving , piloting aircraft , operating machinery , and deep - sea diving , as dizziness or vertigo , a loss of balance , or other disorders of the central or peripheral nervous system have been reported during and following the use of mefloquine .
These effects may occur after therapy is discontinued due to the long half - life of the drug .
In a small number of patients , dizziness or vertigo and loss of balance have been reported to continue for months after discontinuation of the drug ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Postmarketing ) .
Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients with psychiatric disturbances because mefloquine use has been associated with emotional disturbances ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Use in Patients with Hepatic ImpairmentIn patients with impaired liver function the elimination of mefloquine may be prolonged , leading to higher plasma levels .
Long - Term UseThis drug has been administered for longer than one year .
If the drug is to be administered for a prolonged period , periodic evaluations including liver function tests should be performed .
Although retinal abnormalities seen in humans with long - term chloroquine use have not been observed with mefloquine use , long - term feeding of mefloquine to rats resulted in dose - related ocular lesions ( retinal degeneration , retinal edema and lenticular opacity at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day and higher ) ( see ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY ) .
Therefore , periodic ophthalmic examinations are recommended .
Cardiac EffectsParenteral studies in animals show that mefloquine , a myocardial depressant , possesses 20 % of the anti - fibrillatory action of quinidine and produces 50 % of the increase in the PR interval reported with quinine .
The effect of mefloquine on the compromised cardiovascular system has not been evaluated .
However , transitory and clinically silent ECG alterations have been reported during the use of mefloquine .
Alterations included sinus bradycardia , sinus arrhythmia , first degree AV - block , prolongation of the QTc interval and abnormal T waves ( see also cardiovascular effects under PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The benefits of mefloquine therapy should be weighed against the possibility of adverse effects in patients with cardiac disease .
Laboratory TestsPeriodic evaluation of hepatic function should be performed during prolonged prophylaxis .
Information for PatientsMedication Guide : As required by law , a Mefloquine Medication Guide is supplied to patients when mefloquine is dispensed .
An information wallet card is also supplied to patients when mefloquine is dispensed .
Patients should be instructed to read the Medication Guide when mefloquine is received and to carry the information wallet card with them when they are taking mefloquine .
The complete texts of the Medication Guide and information wallet card are reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised : • that malaria can be a life - threatening infection in the traveler ; • that mefloquine hydrochloride tablets are being prescribed to help prevent or treat this serious infection ; • that in a small percentage of cases , patients are unable to take this medication because of side effects , including dizziness or vertigo and loss of balance , and it may be necessary to change medications .
Although side effects of dizziness or vertigo and loss of balance are usually mild and do not cause people to stop taking the medication , in a small number of patients it has been reported that these symptoms may continue for months after discontinuation of the drug ; • that when used as prophylaxis , the first dose of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets should be taken one week prior to arrival in an endemic area ; • that if the patients experience psychiatric symptoms such as acute anxiety , depression , restlessness or confusion , these may be considered prodromal to a more serious event .
In these cases , the drug must be discontinued and an alternative medication should be substituted ; • that no chemoprophylactic regimen is 100 % effective , and protective clothing , insect repellents , and bednets are important components of malaria prophylaxis ; • to seek medical attention for any febrile illness that occurs after return from a malarious area and to inform their physician that they may have been exposed to malaria .
Drug InteractionsDrug - drug interactions with mefloquine have not been explored in detail .
There is one report of cardiopulmonary arrest , with full recovery , in a patient who was taking a beta blocker ( propranolol ) ( see PRECAUTIONS : Cardiac Effects ) .
The effects of mefloquine on the compromised cardiovascular system have not been evaluated .
The benefits of mefloquine therapy should be weighed against the possibility of adverse effects in patients with cardiac disease .
Halofantrine and Other AntimalarialsHalofantrine should not be administered with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine due to the risk of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval ( see WARNINGS ) .
Concomitant administration of mefloquine and other related antimalarial compounds ( eg , quinine , quinidine and chloroquine ) may produce electrocardiographic abnormalities and increase the risk of convulsions ( see WARNINGS ) .
If these drugs are to be used in the initial treatment of severe malaria , mefloquine administration should be delayed at least 12 hours after the last dose .
Clinically significant QTc prolongation has not been found with mefloquine alone .
Ketoconazole ( Potent Inhibitor of CYP3A4 ) Co - administration of a single 500 mg oral dose of mefloquine with 400 mg of ketoconazole once daily for 10 days in 8 healthy volunteers resulted in an increase in the mean Cmax and AUC of mefloquine by 64 % and 79 % , respectively , and an increase in the mean elimination half - life of mefloquine from 322 hours to 448 hours .
Ketoconazole should not be administered with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine due to the risk of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other Drugs that Prolong the QTc IntervalCo - administration of other drugs known to alter cardiac conduction ( eg , anti - arrhythmic or beta - adrenergic blocking agents , calcium channel blockers , antihistamines or H1 - blocking agents , tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines ) might also contribute to a prolongation of the QTc interval .
There are no data that conclusively establish whether the concomitant administration of mefloquine and the above listed agents has an effect on cardiac function .
AnticonvulsantsIn patients taking an anticonvulsant ( eg , valproic acid , carbamazepine , phenobarbital or phenytoin ) , the concomitant use of mefloquine may reduce seizure control by lowering the plasma levels of the anticonvulsant .
Therefore , patients concurrently taking antiseizure medication and mefloquine should have the blood level of their antiseizure medication monitored and the dosage adjusted appropriately ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
VaccinesWhen mefloquine is taken concurrently with oral live typhoid vaccines , attenuation of immunization cannot be excluded .
Vaccinations with attenuated live bacteria should therefore be completed at least 3 days before the first dose of mefloquine hydrochloride tablets .
Rifampin ( Potent Inducer of CYP3A4 ) Co - administration of a single 500 mg oral dose of mefloquine and 600 mg of rifampin once daily for 7 days in 7 healthy Thai volunteers resulted in a decrease in the mean Cmax and AUC of mefloquine by 19 % and 68 % , respectively , and a decrease in the mean elimination half - life of mefloquine from 305 hours to 113 hours .
Rifampin should be used cautiously in patients taking mefloquine .
Inhibitors and Inducers of CYP3A4Mefloquine does not inhibit or induce the CYP 450 enzyme system .
Thus , concomitant administration of mefloquine and substrates of the CYP 450 enzyme system is not expected to result in a drug interaction .
However , co - administration of CYP 450 inhibitors or inducers may increase or decrease mefloquine plasma concentrations , respectively .
Substrates and Inhibitors of P - glycoproteinIt has been shown in vitro that mefloquine is a substrate and an inhibitor of P - glycoprotein .
Therefore , drug - drug interactions could also occur with drugs that are substrates or are known to modify the expression of this transporter .
The clinical relevance of these interactions is not known to date .
Other Potential InteractionsNo other drug interactions are known .
Nevertheless , the effects of mefloquine on travelers receiving comedication , particularly diabetics or patients using anticoagulants , should be checked before departure .
In clinical trials , the concomitant administration of sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine did not alter the adverse reaction profile of mefloquine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityCarcinogenesisThe carcinogenic potential of mefloquine was studied in rats and mice in 2 - year feeding studies at doses of up to 30 mg / kg / day .
No treatment - related increases in tumors of any type were noted .
MutagenesisThe mutagenic potential of mefloquine was studied in a variety of assay systems including : Ames test , a host - mediated assay in mice , fluctuation tests and a mouse micronucleus assay .
Several of these assays were performed with and without prior metabolic activation .
In no instance was evidence obtained for the mutagenicity of mefloquine .
Impairment of FertilityFertility studies in rats at doses of 5 , 20 , and 50 mg / kg / day of mefloquine have demonstrated adverse effects on fertility in the male at the high dose of 50 mg / kg / day , and in the female at doses of 20 and 50 mg / kg / day .
Histopathological lesions were noted in the epididymides from male rats at doses of 20 and 50 mg / kg / day .
Administration of 250 mg / week of mefloquine ( base ) in adult males for 22 weeks failed to reveal any deleterious effects on human spermatozoa .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category CMefloquine has been demonstrated to be teratogenic in rats and mice at a dose of 100 mg / kg / day .
In rabbits , a high dose of 160 mg / kg / day was embryotoxic and teratogenic , and a dose of 80 mg / kg / day was teratogenic but not embryotoxic .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , clinical experience with mefloquine has not revealed an embryotoxic or teratogenic effect .
Mefloquine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential who are traveling to areas where malaria is endemic should be warned against becoming pregnant .
Women of childbearing potential should also be advised to practice contraception during malaria prophylaxis with mefloquine and for up to 3 months thereafter .
However , in the case of unplanned pregnancy , malaria chemoprophylaxis with mefloquine is not considered an indication for pregnancy termination .
Nursing MothersMefloquine is excreted in human milk in small amounts , the activity of which is unknown .
Based on a study in a few subjects , low concentrations ( 3 % to 4 % ) of mefloquine were excreted in human milk following a dose equivalent to 250 mg of the free base .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from mefloquine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseUse of mefloquine to treat acute , uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of mefloquine in adults with additional data from published open - label and comparative trials using mefloquine to treat malaria caused by P . falciparum in patients younger than 16 years of age .
The safety and effectiveness of mefloquine for the treatment of malaria in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
In several studies , the administration of mefloquine for the treatment of malaria was associated with early vomiting in pediatric patients .
Early vomiting was cited in some reports as a possible cause of treatment failure .
If a second dose is not tolerated , the patient should be monitored closely and alternative malaria treatment considered if improvement is not observed within a reasonable period of time ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of mefloquine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Since electrocardiographic abnormalities have been observed in individuals treated with mefloquine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) and underlying cardiac disease is more prevalent in elderly than in younger patients , the benefits of mefloquine therapy should be weighed against the possibility of adverse cardiac effects in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ClinicalAt the doses used for treatment of acute malaria infections , the symptoms possibly attributable to drug administration cannot be distinguished from those symptoms usually attributable to the disease itself .
Among subjects who received mefloquine for prophylaxis of malaria , the most frequently observed adverse experience was vomiting ( 3 % ) .
Dizziness , syncope , extrasystoles and other complaints affecting less than 1 % were also reported .
Among subjects who received mefloquine for treatment , the most frequently observed adverse experiences included : dizziness , myalgia , nausea , fever , headache , vomiting , chills , diarrhea , skin rash , abdominal pain , fatigue , loss of appetite , and tinnitus .
Those side effects occurring in less than 1 % included bradycardia , hair loss , emotional problems , pruritus , asthenia , transient emotional disturbances and telogen effluvium ( loss of resting hair ) .
Seizures have also been reported .
Two serious adverse reactions were cardiopulmonary arrest in one patient shortly after ingesting a single prophylactic dose of mefloquine while concomitantly using propranolol ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , and encephalopathy of unknown etiology during prophylactic mefloquine administration .
The relationship of encephalopathy to drug administration could not be clearly established .
PostmarketingPostmarketing surveillance indicates that the same kind of adverse experiences are reported during prophylaxis , as well as acute treatment .
Because these experiences are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to mefloquine exposure .
The most frequently reported adverse events are nausea , vomiting , loose stools or diarrhea , abdominal pain , dizziness or vertigo , loss of balance , and neuropsychiatric events such as headache , somnolence , and sleep disorders ( insomnia , abnormal dreams ) .
These are usually mild and may decrease despite continued use .
In a small number of patients it has been reported that dizziness or vertigo and loss of balance may continue for months after discontinuation of the drug .
Occasionally , more severe neuropsychiatric disorders have been reported such as : sensory and motor neuropathies ( including paresthesia , tremor and ataxia ) , convulsions , agitation or restlessness , anxiety , depression , mood swings , panic attacks , memory impairment , confusion , hallucinations , aggression , psychotic or paranoid reactions and encephalopathy .
Rare cases of suicidal ideation and suicide have been reported though no relationship to drug administration has been confirmed .
Other less frequently reported adverse events include : Cardiovascular Disorderscirculatory disturbances ( hypotension , hypertension , flushing , syncope ) , chest pain , tachycardia or palpitation , bradycardia , irregular heart rate , extrasystoles , A - V block , and other transient cardiac conduction alterations .
Skin Disordersrash , exanthema , erythema , urticaria , pruritus , edema , hair loss , erythema multiforme , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Musculoskeletal Disordersmuscle weakness , muscle cramps , myalgia , and arthralgia .
Respiratory Disordersdyspnea , pneumonitis of possible allergic etiology Other Symptomsvisual disturbances , vestibular disorders including tinnitus and hearing impairment , asthenia , malaise , fatigue , fever , hyperhidrosis , chills , dyspepsia and loss of appetite .
LaboratoryThe most frequently observed laboratory alterations which could be possibly attributable to drug administration were decreased hematocrit , transient elevation of transaminases , leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
These alterations were observed in patients with acute malaria who received treatment doses of the drug and were attributed to the disease itself .
During prophylactic administration of mefloquine to indigenous populations in malaria - endemic areas , the following occasional alterations in laboratory values were observed : transient elevation of transaminases , leukocytosis or thrombocytopenia .
Because of the long half - life of mefloquine , adverse reactions to mefloquine may occur or persist up to several weeks after discontinuation of the drug .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms and SignsIn cases of overdosage with mefloquine , the symptoms mentioned under ADVERSE REACTIONS may be more pronounced .
TreatmentPatients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care following mefloquine overdose .
There are no specific antidotes .
Monitor cardiac function ( if possible by ECG ) and neuropsychiatric status for at least 24 hours .
Provide symptomatic and intensive supportive treatment as required , particularly for cardiovascular disturbances .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Adult PatientsTreatment of mild to moderate malaria in adults caused by P . vivax or mefloquine - susceptible strains of P . falciparumFive tablets ( 1250 mg ) mefloquine hydrochloride to be given as a single oral dose .
The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz ( 240 mL ) of water .
If a full - treatment course with mefloquine does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours , mefloquine should not be used for retreatment .
An alternative therapy should be used .
Similarly , if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed , mefloquine should not be used for curative treatment .
Note : Patients with acute P . vivax malaria , treated with mefloquine , are at high risk of relapse because mefloquine does not eliminate exoerythrocytic ( hepatic phase ) parasites .
To avoid relapse after initial treatment of the acute infection with mefloquine , patients should subsequently be treated with an 8 - aminoquinoline derivative ( eg , primaquine ) .
Malaria ProphylaxisOne 250 mg mefloquine hydrochloride tablet once weekly .
Prophylactic drug administration should begin 1 week before arrival in an endemic area .
Subsequent weekly doses should be taken regularly , always on the same day of each week , preferably after the main meal .
To reduce the risk of malaria after leaving an endemic area , prophylaxis must be continued for 4 additional weeks to ensure suppressive blood levels of the drug when merozoites emerge from the liver .
Tablets should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz ( 240 mL ) of water .
In certain cases , eg , when a traveler is taking other medication , it may be desirable to start prophylaxis 2 to 3 weeks prior to departure , in order to ensure that the combination of drugs is well tolerated ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
When prophylaxis with mefloquine fails , physicians should carefully evaluate which antimalarial to use for therapy .
Pediatric PatientsTreatment of mild to moderate malaria in pediatric patients caused by mefloquine - susceptible strains of P . falciparumTwenty ( 20 ) to 25 mg / kg body weight .
Splitting the total therapeutic dose into 2 doses taken 6 to 8 hours apart may reduce the occurrence or severity of adverse effects .
Experience with mefloquine in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg is limited .
The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with ample water .
The tablets may be crushed and suspended in a small amount of water , milk or other beverage for administration to small children and other persons unable to swallow them whole .
If a full - treatment course with mefloquine does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours , mefloquine should not be used for retreatment .
An alternative therapy should be used .
Similarly , if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed , mefloquine should not be used for curative treatment .
In pediatric patients , the administration of mefloquine for the treatment of malaria has been associated with early vomiting .
In some cases , early vomiting has been cited as a possible cause of treatment failure ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
If a significant loss of drug product is observed or suspected because of vomiting , a second full dose of mefloquine should be administered to patients who vomit less than 30 minutes after receiving the drug .
If vomiting occurs 30 to 60 minutes after a dose , an additional half - dose should be given .
If vomiting recurs , the patient should be monitored closely and alternative malaria treatment considered if improvement is not observed within a reasonable period of time .
The safety and effectiveness of mefloquine to treat malaria in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
Malaria ProphylaxisThe recommended prophylactic dose of mefloquine is approximately 5 mg / kg body weight once weekly .
One 250 mg mefloquine hydrochloride tablet should be taken once weekly in pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg .
In pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg , the weekly dose decreases in proportion to body weight : 30 to 45 kg : 3 / 4 tablet 20 to 30 kg : 1 / 2 tablet Experience with mefloquine in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg is limited .
HOW SUPPLIED Mefloquine Hydrochloride tablets 250 mg are round , white to off white tablets , scored , debossed GP 118 on one side and plain on the reverse side , and are supplied as follows : NDC 54868 - 5434 - 0 bottles of 6 tablets NDC 54868 - 5434 - 1 bottles of 8 tablets Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Ocular lesions were observed in rats fed mefloquine daily for 2 years .
All surviving rats given 30 mg / kg / day had ocular lesions in both eyes characterized by retinal degeneration , opacity of the lens , and retinal edema .
Similar but less severe lesions were observed in 80 % of female and 22 % of male rats fed 12 . 5 mg / kg / day for 2 years .
At doses of 5 mg / kg / day , only corneal lesions were observed .
They occurred in 9 % of rats studied .
MEDICATION GUIDE Mefloquine Hydrochloride TabletsRead this entire Medication Guide before you start taking mefloquine and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about mefloquine ?
Your doctor or pharmacist will give you an Information Wallet Card along with this Medication Guide .
It has important information about mefloquine and should be carried with you at all times while you take mefloquine .
Mefloquine can cause serious mental problems .
• Some people who take mefloquine have sudden serious mental problems , including : • severe anxiety • paranoia ( feelings of mistrust towards others ) • hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not there ) • depression • feeling restless • unusual behavior • feeling confused In some patients these serious side effects can go on after Mefloquine is stopped .
• Some people who take mefloquine think about suicide ( putting an end to their life ) .
Some people who were taking mefloquine committed suicide .
It is not known whether mefloquine was responsible for those suicides .
If you have any of these serious mental problems , or you develop other serious side effects or mental problems , you should call your doctor right away as it may be necessary to stop taking mefloquine and use another medicine to prevent malaria .
You need to take malaria prevention medicine before you travel to a malaria area , while you are in a malaria area , and after you return from a malaria area .
If you are told by a doctor to stop taking mefloquine because of the side effects or for other reasons , you will need to take another malaria medicine .
If you do not have access to a doctor or to another medicine and have to stop taking mefloquine , leave the malaria area and contact a doctor as soon as possible because leaving the malaria area may not protect you from getting malaria .
You will still need to take a malaria prevention medicine for another 4 weeks .
• Do not take halofantrine ( used to treat malaria ) or ketoconazole ( used for fungal infections ) with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of your last dose of mefloquine .
You may have serious heart problems that can lead to death .
Do not take quinine ( Qualaquin ) or quinidine ( used to treat malaria or irregular heart beat ) with mefloquine .
You may have serious heart problems .
• Do not take quinine ( Qualaquin ) or chloroquine ( Aralen ) ( used to treat malaria ) with mefloquine .
You may have a greater risk for convulsions ( seizures ) .
What is Mefloquine ?
Mefloquine is a prescription medicine used to prevent and treat malaria .
Malaria can be a life - threatening infection .
Mefloquine does not work for all types of malaria .
It is not known if mefloquine is safe and effective in children under 6 months old for the treatment of malaria .
It is not known how well mefloquine works to prevent malaria in infants weighing less than 44 lbs ( 20 kg ) .
Who should not take Mefloquine ?
Do not take Mefloquine if you have : • depression or had depression recently • had recent mental problems , including anxiety disorder , schizophrenia , or psychosis ( losing touch with reality ) • seizures or had seizures ( epilepsy or convulsions ) • an allergy to quinine , quinidine , mefloquine or any ingredients in mefloquine .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in mefloquine .
Talk to your doctor before you take mefloquine if you have any of the conditions listed above .
What should I tell my doctor before taking mefloquine ?
Before taking mefloquine , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you have : • heart disease • liver problems • seizures or epilepsy • diabetes • blood clotting problems or take blood thinner medicines ( anticoagulants ) • mental problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if mefloquine will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to you doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• use birth control while you take mefloquine and for 3 months after you stop mefloquine .
If you have an unplanned pregnancy , talk to your doctor right away .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Mefloquine can pass through your milk and may harm your baby .
Ask your doctor whether you will need to stop breast - feeding or use another medicine .
After leaving a malaria area , if you have a fever contact your doctor right away .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Mefloquine and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • ketoconazole used to treat fungal infections • halofantrine , quinine ( Qualaquin ) , quinidine , chloroquine ( Aralen ) or other medicines used to treat malaria • anti - arrhythmic medicines , beta - adrenergic blocking medicines and calcium channel blockers used to treat heart problems or high blood pressure • antihistamines or H1 - blocking agents used to treat allergies • tricyclic antidepressants used to treat depression • phenothiazines used to treat mental problems • anticonvulsants used to treat seizures • vaccines containing live bacteria .
Your doctor may want you to finish receiving your vaccines at least 3 days before you start mefloquine .
• rifampin and rifampin - containing products ( Rifadin , Rifamate , Rifater , Rimactane ) used to treat infections Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
How should I take Mefloquine ?
• Take mefloquine exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
Your doctor will tell you how many mefloquine hydrochloride tablets to take and when to take them .
• You will start taking mefloquine to prevent malaria between 1 to 3 weeks before you travel to a malaria area .
• Take mefloquine just after eating your main meal and with at least one cup ( 8 ounces ) of water .
• Do not take mefloquine on an empty stomach .
• If you vomit after taking mefloquine , call your healthcare provider to see if you should take another dose .
• Continue taking mefloquine for 4 weeks after returning from a malaria area .
• Mefloquine tablets may be crushed and mixed with a small amount of water , milk or other beverage for children or other people unable to swallow mefloquine whole .
Your doctor will tell you the correct dose for your child based on your child ’ s weight .
• If you take Mefloquine for a year or longer , your doctor should check your • eyes , especially if you have trouble seeing while you take mefloquine • liver function to see if there has been damage to your liver • Use protective clothing , insect repellents , and bednets to protect you from being bitten by mosquitoes .
Medicine alone does not always stop you from catching malaria from mosquito bites .
What should I avoid while taking mefloquine ?
Avoid activities such as driving a car or using heavy machinery or other activities needing alertness and careful movements ( fine motor coordination ) until you know how mefloquine affects you .
You may feel dizzy or lose your balance .
This could happen for months after you stop taking mefloquine .
See “ What are the possible side effects of mefloquine ? ”
What are the possible side effects of mefloquine ?
Also see “ What is the most important information I should know about mefloquine ? ”
Mefloquine may cause serious side effects , including : • convulsions ( seizures ) • liver problems • heart problems The most common side effects of mefloquine include : • nausea • vomiting • diarrhea • abdominal pain • dizziness or loss of balance ( vertigo ) , which may continue for months after mefloquine is stopped • headache • sleeping problems ( sleepiness , unable to sleep , bad dreams ) The most common side effects in people who take mefloquine for treatment include : • muscle pain • fever • chills • skin rash • fatigue • loss of appetite • ringing in the ears • irregular heart beat Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of mefloquine .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store mefloquine ?
• Store mefloquine between 59ºF to 86ºF ( 15ºC to 30ºC ) • Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
Keep mefloquine and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of mefloquine .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use mefloquine for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give mefloquine to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about mefloquine .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about mefloquine that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in mefloquine ?
Active ingredients : mefloquine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch and talc .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
10 - 2009 M 7271 Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Information Wallet Card : Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets It is important that you read the entire Medication Guide for additional information on Mefloquine .
Carry this wallet card with you when you are taking Mefloquine .
You need to take malaria prevention medicine before you travel to a malaria area , while you are in a malaria area , and after you return from a malaria area .
Mefloquine can cause serious mental problems in some people .
If you take mefloquine and you have sudden signs of serious mental problems ( such as : severe anxiety , feelings of mistrust towards others , seeing or hearing things that are not there , depression , feeling restless , unusual behavior or feeling confused ) , you should contact a doctor right away as it may be necessary to stop taking mefloquine and take different medicine to prevent malaria .
Other side effects from Mefloquine may include : convulsions , liver problems , and heart problems .
The most common side effects of mefloquine include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal pain , dizziness or loss of balance ( vertigo ) which may continue for months after mefloquine is stopped , headache , and sleeping problems ( sleepiness , unable to sleep , bad dreams ) .
While you take Mefloquine , do not take : • Halofantrine ( used to treat malaria ) • Ketoconazole ( used for fungal infections ) • Quinine ( Qualaquin ) or quinidine ( used to treat malaria or irregular heart beat ) • Chloroquine ( Aralen ) ( used to treat malaria ) Avoid activities such as driving a car or using heavy machinery or other activities needing alertness and careful movements ( fine motor coordination ) until you know how mefloquine affects you .
Other medicines are approved in the United States for malaria prevention .
However , not all malaria medicines work equally well in different malaria areas .
Before you travel , talk to your doctor about your travel plans .
If you have any serious side effects , and cannot get another medicine , leave the malaria area and contact a doctor as soon as possible because leaving the malaria area may not protect you from getting malaria .
You will still need to take a malaria prevention medicine .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
10 - 2009 M 7271 Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Mefloquine Hydrochloride 250 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
