Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan polistirex equivalent to 30 mg dextromethorphan hydrobromide Purpose Cough suppressant Uses temporarily relieves • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Allergy Alert : Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • chronic cough that lasts as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • • side effects occur .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
• • cough lasts more than 7 days , cough comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • shake bottle well before use • • measure only with dosing cup provided • • do not use dosing cup with other products • • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 mL every 12 hours , not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 12 hours , not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL every 12 hours , not to exceed 5 mL in 24 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Other information • • each 5 mL contains : sodium 5 mg • • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • • dosing cup provided Inactive ingredients artificial grape flavor , D & C Red # 30 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue # 1 aluminum lake , glycerin , high fructose corn syrup , methylparaben , polysorbate 80 , polyvinyl acetate , povidone , propylparaben , purified water , sodium metabisulfite , sodium polystyrene sulfonate , sucrose , tartaric acid , tragacanth gum , triacetin , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Day or Night Cough DM Dextromethorphan Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension Cough Suppressant Grape Flavored Liquid 12 Hour Cough Relief Alcohol - Free Dosing Cup Included COMPARE TO DELSYM ® active ingredient 100 % Money Back Guarantee Contains Sodium Metabisulfite , a Sulfite That May Cause Allergic - Type Reactions 3 FL OZ ( 89 mL ) DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR PRINTED FOIL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
