Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Clotrimazole USP 2 % ( 100 mg in each applicatorful ) Vaginal Antifungal Clotrimazole USP 2 % ( external cream ) Vaginal Antifungal Use • treats vaginal yeast infections • relieves external itching and irritation due to a vaginal yeast infection Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS When using this product • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• do not have vaginal intercourse • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or a foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • before using this product read the enclosed educational brochure for complete directions and information • adults and children 12 years of age and over : • vaginal cream : insert one applicatorful of cream into the vagina at bedtime for 3 days in a row .
Throw applicator away after use .
• external cream : use the same tube of cream if you have itching and irritation on the skin outside the vagina .
Squeeze a small amount of cream onto your fingertip .
Apply to itchy , irritated skin outside the vagina .
Use 2 times daily for up to 7 days as needed .
• children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • To open : unscrew cap , use pointed end on cap to puncture seal • do not use if carton is opened • safety sealed : the tube opening should be sealed .
If the seal has been punctured or is not visible , do not use the product .
• store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • see flap of carton or crimp of tube for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , 2 - octyldodecanol , polysorbate - 60 , purified water , and sorbitan monostearate Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free , 1 - 888 - 827 - 6222 , for our 24 hour automated response system .
Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 EDUCATIONAL BROCHURE Read This Before Using Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream USP ( 2 % ) Vaginal Antifungal Clotrimazole USP 2 % ( 100 mg in each applicatorful ) .
3 - day treatment of vaginal yeast infections .
Uses : • For the treatment of vaginal yeast infections .
• Relieves external itching and irritation due to a vaginal yeast infection .
If you have symptoms such as vaginal itching , burning , or discharge , and if at some time in the past your doctor has told you that these symptoms were due to a vaginal yeast infection , then Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream should work for you .
If , however , you have never had these symptoms or a vaginal yeast infection before , you should see your doctor before using this product .
What is a Vaginal Yeast Infection ?
A yeast infection is a common type of vaginal infection .
Your doctor may call it candidiasis .
This condition is caused by an organism called Candida , which is a type of yeast .
Healthy women usually have this yeast on the skin , in the mouth , in the digestive tract , and in the vagina .
At times , the yeast can grow very quickly .
In fact , the infection is sometimes called yeast ( Candida ) " overgrowth . "
Some women may have a yeast infection on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) associated with the vaginal infection .
A yeast infection can occur at any age .
It is most common during the childbearing years .
Women who are pregnant or diabetic , taking antibiotics , birth control pills or steroids , or who have a weakened immune system are more likely to get repeated yeast infections .
Various medical conditions can damage the body ' s normal defenses against infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immuno - deficiency virus ( HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
The HIV virus causes the body to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections .
Therefore , women with HIV infection may have frequent vaginal yeast infections that do not clear up easily with proper treatment .
If you may have been exposed to HIV and are experiencing repeated vaginal yeast infections , you should see your doctor right away .
For additional information on HIV infection , please contact your doctor or the CDC National AIDS HOT - LINE .
The CDC phone numbers are : 1 - 800 - CDC - INFO ( 1 - 800 - 232 - 4636 ) for English or Spanish or 1 - 888 - 232 - 6348 ( hearing impaired , TDD / TTY ) .
Symptoms of a Vaginal Yeast Infection There are many symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection .
They can include : • Vaginal itching ( ranging from mild to severe ) .
• A clumpy , vaginal discharge that may look like cottage cheese .
• Vaginal soreness , irritation , or burning .
• Rash or redness on the skin outside the vagina ( vulvar irritation ) .
Note : Vaginal discharge that is different from above , for example , a yellow / green discharge or a foul - smelling discharge may mean that you have a different infection .
If this is the case , you should talk to your doctor before using Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream .
For Best Results 1 .
Be sure to use this product for the full 3 days , even if your symptoms go away sooner .
2 .
Use one applicatorful of Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream at bedtime for three days in a row , even during your menstrual period .
3 .
Wear cotton underwear .
4 .
If your partner has itching , redness or discomfort of his penis , he should consult his doctor .
He should tell the doctor that you are treating yourself for a vaginal yeast infection .
5 .
Dry the outside vaginal area thoroughly after a shower , bath or swim .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp clothes as soon as possible .
A dry area is less likely to lead to the growth of yeast .
6 .
Wipe from front to rear after a bowel movement or urination .
7 .
Do not douche unless your doctor tells you to do so .
Douching may wash the product out of the vagina .
8 .
Try not to scratch the skin outside the vagina .
Scratching can cause more irritation and can spread the infection .
9 .
Discuss with your doctor any drugs you are now taking .
You are more likely to get a vaginal yeast infection with certain drugs .
10 .
Do not have vaginal intercourse while using this product .
11 .
When using this product , condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
If you have a Question Questions of a medical nature should be taken up with your doctor .
If you have any other questions or need information on this product call toll free 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 .
Active Ingredient : Clotrimazole USP , 2 % ( 100 mg in each applicatorful ) Clotrimazole USP , 2 % ( external cream ) Inactive Ingredients : Benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , 2 - octyldodecanol , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sorbitan monostearate .
Storage Store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
See end panel of carton and end of tube for lot number and expiration date .
Warnings For vaginal use only .
Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS When using this product • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• do not have vaginal intercourse • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • if you do not get complete relief , ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Safety sealed : the tube opening should be sealed .
If the seal has been punctured or is not visible , do not use the product .
How to use Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream with 3 Disposable Applicators Directions for Use Use the cream at bedtime for 3 days in a row .
Read the full directions below before using .
1 .
To open the tube , unscrew the cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Press the sharp point of the cap into the sealed end of the tube .
Push down firmly until the seal is broken .
( see picture ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Attach the applicator to the tube of cream by placing end of the applicator firmly onto tube of cream .
( see picture ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Gently squeeze opposite end of tube , forcing cream into barrel of applicator .
The plunger will stop moving outward when the barrel is full .
Separate the applicator from the tube .
After each use , replace cap and roll up the tube from the bottom .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Hold the barrel as shown in the picture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
The Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream applicator is inserted into the vagina in much the same way as a tampon .
Gently insert the applicator into the vagina as far back as it will go comfortably .
This can be done while lying on your back with your knees bent ( as shown in the picture ) , or while standing with your feet apart and your knees bent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 .
With one hand holding the barrel , use the other hand to push the plunger into the barrel as far as it will go .
Remove the applicator from the vagina .
7 .
Throw the applicator away after each use .
Do not flush down the toilet .
8 .
Lie down as soon as possible to keep the cream from leaking out .
9 .
Repeat steps 2 through 8 before bedtime for the next 2 days .
To protect your clothing from leakage or discharge , you may want to use deodorant - free pads or panty shields while you are using Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream .
Do not use tampons , douches , or spermicides or other vaginal products until after you have completed the treatment and your symptoms are gone .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 LPK - 3251 - 4 0516 - 4 161 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 21 g Tube Carton Cures Most Vaginal Yeast Infections 3 Day Treatment 3 Day Vaginal Cream Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream USP ( 2 % ) Vaginal Antifungal One 21 g ( 0 . 74 oz ) Tube Of Clotrimazole Vaginal Cream USP ( 2 % ) & 3 Disposable Applicators Educational Brochure Enclosed [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
