DESCRIPTION Each suppository for rectal administration contains 25 mg hydrocortisone acetate USP in a hydrogenated cocoglyceride base .
Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In normal subjects , about 26 percent of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of the anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY C In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Until adequate studies in pregnant or lactating women have been conducted , this drug should be used during pregnancy or by nursing mothers only when clearly needed and when the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with corticosteroid suppositories : • 1 .
Burning • 2 .
Itching • 3 .
Irritation • 4 .
Dryness • 5 .
Folliculitis • 6 .
Hypopigmentation • 7 .
Allergic Contact Dermatitis • 8 .
Secondary Infection DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug abuse and dependence have not been reported in patients treated with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual dosage : One suppository in the rectum morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times daily ; or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , recommended therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to response .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are easy to open , color coded and available in cartons of : 12 ' s NDC 76413 - 132 - 12 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured By Perrigo ® Minneapolis , MN 55427 ( 01 - 12 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 Packet Box Label CommUnityCare Federally Qualified Health Centers HYDROCORTISONE SUPP . 25 MG # 12 Date : Name : Dr . USE AS DIRECTED BY DOCTOR .
123456 1 / 1 / 01 Hydrocortisone Supp .
25 mg # 12 NDC 76413 - 132 - 12 Batch : 123456 Lot : 123456 Exp : 1 / 1 / 01 PERRIGO Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any other person than the patient for whom prescribed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
