Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic Uses For the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain , associated with : • Sore mouth and throat • Ulcers • Minor dental procedures • Needle punctures • Minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Warnings For external use only Methemoglobinemia warning Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to any “ caine ” anesthetics , such as benzocaine , butacaine , procaine or tetracaine .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea , or vomiting consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product avoid contact with eyes If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions do not exceed recommended dosage .
• adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area .
Gargle , swish around in the mouth , or allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by dentist or doctor .
• children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of the product .
• children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information Store at 59 ° to 86º F ( 15º to 30º C ) Inactive ingredients Blue 1 * , flavor , PEG - 8 , PEG - 75 , Red 3 * , Red 33 * , Red 40 * , sodium saccharin , Yellow 10 * * contains one or more of these ingredients .
Questions or comments ?
Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 835 - 0885 or 1 - 847 - 677 - 5500 M - F 8 : 00 a . m . – 4 : 30 p . m . CST .
Visit www . dentaltech . com Principal Display Panel DENTAL TECHNOLOGIES www . dentaltech . com ALPHA - CAINE TOPICAL ANESTHETIC GEL DENTAL TECHNOLOGIES , INC .
Lincolnwood , IL 60712 Made in U . S . A . DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
20 % Benzocaine Oral Anesthetic 1 oz .
( 30 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
