Drug Facts Active Ingredient Minoxidil USP 5 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) Warnings For external use only For use by men only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil Topical Solution , 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • prime the sprayer by holding the bottle upright and pump the sprayer 5 times to ensure delivery of full spray .
Do not inhale mist .
• apply 1 ml with sprayer ( 6 sprays ) 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other Information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with Minoxidil Topical Solution , 5 % • in clinical studies with mostly white men age 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , Minoxidil Topical Solution , 5 % for men provided more hair regrowth than Minoxidil Topical Solution , 2 % • store at controlled room temperature 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or Comments ?
Call your health professional or Pierre Fabre at 1 - 800 - 459 - 8663 .
Monday – Friday : 9 : 00 AM – 5 : 00 PM ( EST ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Three - 60 mL Bottles Carton NDC 64760 - 602 - 03 DUCRAY LABORATOIRES DERMATOLOGIQUES MEN ’ S alopexy minoxidil topical solution USP , 5 % hair regrowth treatment EXTRA STRENGTH FOR MEN Reactivates Hair Follicles To Stimulate Regrowth Clinically Proven To Help Regrow Hair Topical Solution Unscented NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN Three Month Supply Three - 60 mL ( 2 FL .
OZ . )
Bottles [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
