WARNING ; LIMITATIONS OF USE , GASTROINTESTINAL , BLEEDING , CARDIOVASCULAR , and RENAL RISK Limitations of Use SPRIX ( ketorolac tromethamine ) , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , is indicated for short - term ( up to 5 days in adults ) management of moderate to moderately severe pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level .
Do not exceed a total combined duration of use of SPRIX and other ketorolac formulations ( IM / IV or oral ) of 5 days [ see Dosage and Administration , ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
SPRIX is not indicated for use in pediatric patients and it is not indicated for minor or chronic painful conditions .
Gastrointestinal Risk Ketorolac tromethamine , including SPRIX , can cause peptic ulcers , gastrointestinal bleeding and / or perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Therefore , SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation , and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Bleeding Risk Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , contraindicated in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , patients with hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis and those at high risk of bleeding [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cardiovascular Risk NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
SPRIX Nasal spray is contraindicated for treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Renal Risk SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with advanced renal impairment and in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : LIMITATIONS OF USE , GASTROINTESTINAL , BLEEDING , CARDIOVASCULAR , and RENAL RISK See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Limitations of Use – The total duration of use of SPRIX and other ketorolac formulations should not exceed 5 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) Risk – Ketorolac can cause peptic ulcers , GI bleeding , and / or perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
SPRIX is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with peptic ulcer disease or history of GI bleeding .
( 4 ) • Bleeding Risk – SPRIX inhibits platelet function and is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis , or high risk of bleeding .
( 4 ) • Cardiovascular ( CV ) Risk – NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
( 5 . 6 ) SPRIX is CONTRAINDICATED for treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
( 4 ) • Renal risk – SPRIX is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with advanced renal impairment and in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SPRIX is indicated in adult patients for the short term ( up to 5 days ) management of moderate to moderately severe pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level .
SPRIX is indicated in adult patients for the short term ( up to 5 days ) management of moderate to moderately severe pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For adult patients < 65 years of age : 31 . 5 mg ( one 15 . 75 mg spray in each nostril ) every 6 to 8 hours .
The maximum daily dose is 126 mg .
( 2 . 2 ) • For patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired patients , and patients less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) : 15 . 75 mg ( one 15 . 75 mg spray in only one nostril ) every 6 to 8 hours .
The maximum daily dose is 63 mg .
( 2 . 3 ) • SPRIX has not been shown to be safe and effective in pediatric patients .
( 2 . 1 ) • SPRIX nasal spray should be discarded within 24 hours of taking the first dose , even if the bottle still contains some medication .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Limitations of Use The total duration of use of SPRIX alone or sequentially with other formulations of ketorolac ( IM / IV or oral ) must not exceed 5 days because of the potential for increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Treat patients for the shortest duration possible , and do not exceed 5 days of therapy with SPRIX .
Do not use SPRIX concomitantly with other formulations of ketorolac or other NSAIDs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
SPRIX has not been shown to be safe and effective in pediatric patients 17 years of age and younger .
2 . 2 Adult Patients < 65 Years of Age The recommended dose is 31 . 5 mg SPRIX ( one 15 . 75 mg spray in each nostril ) every 6 to 8 hours .
The maximum daily dose is 126 mg ( four doses ) .
2 . 3 Reduced Doses for Special Populations For patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired patients , and adult patients less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) , the recommended dose is 15 . 75 mg SPRIX ( one 15 . 75 mg spray in only one nostril ) every 6 to 8 hours .
The maximum daily dose is 63 mg ( four doses ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 4 Discard Used SPRIX Bottle after 24 Hours Do not use any single SPRIX bottle for more than one day as it will not deliver the intended dose after 24 hours .
Therefore , the bottle must be discarded no more than 24 hours after taking the first dose , even if the bottle still contains some liquid .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Nasal spray : 15 . 75 mg of ketorolac tromethamine in each 100 μL spray .
Each 1 . 7 g bottle contains 8 sprays .
Nasal spray : 15 . 75 mg of ketorolac tromethamine in each 100 μL spray .
Each 1 . 7 g bottle contains 8 sprays .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 11 ) ] • Use in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation , and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Use in patients with a history of asthma , urticaria , or other allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 11 ) ] • Use as a prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Use during the perioperative period in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Use in patients with advanced renal disease or patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) ] • Use in labor and delivery .
Through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , ketorolac may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 ) ] • Use in nursing mothers because of the potential adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates • Use in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis , or those for whom hemostasis is critical [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 10 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to aspirin or to other NSAIDs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 11 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid ( EDTA ) [ see Description ( 11 ) ] • Concomitant use with probenecid [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] • Concomitant use with pentoxifylline [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 10 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to ketorolac , aspirin , other NSAIDs , or EDTA ( 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 11 ) • Use in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , recent GI bleeding or perforation , or a history of peptic ulcers or GI bleeding ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Use in patients with a history of asthma , urticaria , or other allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 11 ) • Use as a prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) • Use during the perioperative period in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Use in patients with advanced renal disease or patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( 4 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Use in labor and delivery ( 4 , 5 . 8 ) • Use in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , patients with hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis , and those at high risk of bleeding ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • SPRIX should not be used concomitantly with IM / IV or oral ketorolac , aspirin , or other NSAIDs .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ketorolac can cause serious GI adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation .
SPRIX should be prescribed with caution in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious GI events .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation and may cause bleeding complications .
SPRIX should be used with caution in patients who have coagulation disorders or are on therapy that affects hemostasis .
Do not use SPRIX in patients for whom hemostasis is critical .
( 4 , 5 . 3 ) • Ketorolac can cause renal injury .
SPRIX should not be used in patients with advanced renal disease or patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion , and should be used with caution in patients taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors .
( 4 , 5 . 4 , 12 . 4 ) • Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergic reactions to aspirin or NSAIDs .
SPRIX should be discontinued immediately in patients with allergic reactions .
( 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 11 ) • Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid retention and edema have been observed in patients taking NSAIDs .
SPRIX should be used with caution in patients with cardiac decompensation or similar conditions .
( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) • NSAIDs can cause serious dermatologic adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis , which can be fatal .
SPRIX should be discontinued immediately in patients with skin reactions .
( 4 , 5 . 7 ) • During pregnancy , use of SPRIX beyond 30 weeks gestation can cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus , resulting in fetal harm .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Limitations of Use The total duration of use of SPRIX alone or sequentially with other forms of ketorolac is not to exceed 5 days .
SPRIX must not be used concomitantly with other forms of ketorolac or other NSAIDs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal ( GI ) Effects - Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and / or GI bleeding [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Ketorolac tromethamine can cause serious GI adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach , small intestine , or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with ketorolac .
Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic .
Minor upper GI problems , such as dyspepsia , are common and may also occur at any time during NSAID therapy .
The incidence and severity of GI complications increases with increasing dose of , and duration of treatment with , ketorolac .
Even short - term therapy is not without risk .
In addition to past history of ulcer disease , other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients , and therefore , special care should be taken in treating this population .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration .
Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy , and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected .
This should include discontinuation of SPRIX until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out .
For high risk patients , consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs .
Use great care when giving SPRIX to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease ( ulcerative colitis , Crohn ' s disease ) as their condition may be exacerbated .
5 . 3 Hematological Effects Because prostaglandins play an important role in hemostasis and NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation as well , use caution with use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients who have coagulation disorders , and monitor these patients carefully .
The effects of NSAIDs other than aspirin on platelet function are reversible .
Patients on therapeutic doses of anticoagulants ( e . g . , heparin or dicumarol derivatives ) have an increased risk of bleeding complications if given ketorolac tromethamine concurrently ; therefore , administer such concomitant therapy only with extreme caution .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis , including prophylactic low dose heparin ( 2500 to 5000 units q12h ) , warfarin and dextrans , has not been studied extensively , but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding .
Until data from such studies are available , carefully weigh the benefits against the risks and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only with extreme caution .
Monitor patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis closely .
In clinical trials , serious adverse events related to bleeding were more common in patients treated with SPRIX than placebo .
In clinical trials and in postmarketing experience with ketorolac IV and IM dosing , postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with peri - operative use .
Therefore , use SPRIX with caution in the postoperative setting when hemostasis is critical .
Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs .
This may be due to fluid retention , occult or gross GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
Do not use SPRIX in patients for whom hemostasis is critical [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 10 ) ] .
5 . 4 Renal Effects Ketorolac and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys .
Patients with reduced creatinine clearance will have diminished clearance of the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with advanced renal impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
In patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion , administration of an NSAID may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Decreased intravascular volume such as when oral intake is poor increases the risks of renal toxicity with NSAIDs .
Therefore , patients treated with SPRIX should be adequately hydrated .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
Use SPRIX with caution in patients with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors , and the elderly .
Assess the risks and benefits prior to giving SPRIX to these patients , and follow these patients closely during SPRIX therapy .
Long - term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury such as interstitial nephritis and nephrotic syndrome .
5 . 5 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergic reactions to aspirin or NSAIDs and in patients without known prior exposure to ketorolac .
SPRIX should be discontinued immediately in patients with allergic reactions .
SPRIX should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs .
5 . 6 Cardiovascular Effects • Cardiovascular ( CV ) Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events , myocardial infarction and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , both COX - 2 selective and nonselective , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Patients should be informed about the signs and / or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID increases the risk of serious GI events .
Two large , controlled clinical trials of a COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 - 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 , 7 . 7 ) ] .
• Hypertension NSAIDs can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention , edema , retention of NaCl , oliguria , and elevations of serum urea nitrogen and creatinine have been reported in clinical trials with ketorolac .
Therefore , only use SPRIX very cautiously in patients with cardiac decompensation or similar conditions .
5 . 7 Skin Reactions NSAIDs , including ketorolac , can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
These serious events may occur without warning .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations , and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation , SPRIX can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman due to an increased risk of premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
If SPRIX is used at or after 30 weeks gestation , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 9 Hepatic Effects Use SPRIX with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or a history of liver disease .
Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15 % of patients taking NSAIDs , including ketorolac .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress , may remain unchanged , or may be transient with continuing therapy .
Notable elevations of ALT or AST ( approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal ) have been reported in approximately 1 % of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs .
In addition , rare cases of severe hepatic reactions , including jaundice , fulminant hepatitis , liver necrosis , and hepatic failure , some of them with fatal outcomes , have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Evaluate patients with symptoms and / or signs suggesting liver dysfunction , or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred , for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with SPRIX .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , etc . ) , discontinue SPRIX .
5 . 10 Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of SPRIX in reducing inflammation and fever may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting infections .
5 . 11 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal .
Since cross reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , do not administer SPRIX to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity , and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 12 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of SPRIX with the eyes .
If eye contact occurs , wash out the eye with water or saline , and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Gastrointestinal effects [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hemorrhage [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Renal effects [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Anaphylactoid reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Cardiovascular thrombotic events [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Congestive heart failure and edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Serious skin reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hepatic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] The most frequently reported adverse reactions were related to local symptoms , i . e . , nasal discomfort or irritation .
These reactions were generally mild and transient in nature .
The most common drug - related adverse events leading to premature discontinuation were nasal discomfort or nasal pain ( rhinalgia ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 2 % ) in patients treated with SPRIX and occurring at a rate at least twice that of placebo are nasal discomfort , rhinalgia , increased lacrimation , throat irritation , oliguria , rash , bradycardia , decreased urine output , increased ALT and / or AST , hypertension , and rhinitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact American Regent , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 734 - 9236 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Experience from SPRIX Clinical Studies Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to SPRIX in patients enrolled in placebo - controlled efficacy studies of acute pain following major surgery .
The studies enrolled 828 patients ( 183 men , 645 women ) ranging from 18 years to over 75 years of age .
The patients in the postoperative pain studies had undergone major abdominal , orthopedic , gynecologic , or other surgery ; 455 patients received SPRIX ( 31 . 5 mg ) three or four times a day for up to 5 days , and 245 patients received placebo .
Most patients were receiving concomitant opioids , primarily PCA morphine .
Table 1 .
Post - operative Patients with Adverse Reactions Observed at a rate of 2 % or more and at least twice the incidence of the placebo group .
SPRIX ( N = 455 ) Placebo ( N = 245 ) Nasal discomfort 15 % 2 % Rhinalgia 13 % < 1 % Lacrimation increased 5 % 0 % Throat irritation 4 % < 1 % Oliguria 3 % 1 % Rash 3 % < 1 % Bradycardia 2 % < 1 % Urine output decreased 2 % < 1 % ALT and / or AST increased 2 % 1 % Hypertension 2 % 1 % Rhinitis 2 % < 1 % In controlled clinical trials in major surgery , primarily knee and hip replacements and abdominal hysterectomies , seven patients ( N = 455 , 1 . 5 % ) treated with SPRIX experienced serious adverse events of bleeding ( 4 patients ) or hematoma ( 3 patients ) at the operative site versus one patient ( N = 245 , 0 . 4 % ) treated with placebo ( hematoma ) .
Six of the seven patients treated with SPRIX underwent a surgical procedure and / or blood transfusion and the placebo patient subsequently required a blood transfusion .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac .
It is necessary to remain alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac , such as GI ulceration , bleeding , and perforation , postoperative bleeding , acute renal failure , anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions , and liver failure .
These complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac is indicated , especially when the drug is used inappropriately .
In patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials , the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1 % to 10 % of patients are : Gastrointestinal ( GI ) experiences including : * Incidence greater than 10 % abdominal pain constipation / diarrhea dyspepsia flatulence GI fullness GI ulcers ( gastric / duodenal ) gross bleeding / perforation heartburn nausea * stomatitis vomiting Other experiences : abnormal renal function anemia dizziness drowsiness edema elevated liver enzymes headache * hypertension increased bleeding time injection site pain pruritus purpura rash tinnitus sweating Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally ( < 1 % in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials ) include : Body as a Whole : fever , infection , sepsis Cardiovascular System : congestive heart failure , palpitation , pallor , tachycardia , syncope Digestive System : anorexia , dry mouth , eructation , esophagitis , excessive thirst , gastritis , glossitis , hematemesis , hepatitis , increased appetite , jaundice , melena , rectal bleeding Hemic and Lymphatic : ecchymosis , eosinophilia , epistaxis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : weight change Nervous System : abnormal dreams , abnormal thinking , anxiety , asthenia , confusion , depression , euphoria , extrapyramidal symptoms , hallucinations , hyperkinesis , inability to concentrate , insomnia , nervousness , paresthesia , somnolence , stupor , tremors , vertigo , malaise Respiratory : asthma , dyspnea , pulmonary edema , rhinitis Special Senses : abnormal taste , abnormal vision , blurred vision , hearing loss Urogenital : cystitis , dysuria , hematuria , increased urinary frequency , interstitial nephritis , oliguria / polyuria , proteinuria , renal failure , urinary retention 6 . 3 Adverse Reactions from Postmarketing Experience with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Other observed reactions ( reported from postmarketing experience in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs ) are : Body as a Whole : angioedema , death , hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reaction , laryngeal edema , tongue edema , myalgia Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , bradycardia , chest pain , flushing , hypotension , myocardial infarction , vasculitis Dermatologic : exfoliative dermatitis , erythema multiforme , Lyell ' s syndrome , bullous reactions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis Gastrointestinal : acute pancreatitis , liver failure , ulcerative stomatitis , exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease ( ulcerative colitis , Crohn ' s disease ) Hemic and Lymphatic : agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , lymphadenopathy , pancytopenia , postoperative wound hemorrhage ( rarely requiring blood transfusion ) Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia , hyperkalemia , hyponatremia Nervous System : aseptic meningitis , convulsions , coma , psychosis Respiratory : bronchospasm , respiratory depression , pneumonia Special Senses : conjunctivitis Urogenital : flank pain with or without hematuria and / or azotemia , hemolytic uremic syndrome 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein ( mean 99 . 2 % ) .
There is no evidence in animal or human studies that ketorolac induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs .
• Concomitant use with anticoagulants may increase the risk of serious GI bleeding .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Warfarin , Digoxin , Salicylate , and Heparin The in vitro binding of warfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac ( 99 . 5 % control vs . 99 . 3 % ) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to 10 mcg / mL .
Ketorolac does not alter digoxin protein binding .
In vitro studies indicate that , at therapeutic concentrations of salicylate ( 300 mcg / mL ) , the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99 . 2 % to 97 . 5 % , representing a potential twofold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels .
Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin , warfarin , ibuprofen , naproxen , piroxicam , acetaminophen , phenytoin , and tolbutamide did not alter ketorolac protein binding .
The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs , in general , on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than the users of either drug alone .
7 . 2 Aspirin When ketorolac is administered with aspirin , its protein binding is reduced , although the clearance of free ketorolac is not altered .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs , concomitant administration of SPRIX and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 11 ) ] .
7 . 3 Diuretics Clinical studies , as well as postmarketing observations , have shown that ketorolac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
During concomitant therapy with SPRIX , observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) ] , as well as to assure diuretic efficacy .
7 . 4 Probenecid Concomitant administration of oral ketorolac and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance and volume of distribution of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels ( total AUC increased approximately threefold from 5 . 4 to 17 . 8 mcg / h / mL ) , and terminal half - life increased approximately twofold from 6 . 6 to 15 . 1 hours .
Therefore , concomitant use of SPRIX and probenecid is contraindicated .
7 . 5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance .
The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15 % , and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20 % .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID .
Thus , when SPRIX and lithium are administered concurrently , observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity .
7 . 6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate .
Use caution when SPRIX is administered concomitantly with methotrexate .
7 . 7 ACE Inhibitors / Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors and / or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may increase the risk of renal impairment , particularly in volume - depleted patients .
Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors and / or angiotensin II receptor antagonists .
Consider this interaction in patients taking SPRIX concomitantly with ACE inhibitors and / or angiotensin II receptor antagonists [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 8 Antiepileptic Drugs Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac and antiepileptic drugs ( phenytoin , carbamazepine ) .
7 . 9 Psychoactive Drugs Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs ( fluoxetine , thiothixene , alprazolam ) .
7 . 10 Pentoxifylline When ketorolac is administered concurrently with pentoxifylline , there is an increased tendency to bleeding .
Therefore , concomitant use of SPRIX and Pentoxifylline is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 11 Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea .
The concurrent use of ketorolac with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied .
7 . 12 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors ( SSRIs ) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) are combined with NSAIDs .
Use caution when SPRIX is administered concomitantly with SSRIs .
7 . 13 Fluticasone The rate and extent of absorption of ketorolac from SPRIX administration ( 31 . 5 mg dose ) were assessed in subjects with allergic rhinitis before and after the administration of a single daily dose of 200 mcg ( as 2 x 50 mcg in each nostril ) of fluticasone propionate nasal spray for 7 consecutive days .
There was no effect on the pharmacokinetic characteristics of SPRIX that can be considered clinically significant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 14 Oxymetazoline The rate and extent of absorption of ketorolac from SPRIX administration were assessed in subjects with allergic rhinitis before and 30 min after a single dose ( 3 sprays in each nostril ) of oxymetazoline hydrochloride nasal spray .
There was no effect on the pharmacokinetic characteristics of SPRIX that can be considered clinically significant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C prior to 30 weeks gestation ; Category D starting at 30 weeks gestation .
SPRIX can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Human data demonstrate that use of NSAIDs at or after 30 weeks gestation increases the risk of premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
If SPRIX is used at or after 30 weeks gestation , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
There are no adequate , well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Prior to 30 weeks gestation , SPRIX should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Reproduction studies have been performed during organogenesis using daily oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 3 . 6 mg / kg ( 0 . 6 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended maximum IN dose of 31 . 5 mg qid , based on area - under - the - plasma - concentration curve [ AUC ] ) in rabbits and at 10 mg / kg ( 1 . 7 times the human AUC ) in rats .
These studies did not reveal evidence of teratogenicity or other adverse developmental outcomes .
However , because animal dosing was limited by maternal toxicity , these studies do not adequately assess ketorolac ' s potential to cause adverse developmental outcomes in humans .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effects of SPRIX on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown .
In rat studies , maternal exposure to NSAIDs , as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis , increased the incidence of dystocia and delayed parturition , and decreased pup survival .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ketorolac is excreted in human milk .
Ten nursing mothers received 10 mg of oral ketorolac , four times a day , for two days .
In four women , ketorolac was undetectable in milk ( assay limit 5 ng / mL ) .
In the remaining six women , ketorolac concentrations in milk ranged from 5 . 2 to 7 . 9 ng / mL .
Based on these concentrations , the estimated maximum infant daily dose of ketorolac from breast milk is 1 . 185 mcg / kg / day .
Exercise caution when administering SPRIX to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ketorolac in pediatric patients 17 years of age and younger have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use ( ≥ 65 years of age ) Exercise caution when treating the elderly ( 65 years and older ) with SPRIX .
Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of SPRIX and other treatment options before deciding to use SPRIX .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
After observing the response to initial therapy with SPRIX , then adjust the dose and frequency to suit an individual patient ' s needs .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Ketorolac does not bind to opiate receptors .
A study to evaluate the sedative and addictive potential of ketorolac in volunteers showed no withdrawal symptoms upon cessation of dosing with ketorolac 30 mg IM 4 times daily for 5 days .
A single - dose clinical study of IM ketorolac showed no significant adverse effects on psychomotor measurements , including reaction time , computerized driving skills , ataxia , and sedation .
10 OVERDOSAGE There has been no experience with overdosage of SPRIX .
In controlled overdosage studies with IM ketorolac injection , daily doses of 360 mg given for five days ( approximately 3 times the maximum daily dose of SPRIX ) caused abdominal pain and peptic ulcers , which healed after discontinuation of dosing .
Single overdoses of ketorolac tromethamine have been variously associated with abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , hyperventilation , peptic ulcers and / or erosive gastritis , and renal dysfunction .
Symptoms and Signs Symptoms following acute NSAID overdose are usually limited to lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Hypertension , acute renal failure , respiratory depression , and coma may occur , but are rare .
Treatment Manage patients using symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdose .
There are no specific antidotes .
Activated charcoal ( 60 g to 100 g in adults , 1 g / kg to 2 g / kg in children ) may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms or following a large oral overdose ( 5 to 10 times the usual dose ) .
Forced diuresis , alkalization of urine , hemodialysis , or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding .
11 DESCRIPTION Ketorolac tromethamine is a member of the pyrrolo - pyrrole group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
The chemical name for ketorolac tromethamine is ( ± ) - 5 - benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 H - pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid , compound with 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - propanediol ( 1 : 1 ) , and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of ketorolac tromethamine is 376 . 41 .
Ketorolac tromethamine is highly water - soluble , allowing its formulation in an aqueous nasal spray product at pH 7 . 2 .
SPRIX is available as an intranasal spray product containing the active ingredient ( ketorolac tromethamine ) and the excipients edetate disodium ( EDTA ) , monobasic potassium phosphate , sodium hydroxide , and water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action SPRIX contains ketorolac tromethamine , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
Ketorolac is an analgesic that inhibits the enzyme cyclooxygenase ( COX ) , an early component of the arachidonic acid cascade , resulting in the reduced synthesis of prostaglandins , thromboxanes , and prostacyclin .
Ketorolac does not bind to the opiate receptor subtypes ( mu , kappa , delta ) , but a 30 mg dose of ketorolac tromethamine IM has demonstrated an overall analgesic effect between that obtained with morphine 6 mg and 12 mg .
Ketorolac possesses no sedative or anxiolytic properties , and has no effect on gut motility .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Ketorolac tromethamine is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S and [ + ] R - enantiomeric forms , with the S - form having analgesic activity .
Ketorolac , the active component of SPRIX , has anti - inflammatory , analgesic , and anti - pyretic effects .
Studies directly comparing the analgesic effects of SPRIX and opioids have not been conducted .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The half - lives of ketorolac by the IN and IM routes were similar .
The bioavailability of ketorolac by the IN route of administration of a 31 . 5 mg dose was approximately 60 % compared to IM administration .
( See Table 2 . )
Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ketorolac Tromethamine after Intramuscular ( IM ) and Intranasal ( IN ) Administration Cmax = maximum plasma concentration ; tmax = time of Cmax ; AUC0 - ∞ = complete area under the concentration - time curve ; T ½ = half - life ; SD = standard deviation .
All values are means , except tmax , for which medians are reported .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Cmax ( SD ) ng / mL tmax ( range ) hours AUC 0 - ∞ ( SD ) ng • h / mL T ½ ( SD ) hours 30 mg IM ( 1 . 0 mL of a 30 mg / mL solution ) 2382 . 2 ( 432 . 7 ) 0 . 75 ( 0 . 25 - 1 . 03 ) 11152 . 8 ( 4260 . 1 ) 4 . 80 ( 1 . 18 ) 31 . 5 mg IN ( SPRIX ) ( 2 x 100 μL of a 15 % w / w solution ) 1805 . 8 ( 882 . 8 ) 0 . 75 ( 0 . 50 - 2 . 00 ) 7477 . 3 ( 3654 . 4 ) 5 . 24 ( 1 . 33 ) 15 mg IM ( 0 . 5 mL of a 30 mg / mL solution ) 1163 . 4 ( 279 . 9 ) 0 . 75 ( 0 . 25 - 1 . 50 ) 5196 . 3 ( 2076 . 7 ) 5 . 00 ( 1 . 72 ) Absorption : In a study in which SPRIX ( 31 . 5 mg ) was administered to healthy volunteers four times daily for 5 days , the Cmax , tmax , and AUC values following the final dose were comparable to those obtained in the single - dose study .
Accumulation of ketorolac has not been studied in special populations , geriatric , pediatric , renal failure or hepatic disease patients .
Distribution : Scintigraphic assessment of drug disposition of ketorolac following SPRIX intranasal dosing demonstrated that most of the ketorolac was deposited in the nasal cavity and pharynx , with less than 20 % deposited in the esophagus and stomach , and zero or negligible deposition in the lungs ( < 0 . 5 % ) .
The mean apparent volume ( Vβ ) of ketorolac tromethamine following complete distribution was approximately 13 liters .
This parameter was determined from single - dose data .
The ketorolac tromethamine racemate has been shown to be highly protein bound ( 99 % ) .
Nevertheless , plasma concentrations as high as 10 mcg / mL will only occupy approximately 5 % of the albumin binding sites .
Thus , the unbound fraction for each enantiomer will be constant over the therapeutic range .
A decrease in serum albumin , however , will result in increased free drug concentrations .
Ketorolac tromethamine is excreted in human milk .
Metabolism : Ketorolac tromethamine is largely metabolized in the liver .
The metabolic products are hydroxylated and conjugated forms of the parent drug .
The products of metabolism , and some unchanged drug , are excreted in the urine .
Excretion : The principal route of elimination of ketorolac and its metabolites is renal .
About 92 % of a given dose is found in the urine , approximately 40 % as metabolites and 60 % as unchanged ketorolac .
Approximately 6 % of a dose is excreted in the feces .
A single - dose study with 10 mg ketorolac tromethamine ( n = 9 ) demonstrated that the S - enantiomer is cleared approximately two times faster than the R - enantiomer and that the clearance was independent of the route of administration .
This means that the ratio of S / R plasma concentrations decreases with time after each dose .
There is little or no inversion of the R - to S - form in humans .
The half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine S - enantiomer was approximately 2 . 5 hours ( SD ± 0 . 4 ) compared with 5 hours ( SD ± 1 . 7 ) for the R - enantiomer .
In other studies , the half - life for the racemate has been reported to lie within the range of 5 to 6 hours .
12 . 4 Special Populations Drug Interactions : A study was conducted in subjects with symptomatic allergic rhinitis to assess the effects of the commonly used nasal spray products oxymetazoline hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate on the pharmacokinetics of SPRIX .
Subjects received a single dose of oxymetazoline nasal spray followed by a single dose ( 31 . 5 mg ) of SPRIX 30 min later .
Subjects also received fluticasone nasal spray ( 200 mcg as 2 x 50 mcg in each nostril ) for seven days , with a single dose ( 31 . 5 mg ) of SPRIX on the 7 th day .
Administration of these common IN products had no effect of clinical significance on the rate or extent of ketorolac absorption .
In addition , comparison of the pharmacokinetics of SPRIX in subjects with allergic rhinitis to data from a previous study in healthy subjects showed no differences that would be of clinical consequence for the efficacy or safety of SPRIX .
Geriatric Patients : A single - dose study was conducted to compare the pharmacokinetics of SPRIX ( 31 . 5 mg ) in subjects ≥ age 65 to the pharmacokinetics in subjects < age 65 .
Exposure to ketorolac was increased by 23 % for the ≥ 65 population as compared to subjects < 65 .
Peak concentrations of 2028 and 1840 ng / mL were observed for the elderly and nonelderly adult populations , respectively , at 0 . 75 h after dosing .
In the elderly population a longer terminal half - life was observed as compared to the nonelderly adults ( 4 . 5 h vs . 3 . 3 h , respectively ) .
Renal Insufficiency : Based on single - dose data only , the mean half - life of ketorolac tromethamine in renally impaired patients is between 6 and 19 hours , and is dependent on the extent of the impairment .
There is poor correlation between creatinine clearance and total ketorolac tromethamine clearance in the elderly and populations with renal impairment ( r = 0 . 5 ) .
In patients with renal disease , the AUC ∞ of each enantiomer increased by approximately 100 % compared with healthy volunteers .
The volume of distribution doubles for the S - enantiomer and increases by 1 / 5 th for the R - enantiomer .
The increase in volume of distribution of ketorolac tromethamine implies an increase in unbound fraction .
The AUC ∞ - ratio of the ketorolac tromethamine enantiomers in healthy subjects and patients remained similar , indicating there was no selective excretion of either enantiomer in patients compared to healthy subjects .
Hepatic Insufficiency : There was no significant difference in estimates of half - life , AUC ∞ and Cmax in 7 patients with liver disease compared to healthy volunteers .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been identified .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : An 18 - month study in mice with oral doses of ketorolac at 2 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 5 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended maximum IN dose of 31 . 5 mg qid , based on area - under - the - plasma - concentration curve [ AUC ] ) , and a 24 - month study in rats at 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 8 times the human AUC ) showed no evidence of tumorigenicity .
Mutagenesis : Ketorolac was not mutagenic in the Ames test , unscheduled DNA synthesis and repair , or in forward mutation assays .
Ketorolac did not cause chromosome breakage in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
At 1590 μg / mL and at higher concentrations , ketorolac increased the incidence of chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovarian cells .
Impairment of fertility : Impairment of fertility did not occur in male or female rats at oral doses of 9 mg / kg ( approximately 1 . 5 times the human AUC ) and 16 mg / kg ( approximately 2 . 7 times the human AUC ) of ketorolac , respectively .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Postoperative Pain The effect of SPRIX on acute pain was evaluated in two multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
In a study of adults who had undergone elective abdominal or orthopedic surgery , 300 patients were randomized and treated with SPRIX or placebo administered every 8 hours and morphine administered via patient controlled analgesia on an as needed basis .
Efficacy was demonstrated as a statistically significant greater reduction in the summed pain intensity difference over 48 hours in patients who received SPRIX as compared to those receiving placebo .
The clinical relevance of this is reflected in the finding that patients treated with SPRIX required 36 % less morphine over 48 hours than patients treated with placebo .
In a study of adults who had undergone elective abdominal surgery , 321 patients were randomized and treated with SPRIX or placebo administered every 6 hours and morphine administered via patient controlled analgesia on an as needed basis .
Efficacy was demonstrated as a statistically significant greater reduction in the summed pain intensity difference over 48 hours in patients who received SPRIX as compared to those receiving placebo .
The clinical relevance of this is reflected in the finding that patients treated with SPRIX required 26 % less morphine over 48 hours than patients treated with placebo .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Preservative - free SPRIX Nasal Spray is supplied in boxes containing 5 single - day nasal spray bottles ( NDC 0517 - 8880 - 05 ) or 1 single - day nasal spray bottle ( NDC 0517 - 8880 - 01 ) .
Each single - day nasal spray bottle contains a sufficient quantity of solution to deliver 8 sprays for a total of 126 mg of ketorolac tromethamine .
Each spray delivers 15 . 75 mg of ketorolac tromethamine .
The delivery system is designed to administer precisely metered doses of 100 μL per spray .
16 . 2 Storage Protect from light and freezing .
Store unopened SPRIX between 36 ° F and 46 ° F ( 2 ° C and 8 ° C ) .
During use , keep containers of SPRIX Nasal Spray at controlled room temperature , between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ( 15 ° C and 30 ° C ) , out of direct sunlight .
Bottles of SPRIX should be discarded within 24 hours of priming .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct patients to read the NSAID Medication Guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed .
Inform patients of the following information before initiating therapy with SPRIX .
Instruct all patients to read and closely follow the FDA - approved SPRIX Patient Instructions to ensure proper administration of SPRIX .
When prescribing SPRIX , inform patients or their caregivers of the potential risks of ketorolac treatment , instruct patients to seek medical advice if they develop treatment - related adverse events , advise patients not to give SPRIX to other family members , and advise patients to discard any unused drug .
17 . 1 Limitations of Use Instruct patients not to use SPRIX for more than 5 days .
Use of SPRIX alone or in combination with any other ketorolac product for more than 5 days increases the risk for serious complications including GI bleeding and renal injury .
17 . 2 Gastrointestinal Effects Ketorolac is a potent NSAID and , like other NSAIDs , may cause serious side effects , such as gastrointestinal bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even fatal outcome .
Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulcerations and bleeding , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptom , including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Instruct patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Renal Effects SPRIX is eliminated by the kidneys .
Advise patients to maintain adequate fluid intake and request medical advice if urine output decreases significantly [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 4 Cardiovascular Effects Ketorolac , like other NSAIDs , may cause serious CV events , such as MI or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV events can occur without warning symptoms , advise patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and that they should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Inform patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
17 . 5 Adverse Skin Reactions Ketorolac , like other NSAIDs , can cause serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious skin reactions may occur without warning , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms .
Advise patients to stop the drug immediately if they develop any type of rash , and contact their physicians as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 6 Weight Gain and Edema Instruct patients to promptly report signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain or edema to their physicians [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
17 . 7 Hepatotoxicity Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to stop therapy and seek immediate medical therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
17 . 8 Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction ( e . g . , difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to seek immediate emergency help [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 11 ) ] .
17 . 9 Effects During Pregnancy Avoid the use of SPRIX at or beyond 30 weeks gestation as ketorolac can cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus [ see , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 10 Single Day Container Instruct patients not to use any single bottle of SPRIX for more than one day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 11 Nasal Discomfort Advise patients that they may experience transient , mild to moderate nasal irritation or discomfort upon dosing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : American Regent , Inc .
Shirley , NY 11967 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Medication Guide For Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This chance increases : • with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a “ coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . ”
NSAID medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • taking medicines called “ corticosteroids ” and “ anticoagulants ” • longer use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health NSAID medicines should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What are Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as : • different types of arthritis • menstrual cramps and other types of short - term pain Who should not take a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) ?
Do not take an NSAID medicine : • if you had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAID medicine • for pain right before or after heart bypass surgery Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
• about all of the medicines you take .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• if you are pregnant .
Use of NSAID medicines ( at or after 30 weeks of pregnancy ) can harm your baby .
• if you are breastfeeding .
Some SPRIX ® ( ketorolac tromethamine ) Nasal Spray may pass into your breast milk .
What are the possible side effects of Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
Serious side effects include : • heart attack • stroke • high blood pressure • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • kidney problems including kidney failure • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma Other side effects include : • stomach pain • constipation • diarrhea • gas • heartburn • nausea • vomiting • dizziness Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • weakness in one part or side of your body • slurred speech • swelling of the face or throat Stop your NSAID medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms and legs , hands and feet These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Other information about Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : • Aspirin is an NSAID medicine but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some of these NSAID medicines are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - the - counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
NSAID medicines that need a prescription : Generic Name Tradename Celecoxib Celebrex Diclofenac Flector , Cataflam , Voltaren , Arthrotec ( combined with misoprostol ) Diflunisal Dolobid Etodolac Lodine , Lodine XL Fenoprofen Nalfon , Nalfon 200 Flurbirofen Ansaid Ibuprofen Motrin , Tab - Profen , Vicoprofen ( combined with hydrocodone ) , Combunox ( combined with oxycodone ) Indomethacin Indocin , Indocin SR , Indo - Lemmon , Indomethagan Ketoprofen Oruvail Ketorolac SPRIX ® Mefenamic Acid Ponstel Meloxicam Mobic Nabumetone Relafen Naproxen Naprosyn , Anaprox , Anaprox DS , EC - Naproxyn , Naprelan , Naprapac ( copackaged with lansoprazole ) Oxaprozin Daypro Piroxicam Feldene Sulindac Clinoril Tolmetin Tolectin , Tolectin DS , Tolectin 600 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Patient Instructions Guide to Proper Use of SPRIX ® ( ketorolac tromethamine ) Nasal Spray Each Nasal Spray Bottle Contains 1 Day ' s Supply of Pain Medication Discard each nasal spray bottle within 24 hours of taking your first dose , even if the bottle still contains some unused medication .
Please read this leaflet carefully before you start to take your medicine .
It is important that you use SPRIX properly to achieve the desired results .
For further information ask your doctor or pharmacist .
USE OF SPRIX FOR ACUTE MODERATE TO MODERATELY SEVERE PAIN Your doctor has prescribed SPRIX to treat pain .
It is important that you use SPRIX only as prescribed by your doctor .
Do not use SPRIX for more than 5 days in a row .
If you are still experiencing pain after 5 days , please contact your doctor or healthcare provider .
SPRIX contains ketorolac , a potent non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) that reduces inflammation and pain .
For more information about NSAID products , please see the separate NSAID Medication Guide .
As with all pain medications , it is important that you drink plenty of fluids while you are taking SPRIX .
USING YOUR NASAL SPRAY Always follow your doctor ' s instructions about how often to use SPRIX .
The doctor will tell you how many sprays you should use each time you take SPRIX .
These instructions will provide you with information on how to use the spray bottle .
Some patients experience discomfort or irritation in the nose when using SPRIX .
Generally , this lasts only a few minutes and does not worsen when you use SPRIX again .
Some people experience a brief sensation in the throat .
If this happens , you may want to take a sip of water after using SPRIX .
Components of SPRIX Bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] FOLLOW THESE SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS • First hold the finger flange with your fingers ( See Figure 1 ) , and remove the clear plastic cover with your opposite hand ; then remove the blue plastic safety clip .
Keep the clear plastic cover ; you may throw away the blue plastic safety clip .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Before using the bottle for the FIRST time , you must activate the pump .
To activate the pump , hold the bottle at arm ' s length away from you with your index finger and middle finger resting on the top of the finger flange and your thumb supporting the base ( see Figure 2 ) .
Press down evenly and release the pump 5 times .
Note : you may not see a spray the first few times you press down .
The bottle is now ready to use .
There is no need to activate the pump again if you use more doses from this bottle .
Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • It ' s important to get the medication to the correct place in your nose so it will be most effective .
Here ' s the simple way to do this .
Blow your nose gently to clear your nostrils .
Sit up straight or stand .
Tilt your head slightly forward .
Insert the tip of the container into your right nostril .
Point the container away from the center of your nose ( see Figure 3 ) .
Figure 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Spray once into your right nostril , pressing down evenly on both sides , as shown in Figure 3 .
If your doctor has prescribed only one spray per dose for you , you have now completed administration ; skip to Step 5 below .
• If your doctor has prescribed a dose of 2 sprays for you , repeat the process for your left nostril .
Again , be sure to point the spray away from the center of your nose .
Spray once into your left nostril .
• Replace the clear plastic cover and place the bottle in a cool , dry location out of direct sunlight , such as inside a medication cabinet .
Keep out of reach of children .
DOSING AND ADMINISTRATION - For adults under 65 years of age , the usual recommended dose is one dose every 6 - 8 hours , as needed for relief of pain .
One dose consists of one spray into each nostril ( two sprays in total ) .
- For adults 65 years of age or older , the usual recommended dose is one dose every 6 - 8 hours , as needed .
One dose consists of one spray into either nostril ( one spray in total ) .
- Do not use more than the prescribed amount , and do not use more frequently than once every 6 hours . STORING AND DISCARDING YOUR CONTAINERS - Keep SPRIX upright in a cool , dry location out of direct sunlight . - SPRIX does not contain a preservative .
It is important that you throw away each bottle of SPRIX within 24 hours of administering the first dose .
Once a bottle has been used , do not keep it for more than 24 hours . - Always keep SPRIX out of the reach of children . - Do not allow SPRIX to become frozen . - Discard in the trash ( non - recyclable ) .
ASSEMBLY INSTRUCTIONS - If the clear plastic cover is improperly removed , the top portion of the nasal spray may be pulled off of the glass vial .
If this happens , reinsert the top portion back onto the glass vial by lining it up carefully and softly pushing it back on until it is back in the correct position ( See Figure 4 ) .
The nasal spray bottle will now work properly again .
Figure 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] FOR MORE INFORMATION If you have any questions about SPRIX , or are unsure about something , you should ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Do not throw this leaflet away , so you may read it again when you administer additional doses or begin using a new bottle of SPRIX Nasal Spray .
Distributed by : American Regent , Inc .
Shirley , NY 11967 Rev . 1 / 11 Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc .
Grover Beach , CA 93433 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Bottle Label SPRIX ® ( ketorolac tromethamine ) Nasal Spray 15 . 75 mg per spray Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
