Active Ingredient Active Ingredient ...........................
Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % ....................... Anti - Itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : - eczema - insect bites - poison ivy , poison oak , or poison sumac - soaps - detergents - jewelry - seborrheic dermatitis - psoriasis - external genital and anal itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use - for the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor - for external genital itching , if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor When using this product - avoid contact with the eyes - do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor - for external anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly .
- Do not put this product in rectum by using fingers or any mechanical devise for application .
Stop use and ask a doctor if - condition worsens - symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Other Safety Information If swallowed , get medical help or call a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older - apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age - Do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching - adults , when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap , and warm water , and rinse thoroughly , or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
- children under 12 years of age with external anal itching , consult a doctor .
Storage & Handling - store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) - see end of carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive Ingredients Petrolatum , Mineral Oil , Cetyl Alcohol , Stearic Acid , Beeswax , Myristoyl / Palmitoyl Oxostearamide / Arachamide MEA , Cholesterol , Methylparaben , Propylparaben Questions or information Questions or information call toll free : 1 - 855 - ATOPALM Purpose Anti - Itch Description US Patent # US 6221371B1 Distributed by : Neopharm , USA , 1 Oyster Bay Drive , Rumson , NJ 07760 Made in Korea Batch / Lot # / Exp .
Date Maximum Strength Therapy available without a prescription Anti - Itch Ointment ATOPALM MAXIMUM STRENGTH ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT US Patented M L E Moisturizing Technology Net Wt .
1 oz / 28 . 3 g 1 % Hydrocortisone Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Uses : for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak or poison sumac , soaps , detergents , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis , external genital and anal itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use - For the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor - For external genital itching , if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
When using this product - avoid contact with eyes .
Do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor - for external anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly - do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical devise or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if - condition worsens - symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again with a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or call a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions : Adults and children 2 years of age or older - apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age - Do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching : - adults , when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap , and warm water and rinse thoroughly , or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
Children under 12 years of age with external anal itching , consult a doctor .
Other information : store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) See end of carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date .
Questions or information call toll free : 1 - 855 ATOPALM Distributed by : Neopharm , USA , 1 Oyster Bay Drive , Rumson , NJ 07760 Made in Korea # 75722 Maximum Strength Therapy without a prescription 1 % Hydrocortisone Anti - Itch Ointment ATOPALM MAXIMUM STRENGTH ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT US Patented M L E Moisturizing Technology Fast , temporary relief of pain , itching and redness from insect bites and skin irritations associated with Poison Ivy , Oak , Sumac , Eczema and Psoriasis .
Leaves Skin Looking Visibly Healthier , Softer , Smoother .
Maximum Strength without a prescription ATOPALM RAPID RELIEF Rapid Relief of Itching and Redness Rapid Relief of Itching and Redness ATOPALM MAXIMUM STRENGTH ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT US Patented M L E Moisturizing Technology Net Wt .
1 oz / 28 . 3 g 1 % Hydrocortisone ATOPALM MAXIMUM STRENGTH ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT US Patented M L E Moisturizing Technology 8 57811 00222 4 Rapid Relief Anti - Itch Ointment ATOPALM RAPID RELIEF ANTI - ITCH OINTMENT Fast Temporary Relief of Pain and Itching from Insect Bites , Poison Ivy , Oak and Sumac , Psoriasis , External Genital and Anal Itching .
US Patent # US 6221371B1 Distributed by : Neopharm , USA , 1 Oyster Bay Drive , Rumson , NJ 07760 Made in Korea 75722 Batch / Lot # / Exp .
Date Product Package Inner Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Product Package Outer Label 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Product Package Outer Label 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Product Package Outer Label 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
