Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % , Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % , Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use Helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 26 . 9 % , benzoic acid , poloxamer 407 , sodium benzoate , caramel ADA statement " The ADA council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of Core Values Original Antiseptic Mouth Rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactered or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Original Mouthwash Adverse reactions Distributed by : Liberty Procurement , Inc .
650 Liberty Ave . Union , NJ 07083 USA Visit us at : www . facevalues . com principal display panel Core Values Compare to Listerine Original Original MOUTHWASH ANTISEPTIC Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Mouth Rinse Kills Germs that Cause Bad Breath , Plaque & the Gum Disease Gingivitis ADA Accepted American Dental Association 1 LITER ( 1 QT 1 . 8 FL OZ ) Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
