Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Purpose Bacitracin zinc 500 units First aid antibiotic Neomycin sulfate 3 . 5 mg First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units First aid antibiotic Pramoxine hydrochloride 10 mg External analgesic Uses First aid to help prevent infection and temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor : • cuts • scrapes • burns Warnings For external use only .
Not for prolonged use .
Do not use • in the eyes , nose , or over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition persists for more than 7 days , gets worse , or clears up and occurs again within a few days • a rash , redness , irritation , swelling , or pain persists or increases , or other allergic reaction develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions Adults and children 2 years old and older : • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • the affected area may be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years old : • ask a doctor Other information • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON TUBE IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients gossypium herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , olea europaea ( olive ) fruit oil , petrolatum , sodium pyruvate , theobroma cacao ( cocoa ) seed butter , tocopheryl ( vitamin E ) acetate Questions or comments ?
866 - 323 - 0107 or www . natureplex . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton Natureplex ™ Antibiotic + Pain , OINTMENT Itch , Scar Relief Bacitracin Zinc Neomycin Sulfate Polymyxin B Sulfate Pramoxine HCl NET WT 1 Oz ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
