1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are an antimuscarinic indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 4 mg capsules taken orally once daily with water and swallowed whole .
( 2 . 1 ) • 2 mg capsules taken orally once daily with water and swallowed whole in the presence of : • mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A or B ) ( 2 . 2 ) • severe renal impairment [ Creatinine Clearance ( CCr ) 10 to 30 mL / min ] ( 2 . 2 ) • drugs that are potent CYP3A4 inhibitors .
( 2 . 2 ) • Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with CCr < 10 mL / min .
( 2 . 2 ) • Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information The recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is 4 mg once daily with water and swallowed whole .
The dose may be lowered to 2 mg daily based on individual response and tolerability ; however , limited efficacy data are available for tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 2 mg [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Adjustment in Specific Populations For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A or B ) or severe renal impairment ( CCr 10 to 30 mL / min ) , the recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is 2 mg once daily .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Patients with CCr < 10 mL / min have not been studied and use of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules in this population is not recommended [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Adjustment in Presence of Concomitant Drugs For patients who are taking drugs that are potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 [ e . g . , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , ritonavir ] , the recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is 2 mg once daily [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The 2 mg capsules are light green with “ 7163 ” imprinted on the body and “ TEVA ” imprinted on the cap .
The 4 mg capsules are aqua blue with “ 7164 ” imprinted on the body and “ TEVA ” imprinted on the cap .
Capsules : 2 mg and 4 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention , gastric retention , or uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients , or to fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets which , like tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , are metabolized to 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention , gastric retention , or uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients , or to fesoterodine fumarate extended - release tablets which , like tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , are metabolized to 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Anaphylaxis and angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment have occurred with the first or subsequent doses of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
( 5 . 1 ) • Urinary Retention : use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
( 5 . 2 ) • Gastrointestinal Disorders : use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased gastrointestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention .
( 5 . 3 ) • Controlled Narrow - Angle Glaucoma : use caution in patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma .
( 5 . 4 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Somnolence has been reported with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules affect them ( 5 . 5 ) • Myasthenia Gravis : use caution in patients with myasthenia gravis .
( 5 . 8 ) • QT Prolongation : consider observations from the thorough QT study in clinical decisions to prescribe tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules to patients with a known history of QT prolongation or to patients who are taking Class IA ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide ) or Class III ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol ) antiarrhythmic medications .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Angioedema Anaphylaxis and angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment have occurred with the first or subsequent doses of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
In the event of difficulty in breathing , upper airway obstruction , or fall in blood pressure , tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided .
5 . 2 Urinary Retention Administer tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules with caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , like other antimuscarinic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions associated with decreased gastrointestinal motility ( e . g . , intestinal atony ) [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Controlled Narrow - Angle Glaucoma Administer tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules with caution in patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Central Nervous System Effects Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 . 2 ) ] including dizziness and somnolence [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the drug ’ s effects have been determined .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
5 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The clearance of orally administered tolterodine immediate release was substantially lower in cirrhotic patients than in the healthy volunteers .
For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A or B ) , the recommended dose for tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is 2 mg once daily .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 7 Renal Impairment Renal impairment can significantly alter the disposition of tolterodine and its metabolites .
The dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules should be reduced to 2 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment ( CCr : 10 to 30 mL / min ) .
Patients with CCr < 10 mL / min have not been studied and use of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules in this population is not recommended [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
5 . 8 Myasthenia Gravis Administer tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis , a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction .
5 . 9 Use in Patients with Congenital or Acquired QT Prolongation In a study of the effect of tolterodine immediate release tablets on the QT interval [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 2 ) ] , the effect on the QT interval appeared greater for 8 mg / day ( two times the therapeutic dose ) compared to 4 mg / day and was more pronounced in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers ( PM ) than extensive metabolizers ( EMs ) .
The effect of tolterodine 8 mg / day was not as large as that observed after four days of therapeutic dosing with the active control moxifloxacin .
However , the confidence intervals overlapped .
These observations should be considered in clinical decisions to prescribe tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules to patients with a known history of QT prolongation or to patients who are taking Class IA ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide ) or Class III ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol ) antiarrhythmic medications .
There has been no association of Torsade de Pointes in the international post - marketing experience with tolterodine tartrate tablets or tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 4 % and > placebo ) were dry mouth , headache , constipation , and abdominal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The efficacy and safety of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules was evaluated in 1073 patients ( 537 assigned to tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ; 536 assigned to placebo ) who were treated with 2 , 4 , 6 , or 8 mg / day for up to 15 months .
These included a total of 1012 patients ( 505 randomized to tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 4 mg once daily and 507 randomized to placebo ) enrolled in a randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , 12 week clinical efficacy and safety study .
Adverse events were reported in 52 % ( n = 263 ) of patients receiving tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and in 49 % ( n = 247 ) of patients receiving placebo .
The most common adverse events reported by patients receiving tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules were dry mouth , headache , constipation , and abdominal pain .
Dry mouth was the most frequently reported adverse event for patients treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules occurring in 23 . 4 % of patients treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and 7 . 7 % of placebo - treated patients .
Dry mouth , constipation , abnormal vision ( accommodation abnormalities ) , urinary retention , and dry eyes are expected side effects of antimuscarinic agents .
A serious adverse event was reported by 1 . 4 % ( n = 7 ) of patients receiving tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and by 3 . 6 % ( n = 18 ) of patients receiving placebo .
Table 1 lists the adverse events , regardless of causality , that were reported in the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study at an incidence greater than placebo and in greater than or equal to 1 % of patients treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 4 mg once daily .
Table 1 .
Incidence [ 1 ] ( % ) of Adverse Events Exceeding Placebo Rate and Reported in ≥ 1 % of Patients Treated with Tolterodine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules ( 4 mg daily ) in a 12 - week , Phase 3 Clinical Trial Body System Adverse Event % Tolterodine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules % Placebo n = 505 n = 507 Autonomic Nervous dry mouth 23 8 General headache 6 5 fatigue 2 1 Central / Peripheral Nervous dizziness 2 1 Gastrointestinal constipation 6 4 abdominal pain 4 2 dyspepsia 3 1 Vision xerophthalmia 3 2 vision abnormal 1 0 Psychiatric somnolence 3 2 anxiety 1 0 Respiratory sinusitis 2 1 Urinary dysuria 1 0 [ 1 ] in nearest integer .
The frequency of discontinuation due to adverse events was highest during the first 4 weeks of treatment .
Similar percentages of patients treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules or placebo discontinued treatment due to adverse events .
Dry mouth was the most common adverse event leading to treatment discontinuation among patients receiving tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules [ n = 12 ( 2 . 4 % ) vs . placebo n = 6 ( 1 . 2 % ) ] .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following events have been reported in association with tolterodine use in worldwide post - marketing experience : General : anaphylaxis and angioedema ; Cardiovascular : tachycardia , palpitations , peripheral edema ; Gastrointestinal : diarrhea ; Central / Peripheral Nervous : confusion , disorientation , memory impairment , hallucinations .
Reports of aggravation of symptoms of dementia ( e . g . , confusion , disorientation , delusion ) have been reported after tolterodine therapy was initiated in patients taking cholinesterase inhibitors for the treatment of dementia .
Because these spontaneously reported events are from the worldwide post - marketing experience , the frequency of events and the role of tolterodine in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Coadministration may increase systemic exposure to tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
Reduce tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules dose to 2 mg once daily .
( 7 . 2 ) • Other Anticholinergics ( antimuscarinics ) : Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision , and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 Potent CYP2D6 Inhibitors Fluoxetine , a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 activity , significantly inhibited the metabolism of tolterodine immediate release in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers , resulting in a 4 . 8 fold increase in tolterodine AUC .
There was a 52 % decrease in Cmax and a 20 % decrease in AUC of 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine ( 5 - HMT ) , the pharmacologically active metabolite of tolterodine [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
The sums of unbound serum concentrations of tolterodine and 5 - HMT are only 25 % higher during the interaction .
No dose adjustment is required when tolterodine and fluoxetine are co - administered [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole ( 200 mg daily ) , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , increased the mean Cmax and AUC of tolterodine by 2 and 2 . 5 fold , respectively , in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers .
For patients receiving ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , clarithromycin , or ritonavir , the recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is 2 mg once daily [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Other Interactions No clinically relevant interactions have been observed when tolterodine was co - administered with warfarin , with a combined oral contraceptive drug containing ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel , or with diuretics [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Other Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes In vivo drug - interaction data show that tolterodine immediate release does not result in clinically relevant inhibition of CYP1A2 , 2D6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , or 3A4 as evidenced by lack of influence on the marker drugs caffeine , debrisoquine , S - warfarin , and omeprazole [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Drug - Laboratory - Test Interactions Interactions between tolterodine and laboratory tests have not been studied .
7 . 6 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules with other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision , somnolence , and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal Impairment : Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with CCr < 10 mL / min .
Dose adjustment in severe renal impairment ( CCr : 10 to 30 mL / min ) .
( 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Not recommended for use in severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class C ) .
Dose adjustment in mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class A , B ) .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules use in pregnant women to inform drug - associated risks .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of tolterodine and its 5 - HMT metabolite to pregnant mice during organogenesis did not produce adverse developmental outcomes at doses approximately 9 to 12 times the clinical exposure at a dose of 20 mg / kg / day ; however , higher doses produced adverse developmental outcomes ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background rate of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No anomalies or malformations were observed after oral administration of tolterodine to pregnant mice during organogenesis at approximately 9 to 12 times the clinical exposure to the pharmacologically active components of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ( based on the AUC of tolterodine and its 5 - HMT metabolite at a dose of 20 mg / kg / day ) .
At 14 to 18 times the clinical exposure ( doses of 30 to 40 mg / kg / day ) in mice , tolterodine was embryo - lethal , caused reduced fetal weight , and increased the incidence of fetal abnormalities ( cleft palate , digital abnormalities , intra - abdominal hemorrhage , and various skeletal abnormalities , primarily reduced ossification ) .
Pregnant rabbits administered tolterodine subcutaneously at about 0 . 3 to 2 . 5 times the clinical exposure ( dose of 0 . 8 mg / kg / day ) did not show any embryotoxicity or teratogenicity .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of tolterodine or its 5 - HMT metabolite in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Based on limited data , tolterodine is excreted into the milk in mice in low amounts ( see Data ) .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
Animal Data The use of radiolabeled tolterodine in pregnant mice produced milk : plasma ratios that ranged between 0 . 0 and 0 . 7 .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The effectiveness of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules has not been established in pediatric patients .
Efficacy was not established in two randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , 12 - week studies that enrolled 710 pediatric patients ( 486 on tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 224 on placebo ) aged 5 to 10 years with urinary frequency and urge incontinence .
The percentage of patients with urinary tract infections was higher in patients treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ( 6 . 6 % ) compared to patients who received placebo ( 4 . 5 % ) .
Aggressive , abnormal , and hyperactive behavior and attention disorders occurred in 2 . 9 % of children treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules compared to 0 . 9 % of children treated with placebo .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety were observed between the older and younger patients treated with tolterodine .
In multiple - dose studies in which tolterodine immediate release 4 mg ( 2 mg bid ) was administered , serum concentrations of tolterodine and of 5 - HMT were similar in healthy elderly volunteers ( aged 64 through 80 years ) and healthy young volunteers ( aged less than 40 years ) .
In another clinical study , elderly volunteers ( aged 71 through 81 years ) were given tolterodine immediate release 2 or 4 mg ( 1 or 2 mg bid ) .
Mean serum concentrations of tolterodine and 5 - HMT in these elderly volunteers were approximately 20 % and 50 % higher , respectively , than concentrations reported in young healthy volunteers .
However , no overall differences were observed in safety between older and younger patients on tolterodine in the Phase 3 , 12 week , controlled clinical studies ; therefore , no tolterodine dosage adjustment for elderly patients is recommended .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Renal impairment can significantly alter the disposition of tolterodine immediate release and its metabolites .
In a study conducted in patients with creatinine clearance between 10 and 30 mL / min , tolterodine and 5 - HMT levels were approximately 2 to 3 fold higher in patients with renal impairment than in healthy volunteers .
Exposure levels of other metabolites of tolterodine ( e . g . , tolterodine acid , N - dealkylated tolterodine acid , N - dealkylated tolterodine , and N - dealkylated hydroxy tolterodine ) were significantly higher ( 10 to 30 fold ) in renally impaired patients as compared to the healthy volunteers .
The recommended dose for patients with severe renal impairment ( CCr : 10 to 30 mL / min ) is tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 2 mg daily .
Patients with CCr < 10 mL / min have not been studied and use of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules in this population is not recommended [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules have not been studied in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment [ CCr 30 to 80 mL / min ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Liver impairment can significantly alter the disposition of tolterodine immediate release .
In a study of tolterodine immediate release conducted in cirrhotic patients ( Child - Pugh Class A and B ) , the elimination half - life of tolterodine immediate release was longer in cirrhotic patients ( mean , 7 . 8 hours ) than in healthy , young , and elderly volunteers ( mean , 2 to 4 hours ) .
The clearance of orally administered tolterodine immediate release was substantially lower in cirrhotic patients ( 1 . 0 ± 1 . 7 L / h / kg ) than in the healthy volunteers ( 5 . 7 ± 3 . 8 L / h / kg ) .
The recommended dose for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A or B ) is tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 2 mg once daily .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules can potentially result in severe central anticholinergic effects and should be treated accordingly .
ECG monitoring is recommended in the event of overdosage .
In dogs , changes in the QT interval ( slight prolongation of 10 % to 20 % ) were observed at a suprapharmacologic dose of 4 . 5 mg / kg , which is about 68 times higher than the recommended human dose .
In clinical trials of normal volunteers and patients , QT interval prolongation was observed with tolterodine immediate release at doses up to 8 mg ( 4 mg bid ) and higher doses were not evaluated [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
A 27 - month - old child who ingested 5 to 7 tolterodine immediate release 2 mg tablets was treated with a suspension of activated charcoal and was hospitalized overnight with symptoms of dry mouth .
The child fully recovered .
11 DESCRIPTION Tolterodine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules contain Tolterodine Tartrate , USP .
The active moiety , tolterodine , is a muscarinic receptor antagonist .
The chemical name of Tolterodine Tartrate , USP is ( R ) - N , N - diisopropyl - 3 - ( 2 - hydroxy - 5 - methylphenyl ) - 3 - phenylpropanamine L - hydrogen tartrate .
The structural formula of Tolterodine Tartrate , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C26H37NO7 M . W . 475 . 6 Tolterodine Tartrate , USP is a white to creamy powder .
The pKa value is 9 . 87 and the solubility in water is 12 mg / mL .
It is soluble in methanol , slightly soluble in ethanol , and practically insoluble in toluene .
The partition coefficient ( Log D ) between n - octanol and water is 1 . 83 at pH 7 . 3 .
Tolterodine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules for oral administration contains 2 mg or 4 mg of Tolterodine Tartrate , USP .
Inactive ingredients include : ethylcellulose , gelatin , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide black , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , sugar spheres ( which contain sucrose and corn starch ) , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
Additionally , the 2 mg strength contains D & C yellow 10 and FD & C green 3 ; the 4 mg strength contains brilliant blue FCF - FD & C blue 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tolterodine acts as a competitive antagonist of acetylcholine at postganglionic muscarinic receptors .
Both urinary bladder contraction and salivation are mediated via cholinergic muscarinic receptors .
After oral administration , tolterodine is metabolized in the liver , resulting in the formation of 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine ( 5 - HMT ) , the major pharmacologically active metabolite .
5 - HMT , which exhibits an antimuscarinic activity similar to that of tolterodine , contributes significantly to the therapeutic effect .
Both tolterodine and 5 - HMT exhibit a high specificity for muscarinic receptors , since both show negligible activity or affinity for other neurotransmitter receptors and other potential cellular targets , such as calcium channels .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tolterodine has a pronounced effect on bladder function .
Effects on urodynamic parameters before and 1 and 5 hours after a single 6 . 4 mg dose of tolterodine immediate release were determined in healthy volunteers .
The main effects of tolterodine at 1 and 5 hours were an increase in residual urine , reflecting an incomplete emptying of the bladder , and a decrease in detrusor pressure .
These findings are consistent with an antimuscarinic action on the lower urinary tract .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of 2 mg BID and 4 mg BID of tolterodine tartrate immediate release ( tolterodine IR ) tablets on the QT interval was evaluated in a 4 way crossover , double - blind , placebo - and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg QD ) study in healthy male ( N = 25 ) and female ( N = 23 ) volunteers aged 18 to 55 years .
Study subjects [ approximately equal representation of CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers ( EMs ) and poor metabolizers ( PMs ) ] completed sequential 4 day periods of dosing with moxifloxacin 400 mg QD , tolterodine 2 mg BID , tolterodine 4 mg BID , and placebo .
The 4 mg BID dose of tolterodine IR ( two times the highest recommended dose ) was chosen because this dose results in tolterodine exposure similar to that observed upon coadministration of tolterodine 2 mg BID with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors in patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
QT interval was measured over a 12 - hour period following dosing , including the time of peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) of tolterodine and at steady state ( Day 4 of dosing ) .
Table 2 summarizes the mean change from baseline to steady state in corrected QT interval ( QTc ) relative to placebo at the time of peak tolterodine ( 1 hour ) and moxifloxacin ( 2 hour ) concentrations .
Both Fridericia ’ s ( QTcF ) and a population - specific ( QTcP ) method were used to correct QT interval for heart rate .
No single QT correction method is known to be more valid than others .
QT interval was measured manually and by machine , and data from both are presented .
The mean increase of heart rate associated with a 4 mg / day dose of tolterodine in this study was 2 . 0 beats / minute and 6 . 3 beats / minute with 8 mg / day tolterodine .
The change in heart rate with moxifloxacin was 0 . 5 beats / minute .
Table 2 .
Mean ( CI ) change in QTc from baseline to steady state ( Day 4 of dosing ) at Tmax ( relative to placebo ) Drug / Dose N QTcF QTcF QTcP QTcP ( msec ) ( msec ) ( msec ) ( msec ) ( manual ) ( machine ) ( manual ) ( machine ) Tolterodine 2 mg BID [ 1 ] 48 5 . 01 1 . 16 4 . 45 2 . 00 ( 0 . 28 , 9 . 74 ) ( - 2 . 99 , 5 . 30 ) ( - 0 . 37 , 9 . 26 ) ( - 1 . 81 , 5 . 81 ) Tolterodine 4 mg BID null 48 11 . 84 5 . 63 10 . 31 8 . 34 ( 7 . 11 , 16 . 58 ) ( 1 . 48 , 9 . 77 ) ( 5 . 49 , 15 . 12 ) ( 4 . 53 , 12 . 15 ) Moxifloxacin 400 mg QD [ 2 ] 45 19 . 26 [ 3 ] 8 . 90 19 . 10 null 9 . 29 ( 15 . 49 , 23 . 03 ) ( 4 . 77 , 13 . 03 ) ( 15 . 32 , 22 . 89 ) ( 5 . 34 , 13 . 24 ) [ 1 ] At Tmax of 1 hr ; 95 % Confidence Interval .
[ 2 ] At Tmax of 2 hr ; 90 % Confidence Interval .
[ 3 ] The effect on QT interval with 4 days of moxifloxacin dosing in this QT trial may be greater than typically observed in QT trials of other drugs .
The reason for the difference between machine and manual read of QT interval is unclear .
The QT effect of tolterodine immediate release tablets appeared greater for 8 mg / day ( two times the therapeutic dose ) compared to 4 mg / day .
The effect of tolterodine 8 mg / day was not as large as that observed after four days of therapeutic dosing with the active control moxifloxacin .
However , the confidence intervals overlapped .
Tolterodine ’ s effect on QT interval was found to correlate with plasma concentration of tolterodine .
There appeared to be a greater QTc interval increase in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers than in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers after tolterodine treatment in this study .
This study was not designed to make direct statistical comparisons between drugs or dose levels .
There has been no association of Torsade de Pointes in the international post - marketing experience with tolterodine tartrate tablets or tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : In a study with 14 C - tolterodine solution in healthy volunteers who received a 5 mg oral dose , at least 77 % of the radiolabeled dose was absorbed .
Cmax and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) determined after dosage of tolterodine immediate release are dose - proportional over the range of 1 to 4 mg .
Based on the sum of unbound serum concentrations of tolterodine and 5 - HMT ( “ active moiety ” ) , the AUC of tolterodine extended release 4 mg daily is equivalent to tolterodine immediate release 4 mg ( 2 mg bid ) .
Cmax and Cmin levels of tolterodine extended release are about 75 % and 150 % of tolterodine immediate release , respectively .
Maximum serum concentrations of tolterodine extended release are observed 2 to 6 hours after dose administration .
Effect of Food : There is no effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of tolterodine extended release .
Distribution : Tolterodine is highly bound to plasma proteins , primarily α1 - acid glycoprotein .
Unbound concentrations of tolterodine average 3 . 7 % ± 0 . 13 % over the concentration range achieved in clinical studies .
5 - HMT is not extensively protein bound , with unbound fraction concentrations averaging 36 % ± 4 . 0 % .
The blood to serum ratio of tolterodine and 5 - HMT averages 0 . 6 and 0 . 8 , respectively , indicating that these compounds do not distribute extensively into erythrocytes .
The volume of distribution of tolterodine following administration of a 1 . 28 mg intravenous dose is 113 ± 26 . 7 L . Metabolism : Tolterodine is extensively metabolized by the liver following oral dosing .
The primary metabolic route involves the oxidation of the 5 - methyl group and is mediated by the cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) and leads to the formation of a pharmacologically active metabolite , 5 - HMT .
Further metabolism leads to formation of the 5 - carboxylic acid and N - dealkylated 5 - carboxylic acid metabolites , which account for 51 % ± 14 % and 29 % ± 6 . 3 % of the metabolites recovered in the urine , respectively .
Variability in Metabolism : A subset of individuals ( approximately 7 % of Caucasians and approximately 2 % of African Americans ) are poor metabolizers for CYP2D6 , the enzyme responsible for the formation of 5 - HMT from tolterodine .
The identified pathway of metabolism for these individuals ( “ poor metabolizers ” ) is dealkylation via cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) to N - dealkylated tolterodine .
The remainder of the population is referred to as “ extensive metabolizers . ”
Pharmacokinetic studies revealed that tolterodine is metabolized at a slower rate in poor metabolizers than in extensive metabolizers ; this results in significantly higher serum concentrations of tolterodine and in negligible concentrations of 5 - HMT .
Excretion : Following administration of a 5 mg oral dose of 14 C - tolterodine solution to healthy volunteers , 77 % of radioactivity was recovered in urine and 17 % was recovered in feces in 7 days .
Less than 1 % ( < 2 . 5 % in poor metabolizers ) of the dose was recovered as intact tolterodine , and 5 % to 14 % ( < 1 % in poor metabolizers ) was recovered as 5 - HMT .
A summary of mean ( ± standard deviation ) pharmacokinetic parameters of tolterodine extended release and 5 - HMT in extensive ( EM ) and poor ( PM ) metabolizers is provided in Table 3 .
These data were obtained following single and multiple doses of tolterodine extended release administered daily to 17 healthy male volunteers ( 13 EM , 4 PM ) .
Table 3 .
Summary of Mean ( ± SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Tolterodine Extended - Release and its Active Metabolite ( 5 - Hydroxymethyl Tolterodine ) in Healthy Volunteers Tolterodine 5 - Hydroxymethyl Tolterodine tmax [ 1 ] ( h ) Cmax ( mcg / L ) Cavg ( mcg / L ) t ½ ( h ) tmax null ( h ) Cmax ( mcg / L ) Cavg ( mcg / L ) t ½ ( h ) Single dose 4 mg [ 2 ] EM 4 ( 2 to 6 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 8 ) 0 . 8 ( 0 . 57 ) 8 . 4 ( 3 . 2 ) 4 ( 3 to 6 ) 1 . 6 ( 0 . 5 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 32 ) 8 . 8 ( 5 . 9 ) Multiple dose 4 mg EM 4 ( 2 to 6 ) 3 . 4 ( 4 . 9 ) 1 . 7 ( 2 . 8 ) 6 . 9 ( 3 . 5 ) 4 ( 2 to 6 ) 2 . 7 ( 0 . 90 ) 1 . 4 ( 0 . 6 ) 9 . 9 ( 4 . 0 ) PM 4 ( 3 to 6 ) 19 ( 16 ) 13 ( 11 ) 18 ( 16 ) — [ 3 ] — null — null — null Cmax = Maximum serum concentration ; tmax = Time of occurrence of Cmax ; Cavg = Average serum concentration ; t ½ = Terminal elimination half - life .
[ 1 ] Data presented as median ( range ) .
[ 2 ] Parameter dose - normalized from 8 to 4 mg for the single - dose data .
[ 3 ] = not applicable .
Drug Interactions : Potent CYP2D6 inhibitors : Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 activity .
In a study to assess the effect of fluoxetine on the pharmacokinetics of tolterodine immediate release and its metabolites , it was observed that fluoxetine significantly inhibited the metabolism of tolterodine immediate release in extensive metabolizers , resulting in a 4 . 8 fold increase in tolterodine AUC .
There was a 52 % decrease in Cmax and a 20 % decrease in AUC of 5 - hydroxymethyl tolterodine ( 5 - HMT , the pharmacologically active metabolite of tolterodine ) .
Fluoxetine thus alters the pharmacokinetics in patients who would otherwise be CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers of tolterodine immediate release to resemble the pharmacokinetic profile in poor metabolizers .
The sums of unbound serum concentrations of tolterodine immediate release and 5 - HMT are only 25 % higher during the interaction .
No dose adjustment is required when tolterodine and fluoxetine are co - administered .
Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : The effect of a 200 mg daily dose of ketoconazole on the pharmacokinetics of tolterodine immediate release was studied in 8 healthy volunteers , all of whom were CYP2D6 poor metabolizers .
In the presence of ketoconazole , the mean Cmax and AUC of tolterodine increased by 2 - and 2 . 5 - fold , respectively .
Based on these findings , other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors may also lead to increases of tolterodine plasma concentrations .
For patients receiving ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , miconazole , clarithromycin , ritonavir , the recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is 2 mg daily [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Warfarin : In healthy volunteers , coadministration of tolterodine immediate release 4 mg ( 2 mg bid ) for 7 days and a single dose of warfarin 25 mg on day 4 had no effect on prothrombin time , Factor VII suppression , or on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin .
Oral Contraceptives : Tolterodine immediate release 4 mg ( 2 mg bid ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive ( ethinyl estradiol 30 mcg / levo - norgestrel 150 mcg ) as evidenced by the monitoring of ethinyl estradiol and levo - norgestrel over a 2 month period in healthy female volunteers .
Diuretics : Coadministration of tolterodine immediate release up to 8 mg ( 4 mg bid ) for up to 12 weeks with diuretic agents , such as indapamide , hydrochlorothiazide , triamterene , bendroflumethiazide , chlorothiazide , methylchlorothiazide , or furosemide , did not cause any adverse electrocardiographic ( ECG ) effects .
Effect of tolterodine on other drugs metabolized by Cytochrome P450 enzymes : Tolterodine immediate release does not cause clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the major drug - metabolizing CYP enzymes .
In vivo drug - interaction data show that tolterodine immediate release does not result in clinically relevant inhibition of CYP1A2 , 2D6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , or 3A4 as evidenced by lack of influence on the marker drugs caffeine , debrisoquine , S - warfarin , and omeprazole .
In vitro data show that tolterodine immediate release is a competitive inhibitor of CYP2D6 at high concentrations ( Ki 1 . 05 µM ) , while tolterodine immediate release as well as the 5 - HMT are devoid of any significant inhibitory potential regarding the other isoenzymes .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with tolterodine were conducted in mice and rats .
At the maximum tolerated dose in mice ( 30 mg / kg / day ) , female rats ( 20 mg / kg / day ) , and male rats ( 30 mg / kg / day ) , exposure margins were approximately 6 to 9 times , 7 times , and 11 times the clinical exposure to the pharmacologically active components of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ( based on AUC of tolterodine and its 5 - HMT metabolite ) .
At these exposure margins , no increase in tumors was found in either mice or rats .
No mutagenic or genotoxic effects of tolterodine were detected in a battery of in vitro tests , including bacterial mutation assays ( Ames test ) in 4 strains of Salmonella typhimurium and in 2 strains of Escherichia coli , a gene mutation assay in L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells , and chromosomal aberration tests in human lymphocytes .
Tolterodine was also negative in vivo in the bone marrow micronucleus test in the mouse .
In female mice treated for 2 weeks before mating and during gestation with 20 mg / kg / day ( about 9 to 12 times the clinical exposure via AUC ) , neither effects on reproductive performance or fertility were seen .
In male mice , a dose of 30 mg / kg / day did not induce any adverse effects on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 2 mg were evaluated in 29 patients in a Phase 2 dose - effect study .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 4 mg were evaluated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence and frequency in a randomized , placebo - controlled , multicenter , double - blind , Phase 3 , 12 week study .
A total of 507 patients received tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , 4 mg once daily in the morning and 508 received placebo .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 95 % ) and female ( 81 % ) , with a mean age of 61 years ( range , 20 to 93 years ) .
In the study , 642 patients ( 42 % ) were 65 to 93 years of age .
The study included patients known to be responsive to tolterodine immediate release and other anticholinergic medications , however , 47 % of patients never received prior pharmacotherapy for overactive bladder .
At study entry , 97 % of patients had at least 5 urge incontinence episodes per week and 91 % of patients had 8 or more micturitions per day .
The primary efficacy assessment was change in mean number of incontinence episodes per week at week 12 from baseline .
Secondary efficacy measures included change in mean number of micturitions per day and mean volume voided per micturition at week 12 from baseline .
Patients treated with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules experienced a statistically significant decrease in number of urinary incontinence per week from baseline to last assessment ( week 12 ) compared with placebo as well as a decrease in the average daily urinary frequency and an increase in the average urine volume per void .
Mean change from baseline in weekly incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and volume voided between placebo and tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 .
95 % Confidence Intervals ( CI ) for the Difference between Tolterodine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules ( 4 mg daily ) and Placebo for Mean Change at Week 12 from Baseline [ 1 ] Tolterodine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules ( n = 507 ) Placebo ( n = 508 ) [ 2 ] Treatment Difference , vs . Placebo ( 95 % CI ) Number of incontinence episodes / week Mean Baseline 22 . 1 23 . 3 - 4 . 8 [ 3 ] Mean Change from Baseline – 11 . 8 ( SD 17 . 8 ) – 6 . 9 ( SD 15 . 4 ) ( – 6 . 9 , – 2 . 8 ) Number of micturitions / day Mean Baseline 10 . 9 11 . 3 - 0 . 6 null Mean Change from Baseline – 1 . 8 ( SD 3 . 4 ) – 1 . 2 ( SD 2 . 9 ) ( – 1 . 0 , – 0 . 2 ) Volume voided per micturition ( mL ) Mean Baseline 141 136 20 null Mean Change from Baseline 34 ( SD 51 ) 14 ( SD 41 ) ( 14 , 26 ) SD = Standard Deviation [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat analysis .
[ 2 ] 1 to 2 patients missing in placebo group for each efficacy parameter .
[ 3 ] The difference between tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and placebo was statistically significant .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 5995 NDC : 50090 - 5995 - 0 90 CAPSULE , EXTENDED RELEASE in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Antimuscarinic Effects Inform patients that antimuscarinic agents such as tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules may have side effects including blurred vision , dizziness , or drowsiness .
Advise patients not to drive , operate machinery , or do other potentially dangerous activities until they know how tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules affects them .
Manufactured In Israel By : Teva Pharmaceutical Ind .
Ltd .
Jerusalem , 9777600 , Israel Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . B 10 / 2018 PATIENT INFORMATION Tolterodine ( tol TER ah den ) Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules Read the Patient Information that comes with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules before you start using them and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition or your treatment .
Only your doctor can determine if treatment with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules is right for you .
What are tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are a prescription medicine for adults used to treat the following symptoms due to a condition called overactive bladder : • Having a strong need to urinate with leaking or wetting accidents ( urge urinary incontinence ) .
• Having a strong need to urinate right away ( urgency ) .
• Having to urinate often ( frequency ) .
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules did not help the symptoms of overactive bladder when studied in children .
What is overactive bladder ?
Overactive bladder happens when you cannot control your bladder muscle .
When the muscle contracts too often or cannot be controlled , you get symptoms of overactive bladder , which are leakage of urine ( urge urinary incontinence ) , needing to urinate right away ( urgency ) , and needing to urinate often ( frequency ) .
Who should not take tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
Do not take tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules if : • You have trouble emptying your bladder ( also called “ urinary retention ” ) .
• Your stomach empties slowly ( also called “ gastric retention ” ) .
• You have an eye problem called “ uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ” .
• You are allergic to tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules or to any of their ingredients .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients .
• You are allergic to TOVIAZ , which contains fesoterodine .
What should I tell my doctor before starting tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
Before starting tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • Have any stomach or intestinal problems .
• Have trouble emptying your bladder or you have a weak urine stream .
• Have an eye problem called narrow - angle glaucoma .
• Have liver problems .
• Have kidney problems .
• Have a condition called myasthenia gravis .
• Or any family members have a rare heart condition called QT prolongation ( long QT syndrome ) .
• Are pregnant or trying to become pregnant .
It is not known if tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules could harm your unborn baby .
• Are breastfeeding .
It is not known if tolterodine passes into your milk and if it can harm your child .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Other drugs can affect how your body handles tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
Your doctor may use a lower dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules if you are taking : • Certain medicines for fungus or yeast infections such as Nizoral ® ( ketoconazole ) , Sporanox ® ( itraconazole ) , or Monistat ® ( miconazole ) .
• Certain medicines for bacteria infections such as Biaxin ® ( clarithromycin ) .
• Certain medicines for treatment of HIV infection such as Norvir ® ( ritonavir ) , Invirase ® ( saquinavir ) , Reyataz ® ( atazanavir ) .
• Sandimmune ® ( cyclosporine ) or Velban ® ( vinblastine ) .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show your doctor or pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
• Take tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules exactly as prescribed .
Your doctor will prescribe the dose that is right for you .
Do not change your dose unless told to do so by your doctor .
• Take tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules once a day with liquid .
Swallow the whole capsule .
Tell your doctor if you cannot swallow a capsule .
• Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules can be taken with or without food .
• Take tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules the same time each day .
• If you miss a dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , begin taking tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules again the next day .
Do not take 2 doses of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules in the same day .
• If you took more than your prescribed dose of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules , call your doctor or poison control center , or go to the hospital emergency room .
What are possible side effects of tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
Tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules may cause allergic reactions that may be serious .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include swelling of the face , lips , throat , or tongue .
If you experience these symptoms , you should stop taking tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and get emergency medical help right away .
The most common side effects with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules are : • Dry mouth • Constipation • Headache • Stomach pain Medicines like tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules can cause blurred vision , dizziness , and drowsiness .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules affect you .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
These are not all the side effects with tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
• Store tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules at room temperature , ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) 20 ° to 25 ° C . Protect from light .
Keep in a dry place .
• Keep tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not in the patient information leaflet .
Only use tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules the way your doctor tells you .
Do not share them with other people even if they have the same symptoms you have .
They may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules that is written for health professionals .
You can also call 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 .
What are the ingredients in tolterodine tartrate extended - release capsules ?
Active ingredient : tolterodine tartrate Inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose , gelatin , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide black , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , sugar spheres ( which contain sucrose and corn starch ) , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
Additionally , the 2 mg strength contains D & C yellow 10 and FD & C green 3 ; the 4 mg strength contains brilliant blue FCF - FD & C blue 1 .
All brand names listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Manufactured In Israel By : Teva Pharmaceutical Ind .
Ltd .
Jerusalem , 9777600 , Israel Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . B 10 / 2018 TOLTERODINE TARTRATE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
