WARNING : Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine due to a CYP2D6 polymorphism ( see WARNINGS - Codeine Phosphate - Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) of syrup for oral administration contains : Codeine Phosphate … … 10 mg WARNING : May be habit forming .
Triprolidine Hydrochloride … … 1 . 25 mg Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride … … 30 mg Alcohol 4 . 3 % .
Inactive ingredients : sodium benzoate , methylparaben , sodium saccharin , sorbitol , glycerin , citric acid , sodium citrate , caramel flavor and USP purified water .
Triacin - C produces antitussive , antihistaminic and nasal decongestant effects .
The components have the following chemical names and structural formulas : Codeine Phosphate , USP 7 , 8 - didehydro - 4 , 5 α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6α - ol phosphate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) hemihydrate [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triprolidine Hydrochloride , USP ( E ) - 2 - [ 3 ( 1 - Pyrrolidinyl ) - 1 - p - tolylpropenyl ] pyridine monohydrochloride monohydrate [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride , USP Benzenemethanol , α - [ 1 - ( methylamino ) ethyl ] - , [ S - ( R * , R * ) ] - hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Codeine : Codeine probably exerts its antitussive activity by depressing the medullary ( brain ) cough center , thereby raising its threshold for incoming cough impulses .
Codeine is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , with a therapeutic dose reaching peak antitussive effectiveness in about 2 hours and persisting for 4 to 6 hours .
Codeine is rapidly distributed from blood to body tissues and taken up preferentially by parenchymatous organs such as liver , spleen and kidney .
It passes the blood brain barrier and is found in fetal tissue and breast milk .
The drug is not bound by plasma proteins nor is it accumulated in body tissues .
Codeine is metabolized in the liver to morphine and norcodeine , each representing about 10 percent of the administered codeine dose .
About 90 percent of the dose is excreted within 24 hours , primarily through the kidneys .
Urinary excretion products are free and glucuronide - conjugated codeine ( about 70 % ) , free and conjugated norcodeine ( about 10 % ) , free and conjugated morphine ( about 10 % ) , normorphine ( under 4 % ) and hydrocodone ( < 1 % ) .
The remainder of the dose appears in the feces .
Triprolidine : Antihistamines such as triprolidine hydrochloride act as antagonists of the H1 histamine receptor .
Consequently , they prevent histamine from eliciting typical immediate hypersensitivity responses in the nose , eyes , lungs and skin .
Animal distribution studies have shown localization of triprolidine in lung , spleen and kidney tissue .
Liver microsome studies have revealed the presence of several metabolites with an oxidized product of the toluene methyl group predominating .
Pseudoephedrine : Pseudoephedrine acts as an indirect sympathomimetic agent by stimulating sympathetic ( adrenergic ) nerve endings to release norepinephrine .
Norepinephrine in turn stimulates alpha and beta receptors throughout the body .
The action of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride is apparently more specific for the blood vessels of the upper respiratory tract and less specific for the blood vessels of the systemic circulation .
The vasoconstriction elicited at these sites results in the shrinkage of swollen tissues in the sinuses and nasal passages .
Pseudoephedrine is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Considerable variation in half - life has been observed ( from about 4 ½ to 10 hours ) , which is attributed to individual differences in absorption and excretion .
Excretion rates are also altered by urine pH , increasing with acidification and decreasing with alkalinization .
As a result , mean half - life falls to about 4 hours at pH 5 and increases to 12 to 13 hours at pH 8 .
After administration of a 60 mg tablet , 87 to 96 % of the pseudoephedrine is cleared from the body within 24 hours .
The drug is distributed to body tissues and fluids , including fetal tissue , breast milk and the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
About 55 to 75 % of an administered dose is excreted unchanged in the urine ; the remainder is apparently metabolized in the liver to inactive compounds by N - demethylation , parahydroxylation and oxidative deamination .
PRECAUTIONS General : Triacin - C should be prescribed with caution for certain special - risk patients , such as the elderly or debilitated , and for those with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function , gallbladder disease or gallstones , respiratory impairment , cardiac arrhythmias , history of bronchial asthma , prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture , and in patients known to be taking other antitussive , antihistamine or decongestant medications .
Patients ’ self - medication habits should be investigated to determine their use of such medications .
Triacin - C is intended for short - term use only .
Information For Patients : Advise patients that some people have a genetic variation that results in codeine changing into morphine more rapidly and completely than other people .
Most people are unaware of whether they are an ultra - rapid codeine metabolizer or not .
These higher - than - normal levels of morphine in the blood may lead to life - threatening or fatal respiratory depression or signs of overdose such as extreme sleepiness , confusion , or shallow breathing .
Children with this genetic variation who were prescribed codeine after tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy for obstructive sleep apnea may be at greatest risk based on reports of several deaths in this population due to respiratory depression .
As a result , codeine is contraindicated in all children who undergo tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy .
Advise caregivers of children receiving codeine for other reasons to monitor for signs of respiratory depression ( see WARNINGS – Death Related to Ultra - Rapid metabolism of Codeine to Morphine ) .
1 .
Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car , operating dangerous machinery or hazardous appliances .
2 .
Patients with a history of glaucoma , peptic ulcer , urinary retention or pregnancy should be cautioned before starting this product .
3 .
Patients should be told not to take alcohol , sleeping pills , sedatives or tranquilizers while taking Triacin - C .
4 .
Antihistamines may cause dizziness , drowsiness , dry mouth , blurred vision , weakness , nausea , headache or nervousness in some patients .
5 .
Patients should be told to store this medicine in a tightly closed container in a dry , cool place away from heat or direct sunlight and out of the reach of children .
6 .
Nursing Mothers – refer to following section titled “ Nursing Mothers . ”
( see WARNINGS – Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine ) .
This product should not be used by persons intolerant to sympathomimetics used for the relief of nasal or sinus congestion .
Such drugs include ephedrine , epinephrine , phenylephrine and phenylpropanolamine .
Symptoms of intolerance include drowsiness , dizziness , weakness , difficulty in breathing , tenseness , muscle tremors or palpitations .
Codeine may be habit - forming when used over long periods or in high doses .
Patients should take the drug only for as long , in the amounts , and as frequently as prescribed .
Drug Interactions : Triacin - C may enhance the effects of : 1 .
Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ; 2 .
other narcotic analgesics , alcohol , general anesthetics , tranquilizers , sedative - hypnotics , surgical skeletal muscle relaxants , or other CNS depressants , by causing increased CNS depression .
This product may diminish the antihypertensive effects of guanethidine , bethanidine , methyldopa and reserpine .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Codeine : Narcotic administration may increase serum amylase levels .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility : No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether the components of Triacin - C have a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects – Pregnancy category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Triacin - C .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Teratology studies have been conducted with the three ingredients of Triacin - C .
Pseudoephedrine studies were conducted in rats at doses up to 150 times the human dose ; triprolidine was studied in rats and rabbits at doses up to 125 times the human dose , and codeine studies were conducted in rats and rabbits at doses up to 150 times the human dose .
No evidence of teratogenic harm to the fetus was revealed in any of these studies .
However , overt signs of toxicity were observed in the dams which received pseudoephedrine .
This was reflected in reduced average weight and length and rate of skeletal ossification in their fetuses .
Nursing Mothers : The components of Triacin - C are excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from maternal ingestion of this product , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
( see WARNINGS – Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine ) .
Pediatric Use : Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children with obstructive sleep apnea who received codeine in the post - operative period following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine ( i . e . , multiple copies of the gene for cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 or high morphine concentrations ) .
These children may be particularly sensitive to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine that has been rapidly metabolized to morphine .
Codeine is contraindicated for post - operative pain management in these patients ( see WARNINGS - Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) As in adults , the combination of an antihistamine , sympathomimetic amine and codeine can elicit either mild stimulation or mild sedation in pediatric patients .
In pediatric patients particularly , the ingredients in this drug product in overdosage may produce hallucinations , convulsions and death .
Symptoms of toxicity in pediatric patients may include fixed dilated pupils , flushed face , dry mouth , fever , excitation , hallucinations , ataxia , incoordination , athetosis , tonic clonic convulsions and postictal depression , ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and OVERDOSAGE sections ) .
Use In Elderly ( Approximately 60 Years Or Older ) : The ingredients in Triacin - C are more likely to cause adverse reactions in elderly patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Triacin - C is indicated for temporary relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms , including nasal congestion , associated with allergy or the common cold .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Triacin - C is contraindicated under the following conditions : Codeine sulfate is contraindicated for postoperative pain management in children who have undergone tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy .
Use In Newborn or Premature Infants This drug should not be used in newborn or premature infants .
Use In Lower Respiratory Disease Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract symptoms , including asthma .
Hypersensitivity To ( 1 ) codeine phosphate or other narcotics ; ( 2 ) triprolidine hydrochloride or other antihistamines of similar chemical structure ; or ( 3 ) sympathomimetic amines , including pseudoephedrine .
Sympathomimetic amines are contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension , severe coronary artery disease and in patients on monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
WARNINGS Deaths Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine in the post operative period following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra rapid metabolizers of codeine ( i . e . , multiple copies of the gene for cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 2D6 or high morphine concentrations ) .
Deaths have also occurred in nursing infants who were exposed to high levels of morphine in breast milk because their mothers were ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine ( see PRECAUTIONS - Nursing Mothers ) .
Some individuals may be ultra - rapid metabolizers because of a specific CYP2D6 genotype ( gene duplications denoted as * 1 / * 1 xN or * 1 / * 2 xN ) .
The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 0 . 5 to 1 % in Chinese and Japanese , 0 . 5 to 1 % in Hispanics , 1 to 10 % in Caucasians , 3 % in African Americans , and 16 to 28 % in North Africans , Ethiopians , and Arabs .
Data are not available for other ethnic groups .
These individuals convert codeine into its active metabolite , morphine , more rapidly and completely than other people .
This rapid conversion results in higher than expected serum morphine levels .
Even at labeled dosage regimens , individuals who are ultra - rapid metabolizers may have life - threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose ( such as extreme sleepiness , confusion , or shallow breathing ) ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post - tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine that has been rapidly metabolized to morphine .
Codeine is contraindicated for post - operative pain management in all pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
When prescribing codeine - containing drugs , healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose .
Triacin - C should be used with considerable caution in patients with increased intraocular pressure ( narrow angle glaucoma ) , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , bladder neck obstruction , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , ischemic heart disease , and hyperthyroidism .
In the presence of head injury or other intracranial lesions , the respiratory depressant effects of codeine and other narcotics may be markedly enhanced , as well as their capacity for elevating cerebrospinal fluid pressure .
Narcotics also produce other CNS depressant effects , such as drowsiness , that may further obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Codeine or other narcotics may obscure signs on which to judge the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ( The most frequent adverse reactions are underlined . )
General : Dryness of mouth , dryness of nose , dryness of throat , urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration and chills .
Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , anxiety , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesias , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , hysteria , neuritis , convulsions , CNS depression , hallucination .
G . I . System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
G . U . System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness , respiratory depression .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Like other medications containing a narcotic , Triacin - C is controlled by the Drug Enforcement Administration .
It is classified under Schedule V . Codeine can produce drug dependence of the morphine type , and therefore it has a potential for being abused .
Psychic dependence , physical dependence and tolerance may develop on repeated administration .
The dependence liability of codeine has been found to be too small to permit a full definition of its characteristics .
Studies indicate that addiction to codeine is extremely uncommon and requires very high parenteral doses .
When dependence on codeine occurs at therapeutic doses , it appears to require from one to two months to develop , and withdrawal symptoms are mild .
Most patients on long - term oral codeine therapy show no signs of physical dependence upon abrupt withdrawal .
OVERDOSAGE Since Triacin - C is comprised of three pharmacologically different compounds , it is difficult to predict the exact manifestation of symptoms in a given individual .
Reaction to an overdosage of this product may vary from CNS depression to stimulation .
A detailed description of symptoms which are likely to appear after ingestion of an excess of the individual components follows : Overdosage with codeine can cause transient euphoria , drowsiness , dizziness , weariness , diminution of sensitivity , loss of sensation , vomiting , transient excitement in children , and occasionally in adult women , miosis progressing to nonreactive pinpoint pupils , itching sometimes with skin rashes and urticaria and clammy skin with mottled cyanosis .
In more severe cases , muscular relaxation with depressed or absent superficial and deep reflexes and a positive Babinski sign may appear .
Marked slowing of the respiratory rate with inadequate pulmonary ventilation and consequent cyanosis may occur .
Terminal signs include shock , pulmonary edema , hypostatic or aspiration pneumonia and respiratory arrest , with death occurring within 6 - 12 hours following ingestion .
Overdoses of antihistamines may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or possibly death , especially in infants and children .
Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
Overdosage with triprolidine may produce reactions varying from depression to stimulation of the Central Nervous System ( CNS ) ; the latter is particularly likely in children .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms ( dry mouth , fixed dilated pupils , flushing , tachycardia , hallucinations , convulsions , urinary retention , cardiac arrhythmias and coma ) may occur .
Overdosage with pseudoephedrine can cause excessive CNS stimulation resulting in excitement , nervousness , anxiety , tremor , restlessness and insomnia .
Other effects include tachycardia , hypertension , pallor , mydriasis , hyperglycemia and urinary retention .
Severe overdosage may cause tachypnea or hyperpnea , hallucinations , convulsions , or delirium , but in some individuals there may be CNS depression with somnolence , stupor or respiratory depression .
Arrhythmias ( including ventricular fibrillation ) may lead to hypotension and circulatory collapse .
Severe hypokalemia can occur , probably due to compartmental shift rather than depletion of potassium .
No organ damage or significant metabolic derangement is associated with pseudoephedrine overdosage .
The toxic plasma concentration of codeine is not known with certainty .
Experimental production of mild to moderate CNS depression in healthy , nontolerant subjects occurs at plasma concentrations of 0 . 5 - 1 . 9µg / mL when codeine is given by intravenous infusion .
The single lethal dose of codeine in adults is estimated to be from 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 gram .
It is also estimated that 5 mg / kg could be fatal in children .
The LD50 ( single , oral dose ) of triprolidine is 163 to 308 mg / kg in the mouse ( depending upon strain ) and 840 mg / kg in the rat .
Insufficient data are available to estimate the toxic and lethal doses of triprolidine in humans .
No reports of acute poisoning with triprolidine have appeared .
The LD50 ( single , oral dose ) of pseudoephedrine is 726 mg / kg in the mouse , 2206 mg / kg in the rat and 1177 mg / kg in the rabbit .
The toxic and lethal concentrations in human biologic fluids are not known .
Excretion rates increase with urine acidification and decrease with alkalinization .
Few reports of toxicity due to pseudoephedrine have been published and no case of fatal overdosage is known .
Therapy , if instituted within 4 hours of overdosage , is aimed at reducing further absorption of the drug .
In the conscious patient , vomiting should be induced even though it may have occurred spontaneously .
If vomiting cannot be induced , gastric lavage is indicated .
Adequate precautions must be taken to protect against aspiration , especially in infants and children .
Charcoal slurry or other suitable agents should be instilled into the stomach after vomiting or lavage .
Saline cathartics or milk of magnesia may be of additional benefit .
In the unconscious patient , the airway should be secured with a cuffed endotracheal tube before attempting to evacuate the gastric contents .
Intensive supportive and nursing care is indicated , as for any comatose patient .
If breathing is significantly impaired , maintenance of an adequate airway and mechanical support of respiration is the most effective means of providing adequate oxygenation .
Hypotension is an early sign of impending cardiovascular collapse and should be treated vigorously .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
Convulsions should be controlled by careful administration of diazepam or short - acting barbiturate , repeated as necessary .
Physostigmine may be also considered for use in controlling centrally mediated convulsions .
Ice packs and cooling sponge baths , not alcohol , can aid in reducing the fever commonly seen in children .
For codeine , continuous stimulation that arouses , but does not exhaust , the patient is useful in preventing coma .
Continuous or intermittent oxygen therapy is usually indicated , while naloxone is useful as a codeine antidote .
Close nursing care is essential .
Saline cathartics , such as milk of magnesia , help to dilute the concentration of the drugs in the bowel by drawing water into the gut , thereby hastening drug elimination .
Adrenergic receptor blocking agents are antidotes to pseudoephedrine .
In practice , the most useful is the beta - blocker propranolol , which is indicated when there are signs of cardiac toxicity .
There are no specific antidotes to triprolidine .
Histamine should not be given .
Pseudoephedrine and codeine are theoretically dialyzable , but the procedures have not been clinically established .
In severe cases of overdosage , it is essential to monitor both the heart ( by electrocardiograph ) and plasma electrolytes and to give intravenous potassium as indicated by these continuous controls .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension , and excessive CNS stimulation may be counteracted with parenteral diazepam .
Stimulants should not be used .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Usual Dose : Teaspoonfuls ( 5 mL ) Adults and children 12 years and older 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 8 teaspoonfuls ( 40 mL ) in 24 hours .
Children 6 to under 12 years 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 4 teaspoonfuls ( 20 mL ) in 24 hours .
Children 2 to under 6 years ½ teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 2 teaspoonfuls HOW SUPPLIED Triacin - C , is supplied in a colorless , caramel flavored vehicle in 16 fl oz pint ( 473 mL ) size bottles .
Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) of syrup for oral administration contains : Codeine Phosphate … … 10 mg WARNING : May be habit forming .
Triprolidine Hydrochloride … … 1 . 25 mg Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride … … 30 mg Alcohol 4 . 3 % .
Inactive ingredients : sodium benzoate , methylparaben , sodium saccharin , sorbitol , glycerin , citric acid , sodium citrate , caramel flavor and USP purified water .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
.
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Rx Only .
Manufactured for STI Pharma LLC Langhorne , PA 19047 Rev 07 / 15 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 ml ( 1 Pint Bottle ) NDC 54879 - 005 - 16 TRIACIN - C [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
