1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desonate is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months of age and older .
Patients should be instructed to use Desonate for the minimum amount of time as necessary to achieve the desired results because of the potential for Desonate to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Treatment should not exceed 4 consecutive weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Desonate ® is a corticosteroid indicated for the topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer to the affected areas two times daily and rub in gently .
Discontinue use when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Treatment beyond 4 consecutive weeks is not recommended .
Do not use with occlusive dressings .
Avoid contact with eyes or other mucous membranes .
For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply as a thin layer to the affected areas two times daily and rub in gently .
( 2 ) • Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
( 2 ) • Should not be used with occlusive dressings .
( 2 ) • Treatment beyond 4 consecutive weeks is not recommended .
( 2 ) For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Gel , 0 . 05 % ; ( 0 . 5 mg / g ) desonide in a translucent to opaque gel Gel , 0 . 05 % ; ( 0 . 5 mg / g ) desonide in a translucent to opaque gel 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Desonate is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
History of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome and unmask latent diabetes .
( 5 . 1 ) • Systemic absorption may require evaluation for HPA axis suppression ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop ( 5 . 1 ) • Potent corticosteroids , use on large areas , prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption ( 5 . 1 ) • Local adverse reactions may include atrophy , striae , irritation , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 , 6 ) • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
The effect of Desonate on HPA axis function was investigated in pediatric subjects , 6 months to 6 years old , with atopic dermatitis covering at least 35 % of their body , who were treated with Desonate twice daily for 4 weeks .
One of 37 subjects ( 3 % ) displayed adrenal suppression after 4 weeks of use , based on the cosyntropin stimulation test .
As follow - up evaluation of the subject ' s adrenal axis was not performed , it is unknown whether the suppression was reversible [ see Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of Desonate due to their larger skin surface - to - body mass ratios [ see Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include skin atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Concomitant Skin Infections If concomitant skin infections are present or develop during treatment , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Desonate should be discontinued until the infection is adequately controlled .
5 . 4 Skin Irritation If irritation develops , Desonate should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In controlled clinical studies of 425 Desonate treated subjects and 157 Vehicle - treated subjects , adverse events occurred at the application site in 3 % of subjects treated with Desonate and the incidence rate was not higher compared with vehicle - treated subjects .
The most common local adverse events in Desonate treated subjects were application site burning in 1 % ( 4 / 425 ) and rash in 1 % ( 3 / 425 ) followed by application site pruritus in < 1 % ( 2 / 425 ) .
Adverse events that resulted in premature discontinuation of study drug in Desonate treated subjects were telangiectasia and worsening of atopic dermatitis in one subject each .
Additional adverse events observed during clinical trials for patients treated with Desonate included headache in 2 % ( 8 / 425 ) compared with 1 % ( 2 / 157 ) in those treated with vehicle .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) are headache and application site burning .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Intendis , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 463 - 3634 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Safety and effectiveness of Desonate in pediatric patients less than 3 months of age have not been evaluated , and therefore its use in this age group is not recommended .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Desonate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
No reproductive studies in animals have been performed with Desonate .
Dermal embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with a desonide cream , 0 . 05 % formulation .
Topical doses of 0 . 2 , 0 . 6 , and 2 . 0 g cream / kg / day of a desonide cream , 0 . 05 % formulation or 2 . 0 g / kg of the cream base were administered topically to pregnant rats ( gestational days 6 - 15 ) and pregnant rabbits ( gestational days 6 - 18 ) .
Maternal body weight loss was noted at all dose levels of the desonide cream , 0 . 05 % formulation in rats and rabbits .
Teratogenic effects characteristic of corticosteroids were noted in both species .
The desonide cream , 0 . 05 % formulation was teratogenic in rats at topical doses of 0 . 6 and 2 . 0 g cream / kg / day and in rabbits at a topical dose of 2 . 0 g cream / kg / day .
No teratogenic effects were noted for the desonide cream , 0 . 05 % formulation at a topical dose of 0 . 2 g cream / kg / day in rats and 0 . 6 g cream / kg / day in rabbits .
These doses ( 0 . 2 g cream / kg / day and 0 . 6 g cream / kg / day ) are similar to the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Desonate is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Desonate in pediatric patients less than 3 months of age have not been evaluated , and therefore its use in this age group is not recommended .
The effect of Desonate on HPA axis function was investigated in pediatric subjects , with atopic dermatitis covering at least 35 % of their body , who were treated with Desonate twice daily for 4 weeks .
One of 37 subjects ( 3 % ) displayed adrenal suppression after 4 weeks of use , based on the cosyntropin stimulation test [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In controlled clinical studies in subjects 3 months to 18 years of age , 425 subjects were treated with Desonate and 157 subjects were treated with vehicle [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects , including striae , have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Desonate did not include patients aged 65 and older to determine if they respond differently than younger patients .
Treatment of this patient population should reflect the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Desonate can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Desonate contains desonide [ ( pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 11β , 16α ) ] - a synthetic nonfluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
Chemically , desonide is C24H32O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Desonide has the molecular weight of 416 . 52 .
It is a white to off - white odorless powder which is soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in water .
Each gram of Desonate contains 0 . 5 mg of desonide in an aqueous gel base of purified water , glycerin , propylene glycol , edetate disodium dihydrate , methylparaben , propylparaben , sodium hydroxide , and Carbopol ® 981 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of desonide is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In an HPA axis suppression study , one of 37 ( 3 % ) pediatric subjects , 6 months to 6 years old , with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis covering at least 35 % body surface area who applied Desonate experienced suppression of the adrenal glands following 4 weeks of therapy [ see Warnings And Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
A follow - up evaluation of the subject ' s adrenal axis was not performed ; it is unknown whether the suppression was reversible .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including product formulation and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
They are metabolized primarily in the liver and then are excreted by the kidneys .
Some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or photoco - carcinogenic potential of Desonate or the effect of desonide on fertility .
Desonide revealed no evidence of mutagenic potential based on the results of an in vitro genotoxicity test ( Ames assay ) and an in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
Desonide was positive without S9 activation and was equivocal with S9 activation in an in vitro mammalian cell mutagenesis assay ( L5178YITK + mouse lymphoma assay ) .
A dose response trend was not noted in this assay .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized vehicle - controlled clinical studies , subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis were treated twice daily for 4 weeks with either Desonate or vehicle .
Treatment success was defined as achieving clear or almost clear on the Investigator ' s Global Severity Score ( IGSS ) with at least a 2 - point change ( decrease ) from the subject ' s baseline IGSS when compared to the Week 4 IGSS .
The results of the 2 clinical trials are summarized in Table 1 : Table 1 : Subjects Achieving Treatment SuccessClinical Trial 1 Desonate N = 289 Vehicle N = 92 128 ( 44 % ) 13 ( 14 % ) Clinical Trial 2 Desonate N = 136 Vehicle N = 65 38 ( 28 % ) 4 ( 6 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Desonate is a translucent to opaque gel supplied in 60 g tubes in cartons containing 1 x 60 g tube ( NDC 10922 - 828 - 06 ) , or a 2 x 60 g tube Twin Pack ( NDC 10922 - 828 - 12 ) .
Storage : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Unless directed by the physician , the treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive .
• Unless directed by a physician , this medication should not be used on the underarm or groin areas of pediatric patients .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use Desonate in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Desonate should not be applied in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with Desonate without first consulting with the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , contact the physician .
© 2010 , Intendis , Inc .
All rights reserved .
June 2010 Manufactured by Contract Pharmaceuticals Limited , Buffalo , NY 14213 Distributed by : Intendis Morristown , NJ 07962 Intendis is part of the Bayer Group 6706903 The Desonate logo is a registered trademark of Intendis , Inc .
Covered by US Patent No . 6 , 387 , 383 The following is a representative example of Desonate labeling .
See the " How Supplied " section for a complete listing of all components .
Desonate 60 g Carton NDC 10922 - 828 - 06 Desonate ® ( desonide ) Gel 0 . 05 % Rx Only Net Wt 60 g For Topical Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic , Oral , or Intravaginal Use .
INTENDIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
