DESCRIPTION Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each mL of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % contains : Active : tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % ( 0 . 1 mg ) .
Inactives : boric acid , sodium sulfate , sodium chloride , tyloxapol , sodium hydroxide and / or sulfuric acid ( to adjust pH ) and purified water .
Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % has a pH range between 7 . 0 and 8 . 0 .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MW = 467 . 2 Molecular Formula C 18 H 37 N 5 O 9 Chemical name : 0 - { 3 - amino - 3 - deoxy - α - D - gluco - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) } - 0 - { 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribohexopyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) } - 2 - deoxystreptamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A - beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
If a sensitivity reaction to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
Information For Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in three types of animals at doses up to thirty - three times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 months has not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % .
Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Other adverse reactions have not been reported from Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % therapy ; however , if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics , care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration .
OVERDOSAGE Clinically apparent signs and symptoms of an overdose of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % ( punctate keratitis , erythema , increased lacrimation , edema and lid itching ) may be similar to adverse reaction effects seen in some patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease , instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections , instill two drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
HOW SUPPLIED 5 mL sterile solution is packaged in a 5 mL white plastic DROP - TAINER * bottle with a plastic dispensing plug and white plastic closure ( NDC 61314 - 643 - 05 ) containing tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg / mL ) .
Storage : Store at 2 ° - 25 ° C ( 36 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Rx Only * DROP - TAINER is a registered trademark of Alcon Manufacturing , Ltd .
9007228 - 1011 SANDOZ Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Printed in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
