Active ingredients Cetylpyridinium chloride 0 . 07 % purpose Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis warnings for this product Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • adults and children 6 years & older : rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfuls ) twice a day • do not swallow • children 6 years to under 12 years of age : supervise use • when used after brushing , rinse mouth with water first • children under 6 years of age : do not use Other information • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , flavor , poloxamer 188 , sodium saccharin , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , sucralose , benzoic acid , blue 1 To OPEN : 1 .
Remove Printed Tamper Evident Neckband 2 .
Squeeze both tabs at Base of cap while turning the cap until loose .
To CLOSE : Place cap back on bottle and turn cap until it clicks twice and feels secure .
Sealed with printed neckband for your protection * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Crest Pro - Health Rinse Manufactured by Vi - Jon , Inc . , One Swan Drive . , Smyrna , TN37167 For Shopko Stores Operating Co . , LLC www . shopko . com For consumer questions call 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Shopko Satisfaction Guaranteed By Refund Or Exchange principal display panel SHOPKO Compare to the active ingredients of Crest Antiseptic Alcohol Free Oral Rinse Vivid Mint Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Mouthrinse Kills germs Helps prevent plaque Helps prevent gingivitis Helps keep teeth feeling clean Freshens breath No burn of alcohol 33 . 8 FL OZ ( 1000 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
