DESCRIPTION Albuterol Tablets , USP contain albuterol sulfate , USP , the racemic form of albuterol and a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Albuterol sulfate has the chemical name 4 - hydroxy - 3 - hydroxymethyl - α - [ ( tert - butylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol , sulfate and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of albuterol sulfate is 576 , and the molecular formula is ( C13 H21N O3 ) 2 • H2S O4 .
Albuterol sulfate , USP is a white or practically white powder , freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol , in chloroform , and ether .
The World Health Organization recommended name for albuterol base is salbutamol .
Each Albuterol tablet for oral administration contains 2 or 4 mg of albuterol as 2 . 4 mg or 4 . 8 mg of albuterol sulfate , USP respectively .
The inactive ingredients for Albuterol tablets , 2 mg and 4 mg include : co - processed starch , lactose hydrate , magnesium stearate , partially pregelatinized maize starch and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta2 - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established ( see WARNINGS ) .
The pharmacologic effects of beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , including albuterol tablets , are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta - adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase , the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
Increased cyclic AMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
Albuterol tablets have been shown in most controlled clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Albuterol is longer acting than isoproterenol in most patients by any route of administration because it is not a substrate for the cellular uptake processes for catecholamines nor for catechol - O - methyl transferase .
Preclinical Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Albuterol tablets are rapidly absorbed after oral administration of one 4 mg albuterol tablet in normal volunteers .
Maximum plasma concentrations of about 18 ng / mL of albuterol are achieved within 2 hours , and the drug is eliminated with a half - life of about 5 hours .
In other studies , the analysis of urine samples of patients given 8 mg of tritiated albuterol tablets orally showed that 76 % of the dose was excreted over 3 days , with the majority of the dose being excreted within the first 24 hours .
Sixty percent of this radioactivity was shown to be the metabolite .
Feces collected over this period contained 4 % of the administered dose .
Clinical Trials In controlled clinical trials in patients with asthma , the onset of improvement in pulmonary function , as measured by maximum midexpiratory flow rate ( MMEF ) , was noted within 30 minutes after a dose of Albuterol tablets , with peak improvement occurring between 2 and 3 hours .
In controlled clinical trials in which measurements were conducted for 6 hours , clinically significant improvement ( defined as maintaining a 15 % or more increase in forced expiratory volume in 1 second [ FEV1 ] and a 20 % or more increase in MMEF over baseline values ) was observed in 60 % of patients at 4 hours and in 40 % at 6 hours .
In other single - dose , controlled clinical trials , clinically significant improvement was observed in at least 40 % of the patients at 8 hours .
No decrease in the effectiveness of albuterol tablets was reported in patients who received long - term treatment with the drug in uncontrolled studies for periods up to 6 months .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Albuterol tablets are indicated for the relief of bronchospasm in adults and children 6 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol , or any of their components .
WARNINGS Paradoxical Bronchospasm Albuterol tablets can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , Albuterol tablets should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
Cardiovascular Effects Albuterol tablets , like all other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of albuterol tablets at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , albuterol tablets , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours , or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of albuterol tablets than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Use of Anti - Inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol tablets , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm and oropharyngeal edema .
Albuterol tablets , like other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes .
Rarely , erythema multiforme and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have been associated with the administration of oral albuterol sulfate in children .
PRECAUTIONS General Albuterol tablets , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen in individual patients and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Information for patients The action of albuterol tablets may last up to 8 hours or longer .
Albuterol tablets should not be taken more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of albuterol tablets without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with albuterol tablets becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms get worse , and / or you need to take the product more frequently than usual , you should seek medical attention immediately .
While you are taking albuterol tablets , other asthma medications and inhaled drugs should be taken only as directed by your physician .
Common adverse effects include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , and tremor or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about use of albuterol tablets .
Effective and safe use of albuterol tablets includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Drug interactions The concomitant use of albuterol tablets and other oral sympathomimetic agents is not recommended since such combined use may lead to deleterious cardiovascular effects .
This recommendation does not preclude the judicious use of an aerosol bronchodilator of the adrenergic stimulant type in patients receiving albuterol tablets .
Such concomitant use , however , should be individualized and not given on a routine basis .
If regular coadministration is required , then alternative therapy should be considered .
Monamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants Albuterol tablets should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol tablets on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Beta - Blockers Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as albuterol tablets , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a significant dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at dietary doses of 2 , 10 and 50 mg / kg ( approximately 1 / 2 , 3 , and 15 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis or , 2 / 5 , 2 and 10 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on a mg / m2basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg , ( approximately 65 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis , or , approximately 50 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in the Golden hamster , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg , ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis , or , approximately 7 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test with or without metabolic activation using tester strains S . typhimurium TA1537 , TA1538 , and TA98 or E . Coli WP2 , WP2uvrA , and WP67 .
No forward mutation was seen in yeast strain S . cerevisiae S9 nor any mitotic gene conversion in yeast strain S . cerevisiae JD1 with or without metabolic activation .
Fluctuation assays in S . typhimurium TA98 and E . Coli WP2 , both with metabolic activation , were negative .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay at intraperitoneal doses of up to 200 mg / kg .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Albuterol tablets have been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice at subcutaneous ( sc ) doses of 0 . 025 , 0 . 25 , and 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 3 / 1000 , 3 / 100 , and 3 / 10 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) , showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation at the lowest , 0 . 025 mg / kg .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) subcutaneously ( approximately 3 / 10 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol tablets were administered orally at a 50 mg / kg dose ( approximately 25 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Albuterol tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been rarely reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol tablets .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
No consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , and a relationship between albuterol tablets use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Use in Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of albuterol tablets for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Tocolysis Albuterol tablets have not been approved for the management of preterm labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol tablets are administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including maternal pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta2 - agonists , including albuterol tablets .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol tablets in some animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below 6 years of age have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reactions to albuterol tablets were : Percent Incidence of Adverse Reactions Reaction Incidence Percent Central nervous system Nervousness 20 % Tremor 20 % Headache 7 % Sleeplessness 2 % Weakness 2 % Dizziness 2 % Drowsiness < 1 % Restlessness < 1 % Irritability < 1 % Cardiovascular Tachycardia 5 % Palpitations 5 % Chest discomfort < 1 % Flushing < 1 % Musculoskeletal Muscle cramps 3 % Gastrointestinal Nausea 2 % Genitourinary Difficulty in micturition < 1 % Rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm and oropharyngeal edema have been reported after the use of albuterol tablets .
In addition , albuterol tablets , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypertension , angina , vomiting , vertigo , central nervous system stimulation , unusual taste , and drying or irritation of the oropharynx .
The reactions are generally transient in nature , and it is usually not necessary to discontinue treatment with albuterol tablets .
In selected cases , however , dosage may be reduced temporarily ; after the reaction has subsided , dosage should be increased in small increments to the optimal dosage .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats / min , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and sleeplessness .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of albuterol tablets .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of albuterol tablets together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of albuterol tablets .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 250 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis , or , approximately 200 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous ( sc ) median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 110 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 90 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In small young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 500 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis , or approximately 400 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The following dosages of albuterol tablets are expressed in terms of albuterol base .
Usual Dosage Adults and Children Over 12 Years of Age The usual starting dosage for adults and children 12 years and older is 2 or 4 mg three or four times a day .
Children 6 to 12 Years of Age : The usual starting dosage for children 6 to 12 years age is 2 mg three or four times a day .
Dosage Adjustment Adults and Children Over 12 Years of Age For adults and children 12 years and older , a dosage above 4 mg four times a day should be usedonly when the patient fails to respond .
If a favorable response does not occur with the 4 mg initial dosage , it should be cautiously increased stepwise up to a maximum of 8 mg four times a day as tolerated .
Children 6 to 12 Years of Age Who Fail to Respond to the Initial Starting Dosage of 2 mg Four Times a Day For children from 6 to 12 years of age who fail to respond to the initial starting dosage of 2 mg four times a day , the dosage may be cautiously increased stepwise , but not to exceed 24 mg / day ( given in divided doses ) .
Elderly Patients and Those Sensitive to Beta - adrenergic Stimulators An initial dosage of 2 mg three or four times a day is recommended for elderly patients and for those with a history of unusual sensitivity to beta - adrenergic stimulators .
If adequate bronchodilation is not obtained , dosage may be increased gradually to as much as 8 mg three or four times a day .
The total daily dose should not exceed 32 mg in adults and children over 12 years and older .
HOW SUPPLIED Albuterol Tablets , USP for oral administration contains 2 mg or 4 mg albuterol as 2 . 4 mg or 4 . 8 mg of albuterol sulfate , USP respectively .
Albuterol Tablets , USP containing 2 mg albuterol as the sulfate are white , round shaped , scored tablets debossed with “ AC 2 ” on one side and plain on other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 64980 - 442 - 01 Bottles of 100 tablets NDC 64980 - 442 - 50 Bottles of 500 tablets Albuterol Tablets , USP containing 4 mg albuterol as the sulfate are white , round shaped , scored tablets debossed with “ AC 4 ” on one side and plain on other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 64980 - 443 - 01 Bottles of 100 tablets NDC 64980 - 443 - 50 Bottles of 500 tablets Store Albuterol Tablets , USP at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP for Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Manufactured by : Appco Pharma LLC .
Piscataway , New Jersey 08854 Distributed by : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Saddle Brook , NJ 07663 Revised : 01 / 2022 200229 PIR44350 - 00 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 MG - 100 ' S COUNT RisingNDC 64980 - 442 - 01 Albuterol Tablets , USP 2 mg 100 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 MG - 500 ' S COUNT RisingNDC 64980 - 442 - 50 Albuterol Tablets , USP 2 mg 500 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 MG - 100 ' S COUNT RisingNDC 64980 - 443 - 01 Albuterol Tablets , USP 4 mg 100 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 MG - 500 ' S COUNT RisingNDC 64980 - 443 - 50 Albuterol Tablets , USP 4 mg 500 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
