Cortizone - 10 ® Easy Relief Applicator Active Ingredient : Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
• if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , do not use this or any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area by placing applicator on skin , press firmly and hold to activate the dispensing of liquid .
Do not use more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 2 years of age : do not use , ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel extract , citric acid , disodium EDTA , ethoxydiglycol , glycerin , hydroxyethyl cellulose , maltodextrin , menthyl lactate , methyl gluceth - 20 , PEG - 8 , SD alcohol 40 - 2 ( 48 % ) , sodium citrate , water KEEP CARTON AS IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION .
Close cap tightly after use .
0042734 - 03 * Refers to the ingredient hydrocortisone CHATTEM ® Distributed by : Chattem , Inc .
P . O . Box 2219 , Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 U . S . A . © 2008 www . chattem . com Principal Display Panel MAXIMUM STRENGTH Cortizone ● 10 ® EASY RELIEFTM APPLICATOR Targets Itch Fast !
• Insect Bites • Redness & Inflammation • Skin Irritation & Rashes • No Mess with Healing Aloe 1 % HYDROCORTISONE ANTI - ITCHLIQUID 1 . 25 fl oz ( 36 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
