Active ingredient : PYRITHIONE ZINC Inactive ingredients : Water , Ammonium Laureth Sulfate , Potassium Cocoyl Glycinate , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Lauramide DEA , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Propylene Glycol , Copper Tripeptide - 1 , Panthenol , Diglycerin , Polyquaternium - 10 , Pyrrolidinyl Diaminopy - rimidine Oxide , Salicylic Acid , Flavor , Polyquaternium - 7 , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Extract , Sesamum Indicum ( Sesame ) Seed Extract , Oryza Sativa ( Bran ) Rice Extract , Camellia Japonica Flower Extract , Morus Alba Root Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Citric Acid , Hematite Extract , Aluminum Silicate , Topaz , Zeolite , Tourmaline , Tetrasodium EDTA , Disodium EDTA , Methylchloroisothiazolinone Methylisothiazolinone Purpose : Effects for the damaged hair Removes dandruff , antifungal , itching , and waste matter on the scalp Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of the reach of babies and children .
Indication and usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
Massage the scalp while washing hair and rinse out fully .
Wash your hair for about 2 minutes .
Please shampoo everyday or every other day .
Dosage and administration : Take up about one quarter dollar coin of it and put it on palms , and rub it having enough foam and shampoo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
