Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrogen Peroxide ( stabilized ) 3 % Purpose First Aid Antiseptic / Oral Debriding Agent Uses • First aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • Aids in the removal of phlegm , mucous , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings • For external use only • Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer than 1 week • Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns • Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions First aid antiseptic : • Clean the affected area • Apply a small amount of product on the area 1 to 3 times daily • May be covered with a sterile bandage • If bandaged , let dry first Oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : adults and children 2 years of age and over : • Mix with an equal amount of water • Swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out • Use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor • Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • Children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other Information Keep tightly closed and at controlled room temperature .
Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive Ingredient purified water Distributed By McKesson Medical - Surgical Inc .
Richmond , VA 23228 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC 68599 - 2301 - 6 McKESSON Hydrogen Peroxide 3 % TOPICAL SOLUTION USP FIRST AID ANTISEPTIC ORAL DEBRIDING AGENT For treatment of minor cuts and abrasions .
For use as a gargle or rinse .
Tamper evident cap for your protection .
If ring - band is detached from cap or missing , do not use .
16 FL OZ ( 1 pt ) ( 473 mL ) MFR # 23 - D0012 Distributed By McKesson Medical - Surgical Inc .
Richmond , VA 23233 LU - 5750 - 1112 1 - 07 - D0012R10 Made in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Drug facts panel Drug Facts [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
