Description Carpuject ™ with Luer Lock Fliptop Plastic Vial Lifeshield ™ Fliptop Plastic Vial Preservative - Free Rx only This preparation is designed solely for parenteral use only after addition of drugs that require dilution or must be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle prior to injection .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic solution of sodium chloride and water for injection .
Each mL contains sodium chloride 9 mg .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is supplied only in single - dose containers to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection .
0 . 308 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP contains no preservatives .
The solution may contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
pH 5 . 3 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The glass container is a Type I borosilicate glass and meets the requirements of the powdered glass test according to the USP standards .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
Clinical Pharmacology Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ‾ ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ‾ ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP when used only as an isotonic vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in neonates and very small infants .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
Indications and Usage This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
Precautions Consult the manufacturer ' s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether sodium chloride injection containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium chloride injection containing additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Drug Interactions Some drugs for injection may be incompatible in a given vehicle , or when combined in the same vehicle or in a vehicle containing benzyl alcohol .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Use aseptic technique for single or multiple entry and withdrawal from all containers .
When diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use promptly .
Do not store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal intact .
Do not reuse single - dose containers , discard unused portion .
Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
Overdosage Use only as a diluent or solvent .
This parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of carbohydrate , sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in neonates or very small infants .
In the event these should occur , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Dosage and Administration The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection , is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
How Supplied 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is supplied in the following : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Instructions for Use of the Syringe Systems Instructions for using the Carpuject Syringe are available with the reusable Carpuject Holder , List 2049 - 02 .
LIFESHIELD ® is the trademark of ICU Medical , Inc . and is used under license .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1097 - 3 . 0 Revised : 08 / 2021 Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 4888 - 20 Tray of 25 Single - dose Plastic Fliptop Vials NDC 0404 - 9954 - 20 1 Single - dose Plastic Fliptop Vial in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 0409 - 4888 - 20 ) 0 . 9 % ( 20 mL ) NDC 0409 - 4888 - 50 Tray of 25 Single - dose Plastic Fliptop Vials NDC 0404 - 9954 - 50 1 Single - dose Plastic Fliptop Vial in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 0409 - 4888 - 50 ) 0 . 9 % ( 50 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
