DESCRIPTIONSumatriptan Succinate Tablets contain sumatriptan ( as the succinate ) , a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine1 receptor subtype agonist .
Sumatriptan succinate is chemically designated as 3 - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - N - methyl - indole - 5 - methanesulfonamide succinate ( 1 : 1 ) , and it has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C14H21N3O2S • C4H6O4 , representing a molecular weight of 413 . 5 .
Sumatriptan succinate is a white to off - white powder that is readily soluble in water and in saline .
Each Sumatriptan Succinate Tablet for oral administration contains 35 , 70 , or 140 mg of sumatriptan succinate equivalent to 25 , 50 , or 100 mg of sumatriptan , respectively .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , dibasic calcium phosphate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium bicarbonate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYMechanism of ActionSumatriptan is an agonist for a vascular 5 - hydroxytryptamine1 receptor subtype ( probably a member of the 5 - HT1D family ) having only a weak affinity for 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT5A , and 5 - HT7 receptors and no significant affinity ( as measured using standard radioligand binding assays ) or pharmacological activity at 5 - HT2 , 5 - HT3 , or 5 - HT4 receptor subtypes or at alpha1 - , alpha2 - , or beta - adrenergic ; dopamine1 ; dopamine2 ; muscarinic ; or benzodiazepine receptors .
The vascular 5 - HT1 receptor subtype that sumatriptan activates is present on cranial arteries in both dog and primate , on the human basilar artery , and in the vasculature of human dura mater and mediates vasoconstriction .
This action in humans correlates with the relief of migraine headache .
In addition to causing vasoconstriction , experimental data from animal studies show that sumatriptan also activates 5 - HT1 receptors on peripheral terminals of the trigeminal nerve innervating cranial blood vessels .
Such an action may also contribute to the antimigrainous effect of sumatriptan in humans .
In the anesthetized dog , sumatriptan selectively reduces the carotid arterial blood flow with little or no effect on arterial blood pressure or total peripheral resistance .
In the cat , sumatriptan selectively constricts the carotid arteriovenous anastomoses while having little effect on blood flow or resistance in cerebral or extracerebral tissues .
PharmacokineticsThe mean maximum concentration following oral dosing with 25 mg is 18 ng / mL ( range , 7 to 47 ng / mL ) and 51 ng / mL ( range , 28 to 100 ng / mL ) following oral dosing with 100 mg of sumatriptan .
This compares with a Cmax of 5 and 16 ng / mL following dosing with a 5 - and 20 - mg intranasal dose , respectively .
The mean Cmax following a 6 - mg subcutaneous injection is 71 ng / mL ( range , 49 to 110 ng / mL ) .
The bioavailability is approximately 15 % , primarily due to presystemic metabolism and partly due to incomplete absorption .
The Cmax is similar during a migraine attack and during a migraine - free period , but the Tmax is slightly later during the attack , approximately 2 . 5 hours compared with 2 . 0 hours .
When given as a single dose , sumatriptan displays dose proportionality in its extent of absorption ( area under the curve [ AUC ] ) over the dose range of 25 to 200 mg , but the Cmax after 100 mg is approximately 25 % less than expected ( based on the 25 - mg dose ) .
A food effect study involving administration of sumatriptan tablets 100 mg to healthy volunteers under fasting conditions and with a high - fat meal indicated that the Cmax and AUC were increased by 15 % and 12 % , respectively , when administered in the fed state .
Plasma protein binding is low ( 14 % to 21 % ) .
The effect of sumatriptan on the protein binding of other drugs has not been evaluated , but would be expected to be minor , given the low rate of protein binding .
The apparent volume of distribution is 2 . 4 L / kg .
The elimination half - life of sumatriptan is approximately 2 . 5 hours .
Radiolabeled 14 C - sumatriptan administered orally is largely renally excreted ( about 60 % ) with about 40 % found in the feces .
Most of the radiolabeled compound excreted in the urine is the major metabolite , indole acetic acid ( IAA ) , which is inactive , or the IAA glucuronide .
Only 3 % of the dose can be recovered as unchanged sumatriptan .
In vitro studies with human microsomes suggest that sumatriptan is metabolized by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) , predominantly the A isoenzyme , and inhibitors of that enzyme may alter sumatriptan pharmacokinetics to increase systemic exposure .
No significant effect was seen with an MAO - B inhibitor ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Special PopulationsRenal ImpairmentThe effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan has not been examined , but little clinical effect would be expected as sumatriptan is largely metabolized to an inactive substance .
Hepatic ImpairmentThe liver plays an important role in the presystemic clearance of orally administered sumatriptan .
Accordingly , the bioavailability of sumatriptan following oral administration may be markedly increased in patients with liver disease .
In 1 small study of hepatically impaired patients ( N = 8 ) matched for sex , age , and weight with healthy subjects , the hepatically impaired patients had an approximately 70 % increase in AUC and Cmax and a Tmax 40 minutes earlier compared with the healthy subjects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
AgeThe pharmacokinetics of oral sumatriptan in the elderly ( mean age , 72 years ; 2 males and 4 females ) and in patients with migraine ( mean age , 38 years ; 25 males and 155 females ) were similar to that in healthy male subjects ( mean age , 30 years ) ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) .
GenderIn a study comparing females to males , no pharmacokinetic differences were observed between genders for AUC , Cmax , Tmax , and half - life .
RaceThe systemic clearance and Cmax of sumatriptan were similar in black ( N = 34 ) and Caucasian ( N = 38 ) healthy male subjects .
Drug InteractionsMonoamine Oxidase InhibitorsTreatment with MAO - A inhibitors generally leads to an increase of sumatriptan plasma levels ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Due to gut and hepatic metabolic first - pass effects , the increase of systemic exposure after coadministration of an MAO - A inhibitor with oral sumatriptan is greater than after coadministration of the monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) with subcutaneous sumatriptan .
In a study of 14 healthy females , pretreatment with an MAO - A inhibitor decreased the clearance of subcutaneous sumatriptan .
Under the conditions of this experiment , the result was a 2 - fold increase in the area under the sumatriptan plasma concentration x time curve ( AUC ) , corresponding to a 40 % increase in elimination half - life .
This interaction was not evident with an MAO - B inhibitor .
A small study evaluating the effect of pretreatment with an MAO - A inhibitor on the bioavailability from a 25 - mg oral sumatriptan tablet resulted in an approximately 7 - fold increase in systemic exposure .
AlcoholAlcohol consumed 30 minutes prior to sumatriptan ingestion had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan .
CLINICAL STUDIESThe efficacy of sumatriptan tablets in the acute treatment of migraine headaches was demonstrated in 3 , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
Patients enrolled in these 3 studies were predominately female ( 87 % ) and Caucasian ( 97 % ) , with a mean age of 40 years ( range , 18 to 65 years ) .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Headache response , defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain , was assessed up to 4 hours after dosing .
Associated symptoms such as nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia were also assessed .
Maintenance of response was assessed for up to 24 hours postdose .
A second dose of sumatriptan tablets or other medication was allowed 4 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for recurrent headache .
Acetaminophen was offered to patients in Studies 2 and 3 beginning at 2 hours after initial treatment if the migraine pain had not improved or worsened .
Additional medications were allowed 4 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for recurrent headache or as rescue in all 3 studies .
The frequency and time to use of these additional treatments were also determined .
In all studies , doses of 25 , 50 , and 100 mg were compared with placebo in the treatment of migraine attacks .
In 1 study , doses of 25 , 50 , and 100 mg were also compared with each other .
In all 3 trials , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 and 4 hours after treatment was significantly greater among patients receiving sumatriptan tablets at all doses compared with those who received placebo .
In 1 of the 3 studies , there was a statistically significant greater percentage of patients with headache response at 2 and 4 hours in the 50 - or 100 - mg group when compared with the 25 - mg dose groups .
There were no statistically significant differences between the 50 - and 100 - mg dose groups in any study .
The results from the 3 controlled clinical trials are summarized in Table 1 .
Comparisons of drug performance based upon results obtained in different clinical trials are never reliable .
Because studies are conducted at different times , with different samples of patients , by different investigators , employing different criteria and / or different interpretations of the same criteria , under different conditions ( dose , dosing regimen , etc . ) , quantitative estimates of treatment response and the timing of response may be expected to vary considerably from study to study .
Table 1 .
Percentage of Patients With Headache Response ( No or Mild Pain ) 2 and 4 Hours Following Treatment Placebo 2 hr 4 hr Sumatriptan Tablets 25 mg 2 hr 4 hr Sumatriptan Tablets 50 mg 2 hr 4 hr Sumatriptan Tablets 100 mg 2 hr 4 hr Study 1 27 % 38 % 52 % * 67 % * 61 % * † 78 % * † 62 % * † 79 % * † ( N = 94 ) ( N = 298 ) ( N = 296 ) ( N = 296 ) Study 2 26 % 38 % 52 % * 70 % * 50 % * 68 % * 56 % * 71 % * ( N = 65 ) ( N = 66 ) ( N = 62 ) ( N = 66 ) Study 3 17 % 19 % 52 % * 65 % * 54 % * 72 % * 57 % * 78 % * ( N = 47 ) ( N = 48 ) ( N = 46 ) ( N = 46 ) * p less than 0 . 05 in comparison with placebo .
† p less than 0 . 05 in comparison with 25 mg .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response over the 4 hours following treatment is depicted in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 .
Estimated Probability of Achieving Initial Headache Response Within 240 Minutes * The figure shows the probability over time of obtaining headache response ( no or mild pain ) following treatment with sumatriptan .
The averages displayed are based on pooled data from the 3 clinical controlled trials providing evidence of efficacy .
Kaplan - Meier plot with patients not achieving response and / or taking rescue within 240 minutes censored to 240 minutes .
For patients with migraine - associated nausea , photophobia , and / or phonophobia at baseline , there was a lower incidence of these symptoms at 2 hours ( Study 1 ) and at 4 hours ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) following administration of sumatriptan tablets compared with placebo .
As early as 2 hours in Studies 2 and 3 or 4 hours in Study 1 , through 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain relief in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of patients taking a second dose or other medication for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 .
The Estimated Probability of Patients Taking a Second Dose or Other Medication for Migraine Over the 24 Hours Following the Initial Dose of Study Treatment * Kaplan - Meier plot based on data obtained in the 3 clinical controlled trials providing evidence of efficacy with patients not using additional treatments censored to 24 hours .
Plot also includes patients who had no response to the initial dose .
No remedication was allowed within 2 hours postdose .
There is evidence that doses above 50 mg do not provide a greater effect than 50 mg .
There was no evidence to suggest that treatment with sumatriptan was associated with an increase in the severity of recurrent headaches .
The efficacy of sumatriptan tablets was unaffected by presence of aura ; duration of headache prior to treatment ; gender , age , or weight of the patient ; relationship to menses ; or concomitant use of common migraine prophylactic drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers , tricyclic antidepressants ) .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on efficacy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGESumatriptan Succinate Tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets have not been established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
CONTRAINDICATIONSSumatriptan Succinate Tablets should not be given to patients with history , symptoms , or signs of ischemic cardiac , cerebrovascular , or peripheral vascular syndromes .
In addition , patients with other significant underlying cardiovascular diseases should not receive Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
Ischemic cardiac syndromes include , but are not limited to , angina pectoris of any type ( e . g . , stable angina of effort and vasospastic forms of angina such as the Prinzmetal variant ) , all forms of myocardial infarction , and silent myocardial ischemia .
Cerebrovascular syndromes include , but are not limited to , strokes of any type as well as transient ischemic attacks .
Peripheral vascular disease includes , but is not limited to , ischemic bowel disease ( see WARNINGS ) .
Because Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets may increase blood pressure , they should not be given to patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
Concurrent administration of MAO - A inhibitors or use within 2 weeks of discontinuation of MAO - A inhibitor therapy is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets should not be administered to patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets and any ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medication ( like dihydroergotamine or methysergide ) should not be used within 24 hours of each other , nor should Sumatriptan Succinate and another 5 - HT1 agonist .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to sumatriptan or any of their components .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
WARNINGSSumatriptan Succinate Tablets should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established .
Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac EventsSumatriptan should not be given to patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease ( CAD ) ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is strongly recommended that sumatriptan not be given to patients in whom unrecognized CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , female with surgical or physiological menopause , or male over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ’ s medical history or electrocardiographic investigations reveal findings indicative of , or consistent with , coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , sumatriptan should not be administered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD , who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets take place in the setting of a physician ’ s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received sumatriptan .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) during the interval immediately following the first dose in these patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of sumatriptan and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic interval cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use sumatriptan .
The systematic approach described above is intended to reduce the likelihood that patients with unrecognized cardiovascular disease will be inadvertently exposed to sumatriptan .
Drug - Associated Cardiac Events and FatalitiesSerious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm , and death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of sumatriptan injection or tablets .
Considering the extent of use of sumatriptan in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
The fact that sumatriptan can cause coronary vasospasm , that some of these events have occurred in patients with no prior cardiac disease history and with documented absence of CAD , and the close proximity of the events to sumatriptan use support the conclusion that some of these cases were caused by the drug .
In many cases , however , where there has been known underlying coronary artery disease , the relationship is uncertain .
Premarketing Experience With SumatriptanOf 6 , 348 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials of oral sumatriptan , 2 experienced clinical adverse events shortly after receiving oral sumatriptan that may have reflected coronary vasospasm .
Neither of these adverse events was associated with a serious clinical outcome .
Among the more than 1 , 900 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled clinical trials of subcutaneous sumatriptan , there were 8 patients who sustained clinical events during or shortly after receiving sumatriptan that may have reflected coronary artery vasospasm .
Six of these 8 patients had ECG changes consistent with transient ischemia , but without accompanying clinical symptoms or signs .
Of these 8 patients , 4 had either findings suggestive of CAD or risk factors predictive of CAD prior to study enrollment .
Among approximately 4 , 000 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials of sumatriptan nasal spray , 1 patient experienced an asymptomatic subendocardial infarction possibly subsequent to a coronary vasospastic event .
Postmarketing Experience With SumatriptanSerious cardiovascular events , some resulting in death , have been reported in association with the use of sumatriptan injection or tablets .
The uncontrolled nature of postmarketing surveillance , however , makes it impossible to determine definitively the proportion of the reported cases that were actually caused by sumatriptan or to reliably assess causation in individual cases .
On clinical grounds , the longer the latency between the administration of sumatriptan and the onset of the clinical event , the less likely the association is to be causative .
Accordingly , interest has focused on events beginning within 1 hour of the administration of sumatriptan .
Cardiac events that have been observed to have onset within 1 hour of sumatriptan administration include : coronary artery vasospasm , transient ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation , cardiac arrest , and death .
Some of these events occurred in patients who had no findings of CAD and appear to represent consequences of coronary artery vasospasm .
However , among domestic reports of serious cardiac events within 1 hour of sumatriptan administration , almost all of the patients had risk factors predictive of CAD and the presence of significant underlying CAD was established in most cases ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug - Associated Cerebrovascular Events and FatalitiesCerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with oral or subcutaneous sumatriptan , and some have resulted in fatalities .
The relationship of sumatriptan to these events is uncertain .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , sumatriptan having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine when they were not .
As with other acute migraine therapies , before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs , and in migraineurs who present with atypical symptoms , care should be taken to exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions .
It should also be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , cerebrovascular accident , transient ischemic attack ) .
Other Vasospasm - Related EventsSumatriptan may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm .
Both peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported .
Very rare reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of sumatriptan .
Visual disorders may also be part of a migraine attack .
Serotonin SyndromeThe development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with triptans , including treatment with sumatriptan , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI ( e . g . , fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , citalopram , escitalopram ) or SNRI ( e . g . , venlafaxine , duloxetine ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Increase in Blood PressureSignificant elevation in blood pressure , including hypertensive crisis , has been reported on rare occasions in patients with and without a history of hypertension .
Sumatriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Sumatriptan should be administered with caution to patients with controlled hypertension as transient increases in blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance have been observed in a small proportion of patients .
Concomitant Drug UseIn patients taking MAO - A inhibitors , sumatriptan plasma levels attained after treatment with recommended doses are 7 - fold higher following oral administration than those obtained under other conditions .
Accordingly , the coadministration of sumatriptan and an MAO - A inhibitor is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
HypersensitivityHypersensitivity ( anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid ) reactions have occurred on rare occasions in patients receiving sumatriptan .
Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal .
In general , hypersensitivity reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralChest discomfort and jaw or neck tightness have been reported following use of sumatriptan tablets and have also been reported infrequently following administration of sumatriptan nasal spray .
Chest , jaw , or neck tightness is relatively common after administration of sumatriptan injection .
Only rarely have these symptoms been associated with ischemic ECG changes .
However , because sumatriptan may cause coronary artery vasospasm , patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following sumatriptan should be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to Prinzmetal variant angina before receiving additional doses of sumatriptan , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms recur .
Similarly , patients who experience other symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud syndrome following sumatriptan should be evaluated for atherosclerosis or predisposition to vasospasm ( see WARNINGS ) .
Sumatriptan should also be administered with caution to patients with diseases that may alter the absorption , metabolism , or excretion of drugs , such as impaired hepatic or renal function .
There have been rare reports of seizure following administration of sumatriptan .
Sumatriptan should be used with caution in patients with a history of epilepsy or conditions associated with a lowered seizure threshold .
Care should be taken to exclude other potentially serious neurologic conditions before treating headache in patients not previously diagnosed with migraine headache or who experience a headache that is atypical for them .
There have been rare reports where patients received sumatriptan for severe headaches that were subsequently shown to have been secondary to an evolving neurologic lesion ( see WARNINGS ) .
For a given attack , if a patient does not respond to the first dose of sumatriptan , the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before administration of a second dose .
Overuse of acute migraine treatments has been associated with the exacerbation of headache ( medication overuse headache ) in susceptible patients .
Withdrawal of the treatment may be necessary .
Binding to Melanin - Containing TissuesIn rats treated with a single subcutaneous dose ( 0 . 5 mg / kg ) or oral dose ( 2 mg / kg ) of radiolabeled sumatriptan , the elimination half - life of radioactivity from the eye was 15 and 23 days , respectively , suggesting that sumatriptan and / or its metabolites bind to the melanin of the eye .
Because there could be an accumulation in melanin - rich tissues over time , this raises the possibility that sumatriptan could cause toxicity in these tissues after extended use .
However , no effects on the retina related to treatment with sumatriptan were noted in any of the oral or subcutaneous toxicity studies .
Although no systematic monitoring of ophthalmologic function was undertaken in clinical trials , and no specific recommendations for ophthalmologic monitoring are offered , prescribers should be aware of the possibility of long - term ophthalmologic effects .
Corneal OpacitiesSumatriptan causes corneal opacities and defects in the corneal epithelium in dogs ; this raises the possibility that these changes may occur in humans .
While patients were not systematically evaluated for these changes in clinical trials , and no specific recommendations for monitoring are being offered , prescribers should be aware of the possibility of these changes ( see ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONSSerious cardiac events , including some that have been fatal , have occurred following the use of sumatriptan injection or tablets .
These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD .
Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Significant hypertensive episodes , including hypertensive crises , have been reported on rare occasions in patients with or without a history of hypertension ( see WARNINGS ) .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical TrialsOther events that occurred in more than 1 % of patients receiving sumatriptan tablets and at least as often on placebo included nausea and / or vomiting , migraine , headache , hyposalivation , dizziness , and drowsiness / sleepiness .
Sumatriptan tablets are generally well tolerated .
Across all doses , most adverse reactions were mild and transient and did not lead to long - lasting effects .
The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender or age of the patients .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events .
Other Events Observed in Association With the Administration of Sumatriptan TabletsIn the paragraphs that follow , the frequencies of less commonly reported adverse clinical events are presented .
Because the reports include events observed in open and uncontrolled studies , the role of sumatriptan tablets in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Furthermore , variability associated with adverse event reporting , the terminology used to describe adverse events , etc . , limit the value of quantitative frequency estimates provided .
Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used sumatriptan tablets ( 25 , 50 , or 100 mg ) and reported an event divided by the total number of patients ( N = 6 , 348 ) exposed to sumatriptan tablets .
All reported events are included except those already listed in the previous table , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients , infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients , and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Atypical SensationsFrequent were burning sensation and numbness .
Infrequent was tight feeling in head .
Rare were dysesthesia .
CardiovascularFrequent were palpitations , syncope , decreased blood pressure , and increased blood pressure .
Infrequent were arrhythmia , changes in ECG , hypertension , hypotension , pallor , pulsating sensations , and tachycardia .
Rare were angina , atherosclerosis , bradycardia , cerebral ischemia , cerebrovascular lesion , heart block , peripheral cyanosis , thrombosis , transient myocardial ischemia , and vasodilation .
Ear , Nose , and ThroatFrequent were sinusitis , tinnitus ; allergic rhinitis ; upper respiratory inflammation ; ear , nose , and throat hemorrhage ; external otitis ; hearing loss ; nasal inflammation ; and sensitivity to noise .
Infrequent were hearing disturbances and otalgia .
Rare was feeling of fullness in the ear ( s ) .
Endocrine and MetabolicInfrequent was thirst .
Rare were elevated thyrotropin stimulating hormone ( TSH ) levels ; galactorrhea ; hyperglycemia ; hypoglycemia ; hypothyroidism ; polydipsia ; weight gain ; weight loss ; endocrine cysts , lumps , and masses ; and fluid disturbances .
EyeRare were disorders of sclera , mydriasis , blindness and low vision , visual disturbances , eye edema and swelling , eye irritation and itching , accommodation disorders , external ocular muscle disorders , eye hemorrhage , eye pain , and keratitis and conjunctivitis .
GastrointestinalFrequent were diarrhea and gastric symptoms .
Infrequent were constipation , dysphagia , and gastroesophageal reflux .
Rare were gastrointestinal bleeding , hematemesis , melena , peptic ulcer , gastrointestinal pain , dyspeptic symptoms , dental pain , feelings of gastrointestinal pressure , gastritis , gastroenteritis , hypersalivation , abdominal distention , oral itching and irritation , salivary gland swelling , and swallowing disorders .
Hematological DisordersRare was anemia .
MusculoskeletalFrequent was myalgia .
Infrequent was muscle cramps .
Rare were tetany ; muscle atrophy , weakness , and tiredness ; arthralgia and articular rheumatitis ; acquired musculoskeletal deformity ; muscle stiffness , tightness , and rigidity ; and musculoskeletal inflammation .
NeurologicalFrequent were phonophobia and photophobia .
Infrequent were confusion , depression , difficulty concentrating , disturbance of smell , dysarthria , euphoria , facial pain , heat sensitivity , incoordination , lacrimation , monoplegia , sleep disturbance , shivering , syncope , and tremor .
Rare were aggressiveness , apathy , bradylogia , cluster headache , convulsions , decreased appetite , drug abuse , dystonic reaction , facial paralysis , hallucinations , hunger , hyperesthesia , hysteria , increased alertness , memory disturbance , neuralgia , paralysis , personality change , phobia , radiculopathy , rigidity , suicide , twitching , agitation , anxiety , depressive disorders , detachment , motor dysfunction , neurotic disorders , psychomotor disorders , taste disturbances , and raised intracranial pressure .
RespiratoryFrequent was dyspnea .
Infrequent was asthma .
Rare were hiccoughs , breathing disorders , cough , and bronchitis .
SkinFrequent was sweating .
Infrequent were erythema , pruritus , rash , and skin tenderness .
Rare were dry / scaly skin , tightness of skin , wrinkling of skin , eczema , seborrheic dermatitis , and skin nodules .
BreastsInfrequent was tenderness .
Rare were nipple discharge ; breast swelling ; cysts , lumps , and masses of breasts ; and primary malignant breast neoplasm .
UrogenitalInfrequent were dysmenorrhea , increased urination , and intermenstrual bleeding .
Rare were abortion and hematuria , urinary frequency , bladder inflammation , micturition disorders , urethritis , urinary infections , menstruation symptoms , abnormal menstrual cycle , inflammation of fallopian tubes , and menstrual cycle symptoms .
MiscellaneousFrequent was hypersensitivity .
Infrequent were fever , fluid retention , and overdose .
Rare were edema , hematoma , lymphadenopathy , speech disturbance , voice disturbances , contusions .
Other Events Observed in the Clinical Development of SumatriptanThe following adverse events occurred in clinical trials with sumatriptan injection and nasal spray .
Because the reports include events observed in open and uncontrolled studies , the role of sumatriptan in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
All reported events are included except those already listed , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Atypical SensationsFeeling strange , prickling sensation , tingling , and hot sensation .
CardiovascularAbdominal aortic aneurysm , abnormal pulse , flushing , phlebitis , Raynaud syndrome , and various transient ECG changes ( nonspecific ST or T wave changes , prolongation of PR or QTc intervals , sinus arrhythmia , nonsustained ventricular premature beats , isolated junctional ectopic beats , atrial ectopic beats , delayed activation of the right ventricle ) .
Chest SymptomsChest discomfort .
Endocrine and MetabolicDehydration .
Ear , Nose , and ThroatDisorder / discomfort nasal cavity and sinuses , ear infection , Meniere disease , and throat discomfort .
EyeVision alterations .
GastrointestinalAbdominal discomfort , colitis , disturbance of liver function tests , flatulence / eructation , gallstones , intestinal obstruction , pancreatitis , and retching .
Injection Site ReactionMiscellaneousDifficulty in walking , hypersensitivity to various agents , jaw discomfort , miscellaneous laboratory abnormalities , “ serotonin agonist effect , ” swelling of the extremities , and swelling of the face .
Mouth and TeethDisorder of mouth and tongue ( e . g . , burning of tongue , numbness of tongue , dry mouth ) .
MusculoskeletalArthritis , backache , intervertebral disc disorder , neck pain / stiffness , need to flex calf muscles , and various joint disturbances ( pain , stiffness , swelling , ache ) .
NeurologicalBad / unusual taste , chills , diplegia , disturbance of emotions , sedation , globus hystericus , intoxication , myoclonia , neoplasm of pituitary , relaxation , sensation of lightness , simultaneous hot and cold sensations , stinging sensations , stress , tickling sensations , transient hemiplegia , and yawning .
RespiratoryInfluenza and diseases of the lower respiratory tract and lower respiratory tract infection .
SkinSkin eruption , herpes , and peeling of the skin .
UrogenitalDisorder of breasts , endometriosis , and renal calculus .
Postmarketing Experience ( Reports for Subcutaneous or Oral Sumatriptan ) The following section enumerates potentially important adverse events that have occurred in clinical practice and that have been reported spontaneously to various surveillance systems .
The events enumerated represent reports arising from both domestic and nondomestic use of oral or subcutaneous dosage forms of sumatriptan .
The events enumerated include all except those already listed in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section above or those too general to be informative .
Because the reports cite events reported spontaneously from worldwide postmarketing experience , frequency of events and the role of sumatriptan in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
It is assumed , however , that systemic reactions following sumatriptan use are likely to be similar regardless of route of administration .
BloodHemolytic anemia , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia .
CardiovascularAtrial fibrillation , cardiomyopathy , colonic ischemia ( see WARNINGS ) , Prinzmetal variant angina , pulmonary embolism , shock , thrombophlebitis .
Ear , Nose , and ThroatDeafness .
EyeIschemic optic neuropathy , retinal artery occlusion , retinal vein thrombosis , loss of vision .
GastrointestinalIschemic colitis with rectal bleeding ( see WARNINGS ) , xerostomia .
HepaticElevated liver function tests .
NeurologicalCentral nervous system vasculitis , cerebrovascular accident , dysphasia , serotonin syndrome , subarachnoid hemorrhage .
Non - Site SpecificAngioneurotic edema , cyanosis , death ( see WARNINGS ) , temporal arteritis .
PsychiatryPanic disorder .
RespiratoryBronchospasm in patients with and without a history of asthma .
SkinExacerbation of sunburn , hypersensitivity reactions ( allergic vasculitis , erythema , pruritus , rash , shortness of breath , urticaria ; in addition , severe anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions have been reported [ see WARNINGS ] ) , photosensitivity .
UrogenitalAcute renal failure .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCEOne clinical study with sumatriptan injection enrolling 12 patients with a history of substance abuse failed to induce subjective behavior and / or physiologic response ordinarily associated with drugs that have an established potential for abuse .
OVERDOSAGEPatients ( N = 670 ) have received single oral doses of 140 to 300 mg without significant adverse effects .
Volunteers ( N = 174 ) have received single oral doses of 140 to 400 mg without serious adverse events .
Overdose in animals has been fatal and has been heralded by convulsions , tremor , paralysis , inactivity , ptosis , erythema of the extremities , abnormal respiration , cyanosis , ataxia , mydriasis , salivation , and lacrimation .
The elimination half - life of sumatriptan is approximately 2 . 5 hours ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , and therefore monitoring of patients after overdose with Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets should continue for at least 12 hours or while symptoms or signs persist .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the serum concentrations of sumatriptan .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONIn controlled clinical trials , single doses of 25 , 50 , or 100 mg of sumatriptan tablets were effective for the acute treatment of migraine in adults .
There is evidence that doses of 50 and 100 mg may provide a greater effect than 25 mg ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
There is also evidence that doses of 100 mg do not provide a greater effect than 50 mg .
Individuals may vary in response to doses of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
The choice of dose should therefore be made on an individual basis , weighing the possible benefit of a higher dose with the potential for a greater risk of adverse events .
If the headache returns or the patient has a partial response to the initial dose , the dose may be repeated after 2 hours , not to exceed a total daily dose of 200 mg .
If a headache returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan succinate injection , additional single Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets ( up to 100 mg / day ) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses .
The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
Because of the potential of MAO - A inhibitors to cause unpredictable elevations in the bioavailability of oral sumatriptan , their combined use is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hepatic disease / functional impairment may also cause unpredictable elevations in the bioavailability of orally administered sumatriptan .
Consequently , if treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of liver disease , the maximum single dose should in general not exceed 50 mg ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY for the basis of this recommendation ) .
HOW SUPPLIEDSumatriptan Succinate Tablets , 25 , 50 , and 100 mg of sumatriptan ( base ) as the succinate .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets , 25 mg are white , triangular - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 25 ” on the other in blister packs of 9 tablets ( NDC 55111 - 738 - 09 ) .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets , 50 mg are white , triangular - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 50 ” on the other in blister packs of 9 tablets ( NDC 55111 - 736 - 09 ) .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets , 100 mg , are white , triangular - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with “ S ” on one side and “ 100 ” on the other in blister packs of 9 tablets ( NDC 55111 - 737 - 09 ) .
Store between 36 ° and 86 ° F ( 2 ° and 30 ° C ) .
Information for PatientsSee PATIENT INFORMATION at the end of this labeling for the text of the separate leaflet provided for patients .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of sumatriptan or other triptans , especially during combined use with SSRIs or SNRIs .
Laboratory TestsNo specific laboratory tests are recommended for monitoring patients prior to and / or after treatment with sumatriptan .
Drug InteractionsSelective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin SyndromeCases of life - threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of SSRIs or SNRIs and triptans ( see WARNINGS ) .
Ergot - Containing DrugsErgot - containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because there is a theoretical basis that these effects may be additive , use of ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine or methysergide ) and sumatriptan within 24 hours of each other should be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Monoamine Oxidase - A InhibitorsMAO - A inhibitors reduce sumatriptan clearance , significantly increasing systemic exposure .
Therefore , the use of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets in patients receiving MAO - A inhibitors is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsSumatriptan is not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityCarcinogenesisIn carcinogenicity studies , rats and mice were given sumatriptan by oral gavage ( rats , 104 weeks ) or drinking water ( mice , 78 weeks ) .
Average exposures achieved in mice receiving the highest dose ( target dose of 160 mg / kg / day ) were approximately 40 times the exposure attained in humans after the maximum recommended single oral dose of 100 mg .
The highest dose administered to rats ( 160 mg / kg / day , reduced from 360 mg / kg / day during week 21 ) was approximately 15 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
There was no evidence of an increase in tumors in either species related to sumatriptan administration .
MutagenesisSumatriptan was not mutagenic in the presence or absence of metabolic activation when tested in 2 gene mutation assays ( the Ames test and the in vitro mammalian Chinese hamster V79 / HGPRT assay ) .
In 2 cytogenetics assays ( the in vitro human lymphocyte assay and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay ) sumatriptan was not associated with clastogenic activity .
Impairment of FertilityIn a study in which male and female rats were dosed daily with oral sumatriptan prior to and throughout the mating period , there was a treatment - related decrease in fertility secondary to a decrease in mating in animals treated with 50 and 500 mg / kg / day .
The highest no - effect dose for this finding was 5 mg / kg / day , or approximately one half of the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
It is not clear whether the problem is associated with treatment of the males or females or both combined .
In a similar study by the subcutaneous route there was no evidence of impaired fertility at 60 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , which is equivalent to approximately 6 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
PregnancyPregnancy Category C .
In reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits , oral treatment with sumatriptan was associated with embryolethality , fetal abnormalities , and pup mortality .
When administered by the intravenous route to rabbits , sumatriptan has been shown to be embryolethal .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , sumatriptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In assessing this information , the following findings should be considered .
EmbryolethalityWhen given orally or intravenously to pregnant rabbits daily throughout the period of organogenesis , sumatriptan caused embryolethality at doses at or close to those producing maternal toxicity .
In the oral studies this dose was 100 mg / kg / day , and in the intravenous studies this dose was 2 . 0 mg / kg / day .
The mechanism of the embryolethality is not known .
The highest no - effect dose for embryolethality by the oral route was 50 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 9 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
By the intravenous route , the highest no - effect dose was 0 . 75 mg / kg / day , or approximately one tenth of the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
The intravenous administration of sumatriptan to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , did not cause embryolethality .
This dose is equivalent to the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
Additionally , in a study in rats given subcutaneous sumatriptan daily prior to and throughout pregnancy at 60 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , there was no evidence of increased embryo / fetal lethality .
This dose is equivalent to approximately 6 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
TeratogenicityOral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of blood vessel abnormalities ( cervicothoracic and umbilical ) at doses of approximately 250 mg / kg / day or higher .
The highest no - effect dose was approximately 60 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 6 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
Oral treatment of pregnant rabbits with sumatriptan during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of cervicothoracic vascular and skeletal abnormalities .
The highest no - effect dose for these effects was 15 mg / kg / day , or approximately 3 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
A study in which rats were dosed daily with oral sumatriptan prior to and throughout gestation demonstrated embryo / fetal toxicity ( decreased body weight , decreased ossification , increased incidence of rib variations ) and an increased incidence of a syndrome of malformations ( short tail / short body and vertebral disorganization ) at 500 mg / kg / day .
The highest no - effect dose was 50 mg / kg / day , or approximately 5 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
In a study in rats dosed daily with subcutaneous sumatriptan prior to and throughout pregnancy , at a dose of 60 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , there was no evidence of teratogenicity .
This dose is equivalent to approximately 6 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
Pup DeathsOral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan during the period of organogenesis resulted in a decrease in pup survival between birth and postnatal day 4 at doses of approximately 250 mg / kg / day or higher .
The highest no - effect dose for this effect was approximately 60 mg / kg / day , or 6 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
Oral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan from gestational day 17 through postnatal day 21 demonstrated a decrease in pup survival measured at postnatal days 2 , 4 , and 20 at the dose of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day .
The highest no - effect dose for this finding was 100 mg / kg / day , approximately 10 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
In a similar study in rats by the subcutaneous route there was no increase in pup death at 81 mg / kg / day , the highest dose tested , which is equivalent to 8 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m2 basis .
Nursing MothersSumatriptan is excreted in human breast milk following subcutaneous administration .
Infant exposure to sumatriptan can be minimized by avoiding breastfeeding for 12 hours after treatment with Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets in pediatric patients under 18 years of age have not been established ; therefore , Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are not recommended for use in patients under 18 years of age .
Two controlled clinical trials evaluating sumatriptan nasal spray ( 5 to 20 mg ) in pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years enrolled a total of 1 , 248 adolescent migraineurs who treated a single attack .
The studies did not establish the efficacy of sumatriptan nasal spray compared with placebo in the treatment of migraine in adolescents .
Adverse events observed in these clinical trials were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
Five controlled clinical trials ( 2 single attack studies , 3 multiple attack studies ) evaluating oral sumatriptan ( 25 to 100 mg ) in pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years enrolled a total of 701 adolescent migraineurs .
These studies did not establish the efficacy of oral sumatriptan compared to placebo in the treatment of migraine in adolescents .
Adverse events observed in these clinical trials were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
The frequency of all adverse events in these patients appeared to be both dose - and age - dependent , with younger patients reporting events more commonly than older adolescents .
Postmarketing experience documents that serious adverse events have occurred in the pediatric population after use of subcutaneous , oral , and / or intranasal sumatriptan .
These reports include events similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults , including stroke , visual loss , and death .
A myocardial infarction has been reported in a 14 - year - old male following the use of oral sumatriptan ; clinical signs occurred within 1 day of drug administration .
Since clinical data to determine the frequency of serious adverse events in pediatric patients who might receive injectable , oral , or intranasal sumatriptan are not presently available , the use of sumatriptan in patients aged younger than 18 years is not recommended .
Geriatric UseThe use of sumatriptan in elderly patients is not recommended because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased hepatic function , they are at higher risk for CAD , and blood pressure increases may be more pronounced in the elderly ( see WARNINGS ) .
PATIENT INFORMATIONThe following wording is contained in a separate leaflet provided for patients .
Information for the Patient Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets Read this leaflet carefully before you start to take Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
Keep the leaflet for reference because it gives you a summary of important information about Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
Read the leaflet that comes with each refill of your prescription because there may be new information .
This leaflet does not have all the information about Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
Ask your healthcare provider for more information or advice .
What are Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets ?
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are a kind of medicine called a triptan .
You should take it only if you have a prescription .
Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are used to relieve your migraine .
They are not used to prevent attacks or reduce the number of attacks you have .
Use Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets only to treat an actual migraine attack .
The decision to use Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets is one that you and your healthcare provider should make together , based on your personal needs and health .
Talk with your healthcare provider before taking Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets • Risk factors for heart disease to tell your healthcare provider : Tell your healthcare provider if you have risk factors for heart disease such as : • high blood pressure • high cholesterol • being overweight • diabetes • smoking • strong family history of heart disease • you are postmenopausal • you are a male over 40 years of age If you do have risk factors for heart disease , your healthcare provider should check you for heart disease to see if Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets are right for you .
Although most of the people who have taken sumatriptan have not had any serious side effects , some have had serious heart problems .
Deaths have been reported , but these were rare considering the extensive worldwide use of sumatriptan .
Usually , serious problems happened in people with known heart disease .
It was not clear whether sumatriptan had anything to do with these deaths .
• Important questions to ask yourself before you take Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets : If the answer to any of the following questions is YES or if you do not know the answer , then please talk with your healthcare provider before you take Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
• Are you pregnant ?
Do you think you might be pregnant ?
Are you trying to become pregnant ?
Are you not using adequate contraception ?
Are you breastfeeding ?
• Do you have any chest pain , heart disease , shortness of breath , or irregular heartbeats ?
Have you had a heart attack ?
• Do you have risk factors for heart disease ( see list above ) ?
• Have you had a stroke , a mini - stroke ( also called a transient ischemic attack or TIA ) , or Raynaud syndrome ?
• Do you have high blood pressure ?
• Have you ever had to stop taking this or any other medicine because of an allergy or other problems ?
• Are you taking any other migraine medicines , including other triptans ?
Are you taking any medicines containing ergotamine , dihydroergotamine , or methysergide ?
• Are you taking any medicine for depression or other health problems such as a monoamine oxidase inhibitor , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) , or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor ( SNRI ) ?
Common SSRIs are citalopram HBr ( CELEXA ® ) , escitalopram oxalate ( LEXAPRO ® ) , paroxetine ( PAXIL ® ) , fluoxetine ( PROZAC ® / SARAFEM ® ) , olanzapine / fluoxetine ( SYMBYAX ® ) , sertraline ( ZOLOFT ® ) , and fluvoxamine .
Common SNRIs are duloxetine ( CYMBALTA ® ) and venlafaxine ( EFFEXOR ® ) .
• Have you had , or do you have , any disease of the liver or kidney ?
• Have you had , or do you have , epilepsy or seizures ?
• Is this headache different from your usual migraine attacks ?
Remember , if you answered YES to any of the above questions , then talk with your healthcare provider about it .
Important points about Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets • The use of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets during pregnancy : Do not take Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets if you are pregnant , think you might be pregnant , are trying to become pregnant , or are not using adequate contraception unless you have talked with your healthcare provider about this .
• How to take Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets : For adults , the usual dose is a single tablet swallowed whole with water or other liquids .
Do not split tablets .
If your symptoms of migraine come back or if you have a partial response to the first dose , you can take a second tablet 2 hours after the first tablet , but not sooner .
For any attack where you have no response to the first tablet , do not take a second tablet without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Do not take more than a total of 200 mg of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets in any 24 - hour period .
The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
• What to do if you take an overdose : If you have taken more medicine than has been prescribed for you , contact either your healthcare provider , hospital emergency department , or nearest poison control center right away .
• How to store your medicine : Keep your medicine in a safe place where children cannot reach it .
It may be harmful to children .
Do not take tablets out of the packaging until you are ready to take them .
Do not store the tablets in any other container .
Store your medicine away from heat and light .
Do not store at temperatures above 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) or below 36 ° F ( 2 ° C ) .
The expiration date of your medicine is printed on the packaging .
If your medicine has expired , throw it away .
If your healthcare provider decides to stop your treatment , do not keep any leftover medicine unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
Some possible side effects of Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets • Some patients feel pain or tightness in the chest or throat when using Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
If this happens to you , tell your healthcare provider before taking any more Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
If the chest pain , tightness , or pressure is severe or does not go away , call your healthcare provider right away .
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you have sudden and / or severe abdominal pain after you take Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
• Some people may have a reaction called serotonin syndrome when they take certain kinds of medicines for depression called SSRIs or SNRIs while they are taking Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
Symptoms may include confusion , hallucinations , fast heartbeat , feeling faint , fever , sweating , muscle spasm , difficulty walking , and / or diarrhea .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms after taking Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
• Shortness of breath ; wheeziness ; heart throbbing ; swelling of eyelids , face , or lips ; or a skin rash , skin lumps , or hives happens rarely .
If it happens to you , then tell your healthcare provider right away .
Do not take any more Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Some people may feel tingling , heat , flushing ( redness of face lasting a short time ) , heaviness , or pressure after taking Sumatriptan Succinate Tablets .
A few people may feel drowsy , dizzy , tired , or sick .
If you have any of these symptoms , tell your healthcare provider at your next visit .
• If you feel unwell in any other way or have any symptoms that you do not understand , you should contact your healthcare provider right away .
November 2008 SMT - DR : 1 PIL The following are registered trademarks of their respective owners : CELEXA , LEXAPRO / Forest Laboratories , Inc . ; PAXIL / GlaxoSmithKline ; PROZAC , SYMBYAX , CYMBALTA / Eli Lilly and Company ; SARAFEM / Warner Chilcott ( US ) , Inc . ; ZOLOFT / Pfizer Inc . ; EFFEXOR / Wyeth Corporation .
Manufactured by Penn Labs ( a GlaxoSmithKline company ) for Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 November 2008 SMT - DR : 1 PI Sumatriptan Succinate Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
