DESCRIPTION White , oblong , film - coated tablet , engraved with " UT " on one side and " CL CR " on the other side .
INDICATIONS CLANZA CR is indicated for Rheumatoid arthritis , ankylosing spondylitis , osteoarthritis and periarthritis of scapulohumerous , lumbago , ischiadynia , pain caused by nonaticular rheutism .
Dosage and Administration Adults : The recommended dose is 200 mg daily , taken as one dose ( every 24 hours ) .
However , the dose and dose frequency of CLANZA CR can be modified under the supervison of physician or pharmacist .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with allergy to these drugs or other analogues ( diclofenac ) .
Patients with asthma .
Like NSAIDS , acetylsalicylic acid and other drugs which inhibit prostagladin - synthesis may precipitate attacks of asthma , acute rhinitis or urticaria .
Patients with active peptic ulcer .
CAUTIONS Patients with symptoms indicative of gastro - intestinal disorders , with a history of gastroulceration .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment or cardiac or renal impairment .
Patients under the medication of diuretics .
Patients in recovery after surgical treatment .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The majority of side effects observed have been reversible and of a minor nature and include gastro - intestinal disorders ( dyspepsia , abdominal pain , nausea ) , rash , ruber , urticaria , symptoms of enuresis , headache , dizziness , and drowsiness .
To report suspected adverse reactions , call 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Patients suffering from dizziness , vertigo , or other central nervous system disorders while taking NSAIDS should refrain from driving or handling dangerous machinery .
DRUG INTERACTIONS There has been no drug interactions reported , but close monitoring of patients on combination with lithium and digoxin , oral antidiabetic agents , anticoagulants , diuretics , and other analgesics .
USE IN PREGNANCY AND NURSING MOTHERS Since there is no information on the safe use of CLANZA CR during pregnancy and lactation , the use of CLANZA CR should therefore be avoided in pregnancy and lactation .
USE IN CHILDREN The dosage and indication is not established yet for children with less than 6 years old .
OVERDOSAGE There are no human data available on the consequences of CLANZA CR overdosage .
If overdosage is observed , therapeutic measures should be taken according to symptoms ; supportive and symptomatic treatment should be given for complications such as hypotension , gastro - intestinal irritation , respiratory depression , and convulsions .
STORAGE Preserve in tight containers .
Store at room temperature not exceeding 30 oC .
SHELF LIFE Three ( 3 ) years from manufacturing date .
Do not exceed the expiry date for use printed on the box .
PACKAGE 10 Blister Packs with 10 Tablets in each Blister Pack Enter section text here label test [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
