Active Ingredients ( In each tablet ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr ................... 30 mg ................... Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin .................................. 400 mg .................. Expectorant Pseudoephedrine HCl .................... 60 mg .................... Nasal Decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive • temporary relief of cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • helps to control reflex that causes coughing Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous , dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache Do not use • if you are now taking a prescription monamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains on MAOI , ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Keep out of reach of children . In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions : Do not exceed more than 4 doses in any 24 - hour period or as directed by a doctor .
adults and children 12 years of age and over take 1 tablet every 6 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1 / 2 tablet every 6 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Other Information Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 degrees C ( 68 - 77 degrees F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 degrees C ( 59 - 86 degrees F ) Tamper evident by imprinted heat seal under cap .
Do not use if there is evidence of tampering Inactive Ingredients : FD and C Blue No . 1 , FD and C Blue No . 2 , dicalcium phosphate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , purified water , sodium starch glycolate type B , titanium dioxide .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 595 - 5598 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
