Active ingredient Purpose Carbamide Peroxide 6 . 5 % ..........................
Earwax Removal Aid Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen and remove excessive ear wax .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen and remove excessive ear wax .
Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have - ear drainage or discharge - ear pain - irritation or rash in the ear - dizziness - an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear drum - recently had ear surgery Stop use and ask a doctor if - you need to use for more than four days - excessive wax remains after use of this product When using this product - avoid contact with the eyes Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Unscrew cap from bottle .
Remove foil safety seal from bottle .
Affix applicator cap to bottle .
Adults and children over 12 years of age : - tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear - tip of applicator should not enter ear canal - keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear - use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor - any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber ear syringe .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information - avoid exposing the bottle to excessive heat and direct sunlight - keep cap on bottle when not in use - Note : Drops foam on contact with ear wax due to release of oxygen .
There may be an associated " cracking " sound - Note : Oversize packaging for ease in reading label information .
Contains one bottle .
- Store between 20 degrees to 25 degrees C ( 68 degrees to 77 degrees F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium lauroyl sarcosinate , citric acid , flavor , sodium stannate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
