Active ingredient ( per each rounded teaspoon = 5 . 8 g ) psyllium husk 3 . 4 g Purpose Bulk - forming laxative Uses • effective in treating occasional constipation and restoring regularity Warnings Allergy alert : May cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to ingested or inhaled psyllium Choking : Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting , or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits persisting for 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
When using this product • do not exceed the maximum recommended daily dosage in a 24 - hour period • you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating as your body adjusts to increased fiber intake Stop use and ask a doctor if • constipation lasts more than 7 days • rectal bleeding occurs These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • take at the first sign of irregularity up to 3 times a day • put one dose into an empty glass • fill glass with 8 oz of water or favorite beverage • stir briskly and drink promptly • if mixture thickens add more water and stir • take this product ( child or adult dose ) with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of water or other fluid .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
See choking warning .
• if you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth , take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine .
New Users : Start with 1 dose per day ; gradually increase to 3 doses per day as necessary adults and children 12 years and over 1 rounded teaspoon 6 to under 12 years 1 / 2 teaspoon under 6 years ask a doctor Other information • each teaspoon contains : potassium 30 mg and sodium 5 mg • Phenylketonurics : contains phenylalanine 25 mg per teaspoon • store at ( 20 o - 25 oC ) 68 o - 77 oF Inactive ingredients aspartame , citric acid , FD and C yellow 6 , maltodextrin , natural and artificial orange flavor , silicon dioxide .
DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Fiber Supplement Information Uses Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol that include 7 grams of soluble fiber per day from psyllium seed husk , may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering cholesterol levels .
One ADULT serving provides 2 . 4 grams of soluble fiber .
Consult a doctor if you are considering use of the products as part of a cholesterol - lowering program .
Warnings Read entire label , including warnings in Drug Facts Directions Adults 12 years and older : 1 rounded TEASPOON ( tsp ) in 8 oz of liquid 3 times daily .
Children under 12 years : Consult a doctor .
NOTICE : Mix this product with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of liquid .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
Do not take if you havbe difficulty swallowing .
See choking warning .
PDP Sunmark Compare to the active ingredient in Metamucil ® fiber Smooth Texture Sugar Free Bulk - forming laxative and Dietary fiber supplement 100 % Natural Psyllium Seed Husk Fiber Orange Flavor Naturally and Artificially Flavored net wt 10 oz ( 283 g ) 48 teaspoon doses [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
