1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is an alpha adrenergic agonist indicated for lowering intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is indicated for lowering intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
The IOP lowering efficacy of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution diminishes over time in some patients .
This loss of effect appears with a variable time of onset in each patient and should be closely monitored .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One drop in the affected eye ( s ) , three times daily , approximately 8 hours apart .
The recommended dose is one drop of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily , approximately 8 hours apart .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic product is to be used , the different products should be instilled at least 5 minutes apart .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Solution containing 2 mg / mL brimonidine tartrate .
Solution containing 2 mg / mL brimonidine tartrate .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Neonates and infants ( under the age of 2 years ) .
( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Neonates and Infants ( under the age of 2 years ) Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in neonates and infants ( under the age of 2 years ) [ seeUseinSpecificPopulations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who have exhibited a hypersensitivity reaction to any component of this medication in the past [ seeAdverseReactions ( 6 . 1 ) and ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Potentiation of vascular insufficiency .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Potentiation of Vascular Insufficiency Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution may potentiate syndromes associated with vascular insufficiency .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution should be used with caution in patients with depression , cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , orthostatic hypotension , or thromboangiitis obliterans .
5 . 2 Severe Cardiovascular Disease Although brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution had minimal effect on the blood pressure of patients in clinical studies , caution should be exercised in treating patients with severe cardiovascular disease .
5 . 3 Contamination of Topical Ophthalmic Products After Use There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 4 Use with Contact Lenses The preservative in Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients wearing soft contact lenses should be instructed to wait at least 15 minutes after instilling Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution to insert soft contact lenses .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions occurring in approximately 10 to 30 % of patients receiving brimonidine ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % included oral dryness , ocular hyperemia , burning and stinging , headache , blurring , foreign body sensation , fatigue / drowsiness , conjunctival follicles , ocular allergic reactions , and ocular pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contactSomersetTherapeutics , LLCat 1 - 800 - 417 - 9175 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Potentiation of Vascular Insufficiency [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Severe Cardiovascular Disease [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Contamination of Topical Ophthalmic Products after Use [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Neonates and Infants ( under the age of 2 years ) [ seeContraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
• Adverse reactions occurring in approximately 10 - 30 % of the subjects ( in descending order ) : oral dryness , ocular hyperemia , burning and stinging , headache , blurring , foreign body sensation , fatigue / drowsiness , conjunctival follicles , ocular allergic reactions , and ocular pruritus .
• Adverse reactions occurring in approximately 3 - 9 % of the subjects ( in descending order ) : corneal staining / erosion , photophobia , eyelid erythema , ocular ache / pain , ocular dryness , tearing , upper respiratory symptoms , eyelid edema , conjunctival edema , dizziness , blepharitis , ocular irritation , gastrointestinal symptoms , asthenia , conjunctival blanching , abnormal vision and muscular pain .
• Adverse reactions reported < 3 % of the patients : lid crusting , conjunctival hemorrhage , abnormal taste , insomnia , conjunctival discharge , depression , hypertension , anxiety , palpitations / arrhythmias , nasal dryness and syncope .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The reactions , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions , or a combination of these factors , include : • Bradycardia ; conjunctivitis ; hypersensitivity ; hypotension ; iritis ; keratoconjunctivitis sicca ; lacrimation increased ; miosis ; nausea ; skin reactions ( including erythema , eyelid pruritus , rash , and vasodilation ) ; and tachycardia .
• Apnea , bradycardia , coma , hypotension , hypothermia , hypotonia , lethargy , pallor , respiratory depression , and somnolence in infants receiving brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensives / cardiac glycosides may lower blood pressure .
( 7 . 1 ) • Use with CNS depressants may result in an additive or potentiating effect .
( 7 . 2 ) • Tricyclic antidepressants may potentially blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine .
( 7 . 3 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may result in increased hypotension .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Antihypertensives / Cardiac Glycosides Because Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution may reduce blood pressure , caution in using drugs such as antihypertensives and / or cardiac glycosides with Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution is advised .
7 . 2 CNS Depressants Although specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution , the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants ( alcohol , barbiturates , opiates , sedatives , or anesthetics ) should be considered .
7 . 3 Tricyclic Antidepressants Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine .
It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution in humans can lead to resulting interference with the IOP lowering effect .
Caution is advised in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine and potentially result in an increased systemic side - effect such as hypotension .
Caution is advised in patients taking MAO inhibitors which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Use with caution in children ≥ 2 years of age .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Teratogenicity studies have been performed in animals .
Brimonidine tartrate was not teratogenic when given orally during gestation days 6 through 15 in rats and days 6 through 18 in rabbits .
The highest doses of brimonidine tartrate in rats ( 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( 5 mg / kg / day ) achieved AUC exposure values 375 - fold higher or 19 - fold higher , respectively , than similar values estimated in humans treated with Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % , one drop in one eye , twice daily .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women ; however , in animal studies , brimonidine crossed the placenta and entered into the fetal circulation to a limited extent .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether brimonidine tartrate is excreted in human milk , although in animal studies , brimonidine tartrate has been shown to be excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in children under the age of 2 years [ seeContraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
During postmarketing surveillance , apnea , bradycardia , coma , hypotension , hypothermia , hypotonia , lethargy , pallor , respiratory depression , and somnolence have been reported in infants receiving brimonidine .
The safety and effectiveness of brimonidine tartrate have not been studied in children below the age of 2 years .
In a well - controlled clinical study conducted in pediatric glaucoma patients ( ages 2 to 7 years ) the most commonly observed adverse reactions with Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % dosed three times daily were somnolence ( 50 - 83 % in patients ages 2 to 6 years ) and decreased alertness .
In pediatric patients 7 years of age ( greater than 20 kg ) , somnolence appears to occur less frequently ( 25 % ) .
Approximately 16 % of patients on Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % discontinued from the study due to somnolence .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
8 . 6 Special Populations Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
The effect of dialysis on brimonidine pharmacokinetics in patients with renal failure is not known .
10 OVERDOSAGE Very limited information exists on accidental ingestion of brimonidine in adults ; the only adverse reaction reported to date has been hypotension .
Symptoms of brimonidine overdose have been reported in neonates , infants , and children receiving brimonidine tartrate as part of medical treatment of congenital glaucoma or by accidental oral ingestion [ seeUseInSpecificPopulations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
11 DESCRIPTION Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % , sterile , is a relatively selective alpha - 2 adrenergic receptor agonist ( topical intraocular pressure lowering agent ) .
The structural formula of brimonidine tartrate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 - Bromo - 6 - ( 2 - imidazolidinylideneamino ) quinoxaline L - tartrate ; MW = 442 . 24 In solution , Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % has a clear , greenish - yellow color .
It has an osmolality of 280 - 330 mOsml / kg and a pH of 5 . 6 - 6 . 6 .
Each mL of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution contains the active ingredient brimonidine tartrate 0 . 2 % ( 2 mg / mL ) with the inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride 0 . 005 % ( 0 . 05 mg / mL ) as a preservative ; citric acid ; polyvinyl alcohol ; sodium chloride ; sodium citrate ; and water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is a relatively selective alpha - 2 adrenergic receptor agonist with a peak ocular hypotensive effect occurring at two hours post - dosing .
Fluorophotometric studies in animals and humans suggest that brimonidine tartrate has a dual mechanism of action by reducing aqueous humor production and increasing uveoscleral outflow .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After ocular administration of a 0 . 2 % solution , plasma concentrations peaked within 1 to 4 hours and declined with a systemic half - life of approximately 3 hours .
Distribution The protein binding of brimonidine has not been studied .
Metabolism In humans , brimonidine is extensively metabolized by the liver .
Excretion Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of brimonidine and its metabolites .
Approximately 87 % of an orally - administered radioactive dose of brimonidine was eliminated within 120 hours , with 74 % found in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No compound - related carcinogenic effects were observed in either mice or rats following a 21 - month and 24 - month study , respectively .
In these studies , dietary administration of brimonidine tartrate at doses up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day in mice and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day in rats achieved ~ 77 and 118 times , respectively , the plasma Cmax drug concentration estimated in humans treated with one drop Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % into both eyes 2 times per day .
Brimonidine tartrate was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a series of invitro and invivo studies including the Ames bacterial reversion test , chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells , and three invivo studies in CD - 1 mice : a host - mediated assay , cytogenetic study , and dominant lethal assay .
A reproduction and fertility study in rats with brimonidine tartrate demonstrated no adverse effect on male or female fertility at oral doses up to 1 mg / kg , estimated as approximately 200 times the systemic exposure ( AUC ) following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
Brimonidine tartrate has the action of lowering intraocular pressure with minimal effect on cardiovascular and pulmonary parameters .
In comparative clinical studies with timolol 0 . 5 % , lasting up to one year , the IOP lowering effect of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution was approximately 4 - 6 mm Hg compared with approximately 6 mm Hg for timolol .
In these studies , both patient groups were dosed BID ; however , due to the duration of action of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution , it is recommended that Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution be dosed TID .
Eight percent of subjects were discontinued from studies due to inadequately controlled intraocular pressure , which in 30 % of these patients occurred during the first month of therapy .
Approximately 20 % were discontinued due to adverse experiences .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % is supplied sterile , in white LDPE Bottle , White LDPE Nozzle with a Purple HDPE Cap in the following sizes : 5 mL bottle in one carton – NDC 70069 - 231 - 01 10 mL bottle in one carton – NDC 70069 - 232 - 01 15 mL bottle in one carton – NDC 70069 - 233 - 01 Storage : Store at 15 o - 25 oC ( 59 o - 77 oF ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION HandlingtheContainer Instruct patients that ocular solutions , if handled improperly or if the tip of the dispensing container contacts the eye or surrounding structures , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Always replace the cap after using .
If solution changes color or becomes cloudy , do not use .
Do not use the product after the expiration date marked on the bottle .
WhentoSeekPhysicianAdvice Advise patients that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
UsewithContactLenses Advise patients that contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
UsewithOtherOphthalmicDrugs Advise patients that if more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
PotentialforDecreasedMentalAlertness As with other similar medications , Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution may cause fatigue and / or drowsiness in some patients .
Caution patients who engage in hazardous activities of the potential for a decrease in mental alertness .
Manufactured for : Somerset Therapeutics , LLC Hollywood , FL 33024 Customer Care # 1 - 800 - 417 - 9175 Made in India Code No . : KR / DRUGS / KTK / 28 / 289 / 97 ST - BRM / P / 02 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 5 mL Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 mL Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mL Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mL Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 mL Container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 mL Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
