Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 50 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Tribehenin , Alcohol denat . , Dimethicone , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Cetearyl glucoside , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Butylene glycol , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Methylparaben , Dimethiconol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Sodium hyaluronate , Tocopheryl acetate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , hydolyzed rice protein , Tetrasodium EDTA , Sorbitan laurate , T - butyl alcohol , Carbomer , Panax gingseng root extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Polyosorbate 20 , Potassium hydroxide , Hydroxyethylcelulose , Acetyl dipeptide - 1 cetyl ester , Morus alba leaf extract , Silica , Sodium benzoate , Tocopherol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 .
Serum Made in Germany Day and Night Creams Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 www . boots . com / no7 Description Visibly Younger Discover No7 ' s acclaimed Protect and Perfect Intense ADVANCED skincare , enhanced with our even more powerful Day and Night Creams to give younger looking skin in 2 weeks .
Powerd by Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM , a next generation peptide that works to restore more youthful skin .
With our unique Double Defence technology - a powerful blend of antioxidants - it helps to protect skin from future signs of ageing , keeping it looking younger for longer .
After 2 weeks skin looks younger , by 4 weeks deep lines and wrinkles are visibly reduced .
Formulated by No7 , leaders in anti - ageing skincare science .
SERUM Supercharge your skincare routine with this clinically proven serum .
When asked , 80 % of women said this serum provided the best anti - ageing results they had ever seen .
Independently tested and proven to work , with results that keep getting better with continued use .
No7 Serums are designed to be used underneath your moisturiser to deliver key actives into the skin .
DAY CREAM Formulated with the protective power of Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 to give your skin protection from the No1 cause of visible skin ageing .
During the day , double Defence technology protects skin and boosts natural defences against environmental stress .
Supercharged by Matrixyl 3000 plus TM , it is the perfect partner to our Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum .
They have been formulated to be used together to deliver even better anti - ageing results .
NIGHT CREAM Created to work in harmony with your skin ' s natural night time repair processes to help your skin recover from the day .
Double Defence technology gives No7 ' s most advanced night - time protction against the damaging effects of free radicals generated from the sun and environmental stress during the day .
Supercharged by Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM , it is the perfect night - time partner to our Protect and Perfect Intense ADVANCED Serum .
They have been formulated to be used together to deliver even better anti - ageing results .
For Best Results : After cleansing , smooth No7 Protect and Perfect Intense ADVANCED Serum onto your face and neck .
In the morning , follow with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense ADVANCED Day Cream .
At night , follow with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense ADVANCED Night Cream .
carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
