DESCRIPTION Renacidin ® ( Citric Acid , Glucono delta - lactone , and Magnesium Carbonate ) is a sterile , non - pyrogenic irrigation solution for use within the lower urinary tract in the dissolution of bladder calculi of the struvite or apatite variety , and prevention of encrustations of urethral catheters and cystostomy tubes .
Each 30 mL of Renacidin contains : Active ingredients : Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) , USP 1980 . 6 mg C6H8O7 Glucono delta - lactone , USP 59 . 4 mg C6H10O6 Magnesium Carbonate , USP 980 . 4 mg ( MgCO3 ) 4 · Mg ( OH ) 2 · 5H2O Citric Acid [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glucono delta - lactone [ MULTIMEDIA ] Magnesium Carbonate ( MgCO3 ) 4 · Mg ( OH ) 2 · 5H2O Inert ingredients : Benzoic Acid , USP 6 . 9 mg Solution pH : 3 . 85 ( 3 . 5 - 4 . 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Renacidin ' s action on susceptible apatite calculi results from an exchange of magnesium from the irrigating solution for calcium contained in the stone matrix .
The magnesium salts thereby formed are soluble in the gluconocitrate irrigating solution resulting in the dissolution of the calculus .
Struvite calculi are composed mainly of magnesium ammonium phosphates which are solubilized by Renacidin due to its acidic pH . Renacidin is not effective for dissolution of calcium oxalate , uric acid or cysteine stones .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Renacidin is indicated for dissolution of bladder calculi of the struvite or apatite variety by local intermittent irrigation through a urethral catheter or cystostomy tube as an alternative or adjunct to surgical procedures .
Renacidin is also indicated for use as an intermittent irrigating solution to prevent encrustations of indwelling urethral catheters and cystostomy tubes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Renacidin is contraindicated in the presence of demonstrable urinary tract extravasation .
WARNINGS Renacidin use should be stopped immediately if the patient develops fever , urinary tract infection , signs and symptoms consistent with urinary tract infection , or persistent flank pain .
Irrigation should be stopped if elevated serum creatinine develops .
The contents of individual Renacidin containers should not be combined for use as continuous irrigation of the urinary tract because of complications that may arise from inadequate aseptic technique .
Terminal sterilization processes that are not adequate may result in sepsis and / or injury to product handlers ( e . g . , irritation to exposed , unprotected areas of the skin ) .
Serious adverse reactions , including sepsis and hypermagnesemia , have been reported to occur when Renacidin was used for continuous irrigation of the upper urinary tract .
Renacidin is not indicated for continuous irrigation of the upper urinary tract .
PRECAUTIONS Maintain Patency of the Urethral Catheter or Cystostomy Tube Care must be taken during therapy with Renacidin to maintain the patency of the urethral catheter or cystostomy tube .
Calculus fragments and debris may obstruct the catheter .
Catheter outflow blockage may be prevented by flushing the catheter with saline and repositioning of the catheter .
Frequent monitoring of the system should be performed by a nurse , an aide or any person with sufficient skills to be able to detect any problems with the patency of the catheter .
At the first sign of obstruction , Renacidin should be discontinued .
Caution in Patients with Vesicoureteral Reflux Patients with an indwelling urethral catheter or a cystostomy tube may have undiagnosed vesicoureteral reflux .
Appropriate evaluation prior to initiation of Renacidin is recommended .
If reflux is demonstrated , the potential benefits of therapy should outweigh the risks , and all recommended safety monitoring precautions should be strictly implemented .
Safety Monitoring While on Therapy with Renacidin Patients should be monitored throughout the course of therapy with Renacidin .
Serum creatinine , phosphate and magnesium should be obtained every several days .
Urine specimens should be collected for culture and antibacterial sensitivity approximately every three days and at the first sign of fever .
Therapy with Renacidin should be stopped if any culture exhibits growth and appropriate antibacterial therapy should be initiated .
Therapy with Renacidin may be started again after a course of antibacterial therapy upon demonstration of sterile urine .
Struvite calculi frequently contain bacteria within the stone and antibacterial therapy should therefore be continued throughout the course of dissolution therapy .
An elevated serum creatinine concentration is also an indication to stop therapy with Renacidin .
Concomitant Use with Medications Containing Magnesium Concomitant use of Renacidin and medications containing magnesium may contribute to hypermagnesemia in susceptible individuals , such as patients with vesicoureteral reflux .
Renacidin Irrigation should be used with caution in patients taking concomitant medications containing magnesium .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies to evaluate carcinogenic potential of Renacidin in animals have not been conducted .
Mutagenicity studies have not been conducted .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Renacidin .
It is also not known whether Renacidin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Renacidin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Magnesium is known to be excreted into human milk .
It is not known whether Renacidin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Renacidin is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions with use of Renacidin for dissolution of bladder calculi or prevention of encrustations of indwelling urethral catheters are “ bladder irritability ” and chemical cystitis , both reported to occur in approximately 3 % of patients .
A transient burning sensation in the bladder following Renacidin has been reported to occur in less than 1 % of patients receiving Renacidin .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Renacidin for local irrigation within the lower urinary tract is available in single - use 30 mL containers .
Prepare and Administer the Dose : Step 1 : Inspect Renacidin visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
If particulate matter or discoloration are observed , do not administer .
Step 2 : Remove the plastic tab connected to the conical tip of the Renacidin container by twisting the plastic tab .
See Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Connect the conical tip of the Renacidin container to the end of the urethral catheter or cystostomy tube .
See Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Squeeze the Renacidin container to expel the entire contents into the urethral catheter or cystostomy tube .
See Figure 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For Dissolution of Bladder Calculi : Instill 30 mL ( one container ) of Renacidin into the bladder via a urethral catheter or cystostomy tube .
Clamp the urethral catheter or cystostomy tube for 30 to 60 minutes .
Release the clamp and drain the bladder .
Repeat the instillation procedure 4 to 6 times a day .
Monitor for dissolution of calculi .
For Prevention of Encrustations in Urethral Catheters and Cystostomy Tubes : Instill 30 mL ( one container ) of Renacidin into the urethral catheter or cystostomy tube .
Clamp the urethral catheter or cystostomy tube for 10 minutes .
Remove the clamp and drain the bladder .
Repeat the instillation procedure 3 times a day .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Renacidin is available as a sterile , non - pyrogenic irrigation solution in 30 mL single - use , low density , polyethylene containers , supplied in boxes of 30 containers each .
Exposure of Renacidin to heat or cold should be minimized .
Renacidin should be stored at room temperature , 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat or cold ( keep from freezing ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures of up to 40 ° C or temperatures down to 5 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
NDC : 0327 - 0012 - 30 PRODUCT CODE : RN030 Revised : December , 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for GUARDIAN LABORATORIES A DIVISION OF UNITED - GUARDIAN , INC .
Hauppauge , N . Y . 11788 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0327 - 0012 - 30 Rx Only RENACIDIN ® ( Citric acid , Glucono delta - lactone , and Magnesium Carbonate ) Irrigation Solution For Urological Irrigation Only Each 30 ml .
contains : Active ingredients : Citric acid , anhydrous , USP 1 , 980 . 6 mg . ; Glucono delta - lactone , USP 59 . 4 mg . ; Magnesium carbonate , USP , 980 . 4 mg .
Inert ingredient : Benzoic acid , USP , 6 . 9 mg .
Solution pH : 3 . 85 ( 3 . 5 - 4 . 2 ) Read accompanying package insert for complete instructions on use .
Store at room temperature ( 59 - 86 ° F ) ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
Use only if container seal is intact , there is no leakage evident and solution is clear .
Box of thirty units – 30 ml .
each Single Dose – Sterile , Non - pyrogenic Product code : RN030 Made in U . S . A . RENACIDIN ® ( Citric acid , Glucono delta - lactone , and Magnesium Carbonate ) Irrigation Solution For Urological Irrigation Only Manufactured for GUARDIAN LABORATORIES a division of United - Guardian , Inc . , Hauppauge , NY 11788 Rev . 3 - Dec 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
