Active ingredients Miconazole nitrate 1200 mg ( in vaginal insert ) Miconazole nitrate 2 % ( external cream ) Purpose Vaginal antifungal Uses • • treats vaginal yeast infections • • relieves external itching and irritation due to a vaginal yeast infection Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• • vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine warfarin , because bleeding or bruising may occur .
When using this product • • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• • do not have vaginal intercourse • • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • • symptoms last more than 7 days • • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • before using this product read the enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information • • adults and children 12 years of age and over : • • vaginal insert : with the applicator place the vaginal insert into the vagina .
Throw applicator away after use .
• • external cream : squeeze a small amount of cream onto your fingertip .
Apply the cream onto the itchy , irritated skin outside the vagina .
Use 2 times daily for up to 7 days , as needed .
• • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • • do not use if printed sealed pouch is torn , open or incompletely sealed • • do not use if seal over tube opening has been punctured • • do not purchase if carton is open • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • this is a 1 - dose treatment .
Most women do not get complete relief of their symptoms in just 1 day .
Most women get some improvement in 1 day and complete relief by 7 days .
Inactive ingredients • • vaginal insert : fractionated coconut oil , gelatin , glycerin , lecithin , light mineral oil , purified water , titanium dioxide , white petrolatum • • external cream : benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , glyceryl stearate , mineral oil , peglicol 5 oleate , pegoxol 7 stearate , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer information CONSUMER INFORMATION LEAFLET Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Insert ( 1200 mg ) and Miconazole Nitrate Cream ( 2 % ) VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL COMBINATION PACK Cures Most Vaginal Yeast Infections and Relieves Associated External Itching and Irritation Why should I use this product ?
This product contains a 1 - dose vaginal insert that cures most vaginal yeast infections , plus an external cream that can be used for relief of itching and irritation on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) due to a yeast infection .
Do not use this product if this is the first time you have vaginal discharge , itching , burning and discomfort .
See your doctor or health professional first to find out the cause of your symptoms . If a doctor has told you in the past that you had a vaginal yeast infection and you have the same symptoms now ( such as vaginal discharge , itching or burning ) , then this product may work for you .
What is a vaginal yeast infection ?
A vaginal yeast infection is a common condition caused by an overgrowth of yeast ( Candida ) that may normally live in the vagina .
Your doctor may call this infection “ monilia ” or “ candidiasis . ”
Some women may have a yeast infection on the skin outside of the vagina ( vulva ) at the same time that they have a vaginal infection .
Who can get a vaginal yeast infection ?
You can get a vaginal yeast infection at any age .
It is most common during the childbearing years .
Women who are pregnant or diabetic , taking antibiotics , birth control pills or steroids , or who have a weakened immune system are more likely to get repeated yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
Some medical conditions can weaken the body ' s normal ability to fight infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
The HIV virus causes the body to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
If you may have been exposed to HIV and get repeated vaginal yeast infections , you should see your doctor right away .
For more information on HIV infection , please contact your doctor or the CDC National AIDS HOTLINE .
The CDC phone numbers are : 1 - 800 - 232 - 4636 ( English / Spanish ) , or 1 - 888 - 232 - 6348 ( hearing impaired , TTY ) .
How can I tell if I have a vaginal yeast infection ?
When you have a vaginal yeast infection , you may have one or more of the following symptoms : • • vaginal itching • • vaginal discharge that may be thick , white , and lumpy like cottage cheese • • vaginal soreness , irritation , or burning • • rash or redness on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) • • burning on urination • • painful vaginal intercourse ( sex ) Note : Vaginal yeast infections do NOT cause fever , chills , lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , foul - smelling vaginal discharge , or a missed period .
These may be signs of a sexually transmitted disease ( STD ) or a tubal pregnancy .
If you have these symptoms , call your doctor right away .
What are other causes of a vaginal discharge ?
It is normal to have a small amount of vaginal discharge at certain times of the month .
This normal discharge may be clear or slightly white and does not cause itching , pain or a foul odor .
The most common cause of an abnormal vaginal discharge is an infection .
These infections include bacterial vaginosis ( BV ) , trichomoniasis ( Trich ) , gonorrhea ( GC ) and / or chlamydia .
All of these may be transmitted sexually and are called sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
If you have more questions about sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) call the CDC STD Hotline at 1 - 800 - 227 - 8922 .
Although many of the infections mentioned above can cause symptoms similar to a vaginal yeast infection ( vaginal discharge , irritation and itching ) , their diagnosis must be made by a doctor so that proper treatment can be given .
If these infections are not properly treated or if proper treatment is delayed , serious problems , such as pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) may result , which may prevent you from having children in the future .
If you are pregnant and do not get the proper treatment , the infection may be passed to your baby before or during delivery and may cause your baby to have permanent damage .
If you have multiple sex partners or a new sex partner , you should also ask a doctor before use to make sure you do not have an STD .
Why do women get repeated vaginal yeast infections ?
Women may get repeated vaginal yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
Listed below are some of the causes of repeated yeast infections : • • hormonal changes occurring a few days before the monthly period • • use of antibiotics • • use of some birth control pills • • pregnancy • • diabetes ( “ sugar ” or “ high blood sugar ” ) • • clothing – wearing tight layers or moist clothing in the genital area • • weakened immune system – some drugs ( such as chemotherapy or steroids ) and medical conditions can weaken the body ’ s normal ability to fight infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is the infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV – the virus that causes AIDS ) .
Infection with HIV causes the person to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections .
If you get vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) , you should talk to a doctor .
Are vaginal yeast infections sexually transmitted ?
Vaginal yeast infections are usually not spread by having intercourse ( sex ) .
However , if your partner has a rash , itching or discomfort in his genital area , he should contact a doctor to find out the cause of his symptoms and tell the doctor that you are treating your vaginal yeast infection with this product .
How can I prevent repeated vaginal yeast infections ?
To lower your chances of getting another yeast infection : • • Try to keep the genital area cool and dry .
Yeast grow well in warm , moist areas .
The following suggestions may be helpful : ( 1 ) Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes .
( 2 ) Change out of damp clothes or a wet bathing suit as soon as possible .
( 3 ) If you use minipads when you are not having a menstrual period , change the minipads often .
• • Talk with your doctor about any drugs you are now taking .
You are more likely to get a vaginal yeast infection if you are taking certain drugs such as antibiotics , steroids , or birth control pills .
Do not stop taking these drugs without first asking your doctor .
A doctor may need to see you to make sure that you do not have other medical conditions such as diabetes or a weakened immune system .
Can I use this product during my menstrual period ?
Yes , this product can be used during your menstrual period .
In fact , many women get vaginal yeast infections just before their period because of hormonal changes .
Using this product during your period will not affect how well this product works .
If you have started treatment and your period occurs , you should complete the full course of treatment .
Do not use tampons while using this product , because tampons may remove some of the drug from the vagina .
Use deodorant - free sanitary napkins or pads instead , and change them often .
Can I use other vaginal products with this product ?
This drug should not be used with other vaginal products .
• • Douches and tampons may remove some of the vaginal insert from the vagina .
• • • Spermicides may interfere with this product .
• • • Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged by this product and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
How can I get the best results when treating my infection ?
• • Use the vaginal insert , even during your menstrual period .
• • • Use the tube of cream externally only while symptoms are present .
If you have symptoms ( such as itching and irritation ) on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) , apply the cream externally 2 times a day , up to a total of 7 days , as needed .
• • • Dry the genital area thoroughly after a shower , bath or swim .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp clothes as soon as possible .
A dry area is less likely to lead to the overgrowth of yeast .
• • • Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes .
• • • Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement or after urination .
• • • Do not douche , because douching may wash the drug out of the vagina .
• • • Do not use tampons , because they remove some of the drug from the vagina .
Use deodorant - free sanitary napkins or pads as needed .
• • • Do not use spermicides , as they may interfere with this product .
• • • Do not have vaginal intercourse while using this product .
• • • Do not scratch the skin outside the vagina .
Scratching can cause more irritation and can spread the infection .
• • • Tell your doctor about any drugs you are now taking .
Certain drugs such as antibiotics , steroids , and birth control pills , may make it more likely for you to get a vaginal yeast infection .
If you are taking any of these drugs do not stop taking them without first asking a doctor .
• • • If you have any other medical questions or concerns about vaginal yeast infections , call your doctor .
What warnings should I know about when using this product ?
For vaginal use only .
Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time .
You may need a different treatment .
• • • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You could have a more serious condition .
• • • vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• • • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine , warfarin ( coumadin ) , because bleeding or bruising may occur .
When using this product : • • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• • • do not have vaginal intercourse • • • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • • • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product How Should I Use Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Insert ( 1200 mg ) and Miconazole Nitrate Cream ( 2 % ) Combination Pack ?
This product is for adults and children 12 years of age and over .
For children under 12 years , ask a doctor .
Directions for using the Applicator and the Vaginal Insert : 1 Open pouch and remove contents .
( see picture ) .
KEEP CONTENTS DRY BEFORE USE .
OPEN FOIL POUCH JUST BEFORE USE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Place the vaginal insert firmly into the top ( wider end ) of the applicator so it will not fall out .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 Hold the applicator containing the vaginal insert by the opposite end from where the vaginal insert is located .
4 Gently insert the applicator into the vagina as far as it will go comfortably .
This can be done while standing with your feet spread a few inches apart and your knees bent .
Or , you can lie on your back with your knees bent , as shown in the picture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 With one hand holding the barrel , use the other hand to push the plunger all the way in to place the vaginal insert as far back in the vagina as possible .
Then remove both parts of the applicator from the vagina .
6 Throw away applicator after use .
Do not flush in toilet .
You may want to use deodorant - free pads or pantyshields to protect your clothing during the time that you are using this product .
This is because the vaginal insert can leak or you may get some discharge .
Do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , condoms or diaphragms until after you have completed the treatment and your symptoms are gone .
Directions for using the External Vulvar Cream Use the cream twice daily , for up to 7 days as needed .
1 Open the tube by unscrewing the cap .
The first time the tube is opened , press the sharp point of the cap into the sealed end of the tube .
Push down firmly until the seal is open .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Squeeze a small amount of the cream onto your fingertip .
3 Apply the cream onto the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) that itches and is irritated .
4 Screw the cap back on the tube .
5 Repeat steps 2 - 4 , up to two times daily , as needed .
Stop use and ask your doctor if : • • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • • • symptoms last more than 7 days • • • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
These may be signs that this product is not working , or you may have a more serious condition or an allergic reaction .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) What side effects may occur with this product ?
A mild increase in vaginal burning , itching , or irritation may occur when the vaginal insert is inserted .
Abdominal cramping has also been reported .
Stop using this product and consult your doctor if you have abdominal pain , hives , skin rash , or if you have severe vaginal burning , itching , or irritation or swelling .
What should I do if I have questions about this product ?
Questions of a medical nature should be taken up with your doctor .
If you have any other questions or need more information on this product , call our toll - free number 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
Other Information : • • TAMPER - EVIDENT UNIT – do not use if printed sealed pouch is torn , open or incompletely sealed .
• • • do not use if seal over tube opening has been punctured or cannot be seen • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • this is a 1 - dose treatment .
Most women do not get complete relief of their symptoms in just 1 day .
Most women get some improvement in 1 day and complete relief by 7 days .
Active Ingredients : Vaginal Insert : miconazole nitrate , 1200 mg .
External Vulvar Cream : miconazole nitrate , 2 % .
Inactive Ingredients : Vaginal Insert : fractionated coconut oil , gelatin , glycerin , lecithin , light mineral oil , purified water , titanium dioxide , white petrolatum External Vulvar Cream : benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , glyceryl stearate , mineral oil , peglicol 5 oleate , pegoxol 7 stearate , purified water Rev . 03 / 14 Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Allegan , MI 49010 : 19900 00 J2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel 1 DAY TREATMENT DAYTIME - OR - NIGHTTIME INSERT 1 Vaginal Softgel Insert with 1 Applicator Plus External Cream for Itch Relief COMBINATION PACK Compare to the active ingredients of Monistat ® 1 Combination Pack exchange √ select ™ miconazole 1 Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Insert ( 1200 mg ) and Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream ( 2 % ) VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL – COMBINATION PACK MAXIMUM STRENGTH INSERT 1 Vaginal Softgel Insert with 1 Applicator Plus External Cream For Itch Relief NET WT .
1 Vaginal Softgel Insert + 0 . 32 oz .
( 9 g ) Tube quality value [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
