WARNING : ADDICTION , ABUSE , AND MISUSE ; LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION ; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION ; ULTRA - RAPID METABOLISM OF TRAMADOL AND OTHER RISK FACTORS FOR LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION IN CHILDREN ; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME ; INTERACTIONS WITH DRUGS AFFECTING CYTOCHROME P450 ISOENZYMES ; AND RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS SEE FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION FOR COMPLETE BOXED WARNING .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets expose users to risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse , which can lead to overdose and death .
Assess patient ’ s risk before prescribing and monitor regularly for these behaviors and conditions .
( 5 . 1 ) Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression may occur .
Monitor closely , especially upon initiation or following a dose increase .
Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets intact , and not to cut , break , chew , crush , or dissolve the tablets to avoid exposure to a potentially fatal dose of tramadol .
( 5 . 2 ) Accidental ingestion of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets , especially by children , can result in a fatal overdose of tramadol .
( 5 . 2 ) Life - threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received tramadol .
Some of the reported cases followed tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy ; in at least one case , the child had evidence of being an ultra - rapid metabolizer of tramadol due to a CYP2D6 polymorphism ( 5 . 3 ) .
Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in children younger than 12 years of age and in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy ( 4 ) .
Avoid the use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of tramadol .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Prolonged use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , which may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated .
If prolonged opioid use is required in a pregnant woman , advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available .
( 5 . 4 ) The effects of concomitant use or discontinuation of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers , 3A4 inhibitors , or 2D6 inhibitors with tramadol are complex .
Use of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers , 3A4 inhibitors , or 2D6 inhibitors with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets requires careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug , tramadol , and the active metabolite , M1 ( 5 . 5 , 7 ) Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants , including alcohol , may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Reserve concomitant prescribing for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate ; limit dosages and durations to the minimum required ; and follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
( 5 . 6 , 7 ) Tramadol hydrochloride is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily around - the - clock , long - term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse with opioids , even at recommended doses , and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended - release opioid formulations , reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options ( e . g . , non - opioid analgesics or immediate - release opioids ) are ineffective , not tolerated , or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain .
( 1 ) Tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated as an as - needed ( prn ) analgesic .
( 1 ) To be prescribed only by healthcare providers knowledgeable in use of potent opioids for management of chronic pain .
( 2 . 1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2 . 1 ) .
Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain , patient response , prior analgesic experience , and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse .
( 2 . 1 ) Do not exceed a daily dose of 300 mg tramadol .
Do not use with other tramadol products .
( 2 . 1 ) For opioid - naïve and opioid non - tolerant patients , initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily , then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance .
( 2 . 2 ) For patients currently on tramadol IR , calculate total 24 - hr IR dose , and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets at a dose rounded down to next lower 100 mg increment ; then adjust dose according to need and tolerance .
See full prescribing information for instructions on conversion , titration , and maintenance of therapy .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in a physically - dependent patient .
( 2 . 4 ) Children younger than 12 years of age ( 4 ) Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy .
( 4 ) Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction , including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to tramadol ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or use within the last 14 days ( 4 ) Serotonin Syndrome : Potentially life - threatening condition could result from concomitant serotonergic drug administration .
Discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
( 5 . 7 ) Risk of Seizure : Present within recommended dosage range .
Risk is increased with higher than recommended doses and concomitant use of SSRIs , SNRIs , anorectics , tricyclic antidepressants and other tricyclic compounds , other opioids , MAOIs , neuroleptics , other drugs that reduce seizure threshold , in patients with epilepsy or at risk for seizures .
( 5 . 8 , 7 ) Risk of Suicide : Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in suicidal or addiction - prone patients .
Use with caution in those taking tranquilizers , antidepressants or abuse alcohol .
( 5 . 9 ) Adrenal Insufficiency : If diagnosed , treat with physiologic replacement of corticosteroids , and wean patient off of the opioid .
( 5 . 10 ) Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly , Cachectic , or Debilitated Patients : Monitor closely , particularly during initiation and titration .
( 5 . 11 ) Severe Hypotension : Monitor during dosage initiation and titration .
Avoid use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with circulatory shock .
( 5 . 12 ) Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure , Brain Tumors , Head Injury , or Impaired Consciousness : Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression .
Avoid use of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma .
( 5 . 13 ) Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % and ≥ 2 x placebo rate ) : Dizziness , constipation , nausea , headache , somnolence , flushing , pruritus , vomiting , insomnia , dry mouth .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Mixed Agonist / Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
( 5 . 16 , 7 ) Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
