1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VIOKACE tablets , in combination with a proton pump inhibitor , is indicated in adults for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy .
VIOKACE is a combination of porcine - derived lipases , proteases , and amylases .
VIOKACE , in combination with a proton pump inhibitor , is indicated in adults for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION VIOKACE is not interchangeable with any other pancrelipase product .
VIOKACE is orally administered .
Therapy should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose and gradually increased .
The dosage of VIOKACE should be individualized based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present , and the fat content of the diet as described in the Limitations on Dosing below [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
VIOKACE is not interchangeable with any other pancrelipase product .
VIOKACE tablets should be swallowed whole .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
( 2 . 1 ) Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Begin with 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Individualize dosage based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present and the fat content of the diet .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Administration Since VIOKACE is not enteric - coated , it should be taken in combination with a proton pump inhibitor [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
VIOKACE should be taken during meals or snacks , with sufficient fluid .
Tablets should be swallowed whole .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth to avoid mucosal irritation .
2 . 2 Dosage Dosage recommendations for pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy were published following the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences . 1 , 2 , 3 VIOKACE should be administered in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the Conferences provided in the following paragraph .
Only the adult dosing guidelines are shown below .
Patients may be dosed on a fat ingestion - based or actual body weight - based dosing scheme .
Additional recommendations for pancreatic enzyme therapy in patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy are based on a clinical trial conducted in these populations .
Enzyme dosing should begin with 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
Usually , half of the prescribed VIOKACE dose for an individualized full meal should be given with each snack .
The total daily dosage should reflect approximately three meals plus two or three snacks per day .
In one clinical trial , patients received VIOKACE at a dose of 125 , 280 lipase units per meal while consuming 100 g of fat per day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Lower starting doses recommended in the literature are consistent with the 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal lowest starting dose recommended for adults in the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 The initial starting dose and increases in the dose per meal should be individualized based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present , and the fat content of the diet .
Limitations on Dosing Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines . 1 , 2 , 3 If symptoms and signs of steatorrhea persist , the dosage may be increased by the healthcare professional .
Patients should be instructed not to increase the dosage on their own .
There is great inter - individual variation in response to enzymes ; thus , a range of doses is recommended .
Changes in dosage may require an adjustment period of several days .
If doses are to exceed 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal , further investigation is warranted .
Doses greater than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption .
Doses greater than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic stricture , indicative of fibrosing colonopathy , in children less than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients currently receiving higher doses than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The active ingredient in VIOKACE evaluated in clinical trials is lipase .
VIOKACE is dosed in lipase units .
Other active ingredients include protease and amylase .
Each VIOKACE tablet strength contains the specified amounts of lipase , protease , and amylase as follows : • • 10 , 440 USP units of lipase ; 39 , 150 USP units of protease ; 39 , 150 USP units of amylase tablets are tan , round , biconvex and have VIO9111 engraved on one side and 9111 on the other side .
• • 20 , 880 USP units of lipase ; 78 , 300 USP units of protease ; 78 , 300 USP units of amylase tablets are tan , oval , biconvex with V16 engraved on one side and 9116 on the other side .
• • Tablets : 10 , 440 USP units of lipase ; 39 , 150 USP units of protease ; 39 , 150 USP units of amylase ( 3 ) • • Tablets : 20 , 880 USP units of lipase ; 78 , 300 USP units of protease ; 78 , 300 USP units of amylase ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Fibrosing colonopathy is associated with high - dose use of pancreatic enzyme replacement .
Exercise caution when doses of VIOKACE exceed 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • • To avoid irritation of oral mucosa , do not chew VIOKACE or retain in the mouth .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Exercise caution when prescribing VIOKACE to patients with gout , renal impairment , or hyperuricemia .
( 5 . 3 ) • • There is theoretical risk of viral transmission with all pancreatic enzyme products including VIOKACE .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Exercise caution when administering pancrelipase to a patient with a known allergy to proteins of porcine origin .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Fibrosing Colonopathy Fibrosing colonopathy has been reported following treatment with different pancreatic enzyme products . 5 , 6 Fibrosing colonopathy is a rare , serious adverse reaction initially described in association with high - dose pancreatic enzyme use , usually over a prolonged period of time and most commonly reported in pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis .
The underlying mechanism of fibrosing colonopathy remains unknown .
Doses of pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic stricture in children less than 12 years of age . 1 Patients with fibrosing colonopathy should be closely monitored because some patients may be at risk of progressing to stricture formation .
It is uncertain whether regression of fibrosing colonopathy occurs . 1 It is generally recommended , unless clinically indicated , that enzyme doses should be less than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Doses greater than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption .
Patients receiving higher doses than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range .
5 . 2 Potential for Irritation to Oral Mucosa Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth to avoid irritation of oral mucosa , and / or loss of enzyme activity .
VIOKACE should not be crushed or chewed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Potential for Risk of Hyperuricemia Caution should be exercised when prescribing VIOKACE to patients with gout , renal impairment , or hyperuricemia .
Porcine - derived pancreatic enzyme products contain purines that may increase blood uric acid levels .
5 . 4 Potential for Viral Exposure from the Product Source VIOKACE is sourced from pancreatic tissue from pigs used for food consumption .
Although the risk that VIOKACE will transmit an infectious agent to humans has been reduced by testing for certain viruses during manufacturing and by inactivating certain viruses during manufacturing , there is a theoretical risk for transmission of viral disease , including diseases caused by novel or unidentified viruses .
Thus , the presence of porcine viruses that might infect humans cannot be definitely excluded .
However , no cases of transmission of an infectious illness associated with the use of porcine pancreatic extracts have been reported .
5 . 5 Allergic Reactions Caution should be exercised when administering pancrelipase to a patient with a known allergy to proteins of porcine origin .
Rarely , severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , asthma , hives , and pruritus , have been reported with other pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) .
The risks and benefits of continued VIOKACE treatment in patients with severe allergy should be taken into consideration with the overall clinical needs of the patient .
5 . 6 Potential for Exacerbation of Symptoms of Lactose Intolerance VIOKACE tablets contain lactose monohydrate .
Patients who have lactose intolerance may not be able to tolerate VIOKACE .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions reported with different pancreatic enzyme products of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) that are described elsewhere in the label include fibrosing colonopathy , hyperuricemia and allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 and 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2 chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy patients ( greater than or equal to 7 % ) receiving VIOKACE are biliary tract stones and anal pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Nestlé HealthCare Nutrition , Inc . at 1 - 833 - 920 - 2178 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The short - term safety of VIOKACE was assessed in a single , multicenter , randomized , parallel , placebo - controlled , double - blind study of 50 patients , ages 24 - 70 years , with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( EPI ) due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy .
VIOKACE Tablets ( 20 , 880 USP units of lipase per tablet ) or placebo were administered as 22 tablets per day ( 6 tablets with 3 meals and 2 tablets with 2 of 3 snacks ) .
Duration of exposure ranged from 6 to 7 days .
The majority of the subjects were Caucasian ( 96 % ) and male ( 82 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 7 % ) were biliary tract stones and anal pruritus .
Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 patient ( greater than or equal to 3 % ) treated with VIOKACE at a higher rate than with placebo .
Two adverse reactions reported in greater than one patient were biliary tract stones and anal pruritus .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Occurring in at Least 1 Patient ( greater than or equal to 3 % ) in Chronic Pancreatitis or Pancreatectomy Treatment Group MedDRA Primary System Organ Class / Adverse Reactions VIOKACE ( N = 30 ) Placebo ( N = 20 ) Blood And Lymphatic System Disorders Anemia 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Anal pruritus 2 ( 7 % ) 0 Abdominal pain 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Ascites 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Flatulence 1 ( 3 % ) 0 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Edema peripheral 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Hepatobiliary Disorders Biliary tract stones 2 ( 7 % ) 0 Hydrocholecystis 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Infections and Infestations Viral infection 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Nervous System Disorders Headache 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Renal and Urinary Disorders Renal cyst 1 ( 3 % ) 0 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 1 ( 3 % ) 0 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Post - marketing data for VIOKACE have been available since 2003 .
The safety data are similar to that described below .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Pancreatic enzyme products ( delayed and immediate - release ) with different formulations of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) have been used for the treatment of patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis and other conditions , such as chronic pancreatitis .
The long - term safety profile of these products has been described in the medical literature .
The most serious adverse events included fibrosing colonopathy , distal intestinal obstruction syndrome ( DIOS ) , recurrence of pre - existing carcinoma , and severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , asthma , hives , and pruritus .
The most commonly reported adverse events were gastrointestinal disorders , including abdominal pain , diarrhea , flatulence , constipation and nausea , and skin disorders including pruritus , urticaria and rash .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interactions have been identified .
No formal interaction studies have been conducted .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • The safety and effectiveness of VIOKACE in pediatric patients have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) • • VIOKACE use in pediatric patients may result in suboptimal growth due to tablet degradation in the gastric environment .
In general , delayed - release ( enteric - coated ) capsules should be used for pediatric patients .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Published data from case reports with pancrelipase use in pregnant women have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Pancrelipase is minimally absorbed systematically ; therefore , maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pancrelipase .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of pancrelipase in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Pancrelipase is minimally absorbed systemically following oral administration , therefore maternal use is not expected to result in clinically relevant exposure of breastfed infants to the drug .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for VIOKACE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from VIOKACE or from the underlying maternal conditions .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VIOKACE in pediatric patients have not been established .
In general , delayed - release ( enteric - coated ) capsules should be used for pediatric patients .
Due to greater degradation in the gastric environment , VIOKACE , a non - enteric - coated , pancreatic enzyme replacement product , may have decreased bioavailability and therefore may be less efficacious than enteric - coated formulations . 7 , 8 Thus , use of VIOKACE in pediatric patients may increase the risk of inadequate treatment of pancreatic insufficiency and result in suboptimal weight gain , malnutrition and / or need for larger doses of pancreatic enzyme replacement [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The efficacy of VIOKACE was established in adult patients with concomitant proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) therapy .
The long - term safety of PPI use in pediatric patients has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of VIOKACE did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdose in clinical trials or post - marketing surveillance with VIOKACE .
Chronic high doses of pancreatic enzyme products have been associated with fibrosing colonopathy and colonic strictures [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
High doses of pancreatic enzyme products have been associated with hyperuricosuria and hyperuricemia , and should be used with caution in patients with a history of hyperuricemia , gout , or renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION VIOKACE is a pancreatic enzyme preparation for oral administration consisting of pancrelipase , an extract derived from porcine pancreatic glands .
Pancrelipase contains multiple enzyme classes , including porcine - derived lipases , amylases , and proteases .
Pancrelipase is a beige - white amorphous powder .
It is miscible in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
The active ingredient evaluated in clinical trials is lipase .
VIOKACE is dosed by lipase units .
Other active ingredients include protease and amylase .
Inactive ingredients in VIOKACE include : colloidal silicon dioxide , crosscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , stearic acid and talc .
10 , 440 USP units of lipase ; 39 , 150 USP units of protease ; 39 , 150 USP units of amylase tablets are tan , round biconvex and have VIO9111 engraved on one side and 9111 on the other side .
20 , 880 USP units of lipase ; 78 , 300 USP units of protease ; 78 , 300 USP units of amylase tablets are tan , oval , biconvex with V16 engraved on one side and 9116 on the other side .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The pancreatic enzymes in VIOKACE catalyze the hydrolysis of fats to monoglycerides , glycerol and free fatty acids , proteins into peptides and amino acids , and starches into dextrins and short chain sugars such as maltose and maltriose in the duodenum and proximal small intestine , thereby acting like digestive enzymes physiologically secreted by the pancreas .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pancreatic enzymes are not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract in appreciable amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , genetic toxicology , and animal fertility studies have not been performed with pancrelipase .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The short - term safety and efficacy of VIOKACE were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study comparing VIOKACE Tablets ( 20 , 880 USP units of lipase per tablet ) to placebo in 50 patients , ages 24 to 70 , with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( EPI ) due to chronic pancreatitis ( CP ) or pancreatectomy .
Eighteen patients had a history of pancreatectomy ( 11 were treated with VIOKACE ) .
All patients were maintained on a controlled high fat diet of 100 grams of fat per day .
After a wash - out period ( 6 to 7 days ) , patients were randomized to a fixed dose of VIOKACE ( 22 tablets per day ; 6 tablets per meal and 2 tablets with 2 of 3 snacks ) or placebo , in combination with a proton pump inhibitor .
Forty - nine patients completed the double - blind treatment period ( 6 to 7 days ) ; 29 patients received VIOKACE , and 20 patients received placebo .
The coefficient of fat absorption ( CFA ) was determined by a 72 - hour stool collection during both treatments , when both fat excretion and fat ingestion were measured .
The wash - out period mean CFA was 48 % in the VIOKACE treatment group and was 57 % in the placebo group .
At the end of the double - blind treatment period , the mean CFA was 86 % with VIOKACE treatment compared to 58 % with placebo .
The mean difference in CFA at the end of the double - blind treatment period was 28 percentage points in favor of VIOKACE treatment with 95 % Confidence Interval of ( 21 , 37 ) and p ≤ 0 . 0001 .
Subgroup analyses of the CFA results showed that mean change in CFA with VIOKACE treatment ( from the washout period to the end of the double - blind period ) was greater in patients with lower wash - out period CFA values than in patients with higher wash - out period CFA values .
Only 2 of the patients with a history of total pancreatectomy were treated with VIOKACE .
One of these patients had a CFA of 12 % during the wash - out period and a CFA of 90 % at the end of the double - blind period ; the other patient had a CFA of 38 % during the wash - out period and a CFA of 77 % at the end of the double - blind period .
The remaining 9 patients with a history of partial pancreatectomy treated with VIOKACE had a mean CFA of 56 % during the wash - out period and a mean CFA of 86 % at the end of the double - blind period .
15 REFERENCES • 1 .
Borowitz DS , Grand RJ , Durie PR , et al .
Use of pancreatic enzyme supplements for patients with cystic fibrosis in the context of fibrosing colonopathy .
Journal of Pediatrics .
1995 ; 127 : 681 - 684 .
• 2 .
Borowitz DS , Baker RD , Stallings V . Consensus report on nutrition for pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis .
Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology Nutrition .
2002 Sep ; 35 : 246 - 259 .
• 3 .
Stallings VA , Start LJ , Robinson KA , et al .
Evidence - based practice recommendations for nutrition - related management of children and adults with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency : results of a systematic review .
Journal of the American Dietetic Association .
2008 ; 108 : 832 - 839 .
• 4 . Dominguez - Munoz JE , Pancreatic enzyme therapy for pancreatic exocrine insufficiency .
Current Gastroenterology Reports .
2007 ; 9 : 116 - 122 .
• 5 .
Smyth RL , Ashby D , O ’ Hea U , et al .
Fibrosing colonopathy in cystic fibrosis : results of a case - control study .
Lancet .
1995 ; 346 : 1247 - 1251 .
• 6 .
FitzSimmons SC , Burkhart GA , Borowitz DS , et al .
High - dose pancreatic - enzyme supplements and fibrosing colonopathy in children with cystic fibrosis .
New England Journal of Medicine .
1997 ; 336 : 1283 - 1289 .
• 7 .
Gow R , Francis P , Bradbear R , et al .
Comparative study of varying regimens to improve steatorrhoea and creatorrhoea in cystic fibrosis : effectiveness of an enteric - coated preparation with and without antacids and cimetidine .
Lancet .
November 14 , 1981 : 1071 - 1074 .
• 8 . Ansaldi - Balocco N , Santini B , Sarchi C . Efficacy of pancreatic enzyme supplementation in children with cystic fibrosis : comparison of two preparations by random crossover study and a retrospective study of the same patients at two different ages .
J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr .
1988 ; 7 Suppl 1 : S40 - 5 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VIOKACE tablets 10 , 440 USP units of lipase ; 39 , 150 USP units of protease ; 39 , 150 USP units of amylase Each VIOKACE tablet is available as a tan , round , biconvex tablet with VIO9111 engraved on one side and 9111 on the other side supplied in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 73562 - 104 - 10 ) .
VIOKACE tablets 20 , 880 USP units of lipase ; 78 , 300 USP units of protease ; 78 , 300 USP units of amylase Each VIOKACE tablet is available as a tan , oval , biconvex tablet with V16 engraved on one side and 9116 on the other side supplied in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 73562 - 208 - 10 ) .
Storage and Handling Avoid heat .
VIOKACE tablets should be stored in a dry place in the original container .
Store at room temperature ( 20 - 25 ° C , 68 - 77 ° F ) , brief excursion permitted up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) for up to 24 hrs .
After opening , keep the container tightly closed between uses to protect from moisture .
VIOKACE is dispensed in bottles containing a desiccant .
The desiccant packet should not be eaten .
The desiccant packet will protect the product from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION “ See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) ” 17 . 1 Dosing and Administration • • Instruct patients and caregivers that VIOKACE should only be taken as directed by their doctor .
Patients should be advised that the total daily dose should not exceed 10 , 000 lipase units / kg body weight / day unless clinically indicated .
This needs to be especially emphasized for patients eating multiple snacks and meals per day .
Patients should be informed that if a dose is missed , the next dose should be taken with the next meal or snack as directed .
Doses should not be doubled [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• • Instruct patients and caregivers that VIOKACE should always be taken with food .
Patients should swallow the intact tablets with adequate amounts of liquid at mealtimes [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
17 . 2 Fibrosing Colonopathy Advise patients and caregivers to follow dosing instructions carefully , as doses of pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic strictures in children below the age of 12 years [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Allergic Reactions Advise patients and caregivers to contact their healthcare professional immediately if allergic reactions to VIOKACE develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Distributed by : Nestlé HealthCare Nutrition , Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Manufactured by : Confab Laboratories , Inc .
St . Hubert , Canada All trademarks are owned by Société des Produits Nestlé S . A . , Vevey , Switzerland or used with permission .
© 2020 Nestlé .
Revised 03 / 2020 v1 . 0USPI0112 73314NT10 300881 - 03 Medication Guide MEDICATION GUIDE VIOKACE ® ( vye - oh - kase ) ( pancrelipase ) tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking VIOKACE and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about VIOKACE ?
VIOKACE may increase your chance of having a rare bowel disorder called fibrosing colonopathy .
This condition is serious and may require surgery .
The risk of having this condition may be reduced by following the dosing instructions that your doctor gave you .
Call your doctor right away if you have any unusual or severe : • • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • • bloating • • trouble passing stool ( having bowel movements ) • • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea Take VIOKACE exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Do not take more or less VIOKACE than directed by your doctor .
What is VIOKACE ?
• • VIOKACE is a prescription medicine used with a proton pump inhibitor medicine ( PPI ) to treat adults who cannot digest food normally .
Adults with swelling of the pancreas that lasts a long time ( chronic pancreatitis ) , or who have had some or all of their pancreas removed ( pancreatectomy ) may not digest food normally because they do not make enoughenzymes or because their enzymes are not released into the bowel ( intestine ) .
• • VIOKACE contains a mixture of digestive enzymes ( including lipases , proteases , and amylases ) from pig pancreas .
• • It is not known if VIOKACE is safe and effective in children .
Use of VIOKACE in children may result in poor nutrition and slowing of growth .
What should I tell my doctor before taking VIOKACE ?
Before taking VIOKACE , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you : • • are allergic to pork ( pig ) products • • have a history of blockage of your intestines , or scarring or thickening of your bowel wall ( fibrosing colonopathy ) • • have gout , kidney disease , or a condition called high blood uric acid ( hyperuricemia ) • • have trouble swallowing tablets • • are lactose intolerant • • have any other medical condition • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VIOKACE passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take VIOKACE .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take VIOKACE ?
• • Take VIOKACE tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• • You should not switch VIOKACE with any other pancreatic enzyme product without first talking to your doctor .
• • Do not take more tablets in a day than the number your doctor tells you to take ( total daily dose ) .
• • Always take VIOKACE with a meal or a snack and enough liquid to swallow VIOKACE completely .
If you eat a lot of meals or snacks in a day , be careful not to go over your total daily dose .
• • Your doctor may change your dose based on the amount of fatty foods you eat or based on your weight .
• • Your doctor should also prescribe a medicine for you called a proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) to decrease stomach acid .
VIOKACE should be taken with a PPI to help prevent VIOKACE from breaking down in your stomach .
• • Swallow VIOKACE tablets whole .
Do not crush or chew the tablets .
Be careful to make sure that no VIOKACE is left in your mouth .
Crushing , chewing or holding the VIOKACE tablets in your mouth may cause irritation in your mouth , or change the way VIOKACE works in your body .
• • If you forget to take VIOKACE , wait until your next meal and take your usual number of tablets .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
Do not take two doses at one time .
What are the possible side effects of VIOKACE ?
VIOKACE may cause serious side effects , including : • • See “ What is the most important information I should know about VIOKACE ? ”
• • Irritation of the inside of your mouth .
This can happen if VIOKACE is not swallowed completely .
• • Increase in blood uric acid levels .
This may cause worsening of swollen , painful joints ( gout ) caused by an increase in your blood uric levels .
• • Allergic reactions , including trouble with breathing , skin rashes , or swollen lips .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of these symptoms .
The most common side effects of VIOKACE include : • • you can develop stones that form in your gallbladder and the tubes that carry bile to your small intestines .
• • anal itching Other possible side effects : VIOKACE and other pancreatic enzyme products are made from the pancreas of pigs , the same pigs people eat as pork .
These pigs may carry viruses .
Although it has never been reported , it may be possible for a person to get a viral infection from taking pancreatic enzyme products that come from pigs .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects of VIOKACE .
For more information ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Nestlé HealthCare Nutrition at 1 - 833 - 920 - 2178 .
How should I store VIOKACE ?
• • Store VIOKACE at room temperature , 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Avoid heat .
• • Keep VIOKACE in a dry place and in its original container .
• • After opening the bottle , keep it closed tightly between uses to protect from moisture .
• • The VIOKACE bottle contains a desiccant packet to help keep your medicine dry ( protect it from moisture ) .
Do not eat or throw away the desiccant packet .
Keep VIOKACE and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VIOKACE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use VIOKACE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VIOKACE to other people to take , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about VIOKACE .
If you would like more information , talk to your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about VIOKACE that is written for healthcare providers .
For more information , go to www . viokace . com or call toll - free 1 - 833 - 920 - 2178 .
What are the ingredients in VIOKACE ?
Active ingredient : lipase , protease and amylase Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crosscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , stearic acid and talc .
Distributed by : Nestlé HealthCare Nutrition , Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Manufactured by : Confab Laboratories , Inc .
St . Hubert , Canada All trademarks are owned by Société des Produits Nestlé S . A . , Vevey , Switzerland or used with permission .
© 2020 Nestlé .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 03 / 2020 v1 . 0MG0112 73314NT10 300881 - 03 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Lipase 10 , 440 USP Units [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC # 73562 - 104 - 10 Viokace ® ( pancrelipase ) Tablets Each tablet contains : 10 , 440 USP Units Lipase 39 , 150 USP Units Amylase 39 , 150 USP Units Protease VIOKACE ® is dosed based on lipase units 100 TABLETS VIOKACE ® tablets should be swallowed whole .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Lipase 20 , 880 USP Units [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC # 73562 - 208 - 10 Viokace ® ( pancrelipase ) Tablets Each tablet contains : 20 , 880 USP Units Lipase 78 , 300 USP Units Amylase 78 , 330 USP Units Protease VIOKACE ® is dosed based on lipase units 100 TABLETS VIOKACE ® tablets should be swallowed whole .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
