DESCRIPTION Albuterol Sulfate Syrup contains albuterol sulfate , USP , the racemic form of albuterol and a relatively selective beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Albuterol sulfate has the chemical name ( ± ) α - [ ( - butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - - xylene - a , a ' - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , and the following chemical structure : 21 tertm [ MULTIMEDIA ] Albuterol sulfate has a molecular weight of 576 . 70 and the molecular formula ( C H NO ) o H SO .
Albuterol sulfate is a white or practically white powder freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol , in chloroform , and in ether per USP definition .
13213224 The World Health Organization recommended name for albuterol base is salbutamol .
Each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) , for oral administration contains 2 . 4 mg of albuterol sulfate equivalent to 2 mg of albuterol .
Albuterol Sulfate Syrup also contains the inactive ingredients citric acid anhydrous , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , orange flavor , purified water , saccharin , sodium benzoate , and sodium citrate .
The pH of the syrup is 3 . 5 to 4 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY studies and pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established ( see ) .
In vitroin vivo222WARNINGS The pharmacologic effects of beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , including albuterol , are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta - adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase , the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
Increased cyclic AMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
Albuterol has been shown in most controlled clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Albuterol is longer acting than isoproterenol in most patients by any route of administration because it is not a substrate for the cellular uptake processes for catecholamines nor for catechol - - methyl transferase .
0 Preclinical Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 . 0 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Albuterol is rapidly absorbed after oral administration of 10 mL of Albuterol Sulfate Syrup ( 4 mg of albuterol ) in normal volunteers .
Maximum plasma concentrations of about 18 ng / mL of albuterol are achieved within 2 hours , and the drug is eliminated with a half - life of about 5 hours .
In other studies , the analysis of urine samples of patients given 8 mg of tritiated albuterol orally showed that 76 % of the dose was excreted over 3 days , with the majority of the dose being excreted within the first 24 hours .
Sixty percent of this radioactivity was shown to be the metabolite .
Feces collected over this period contained 4 % of the administered dose .
Clinical Trials In controlled clinical trials in patients with asthma , the onset of improvement in pulmonary function , as measured by maximum midexpiratory flow rate ( MMEF ) and forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV ) , was within 30 minutes after a dose of Albuterol Sulfate Syrup , with peak improvement occurring between 2 and 3 hours .
In a controlled clinical trial involving 55 children , clinically significant improvement ( defined as maintaining a 15 % or more increase in FEV and a 20 % or more increase in MMEF over baseline values ) continued to be recorded up to 6 hours .
No decrease in the effectiveness was reported in one uncontrolled study of 32 children who took Albuterol Sulfate Syrup for a 3 - month period .
11 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate Syrup is indicated for the relief of bronchospasm in adults and children 2 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol Sulfate Syrup is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol or any of its components .
WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects Albuterol Sulfate Syrup , like all other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of albuterol sulfate syrup at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , Albuterol Sulfate Syrup , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of albuterol sulfate syrup than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Paradoxical Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate Syrup can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , albuterol sulfate syrup should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
Use of Anti - Inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , and oropharyngeal edema .
Albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes .
Rarely , erythema multiforme and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have been associated with the administration of albuterol sulfate in children .
PRECAUTIONS General Albuterol , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen in individual patients and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Information for patients The action of Albuterol Sulfate Syrup may last up to 6 hours or longer .
Albuterol Sulfate Syrup should not be taken more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of albuterol sulfate syrup without medical consultation .
If you find that treatment with albuterol sulfate syrup becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms get worse , and / or you need to take the product more frequently than usual , you should seek medical attention immediately .
While you are taking albuterol sulfate syrup , other asthma medications and inhaled drugs should be taken only as directed by your physician .
Common adverse effects include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , and tremor or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about use of albuterol sulfate syrup .
Effective and safe use of albuterol sulfate syrup includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of Albuterol Sulfate Syrup and other oral sympathomimetic agents is not recommended since such combined use may lead to deleterious cardiovascular effects .
This recommendation does not preclude the judicious use of an aerosol bronchodilator of the adrenergic stimulant type in patients receiving Albuterol Sulfate Syrup .
Such concomitant use , however , should be individualized and not given on a routine basis .
If regular coadministration is required , then alternative therapy should be considered .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants Albuterol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents because the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Beta - Blockers Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as albuterol sulfate syrup , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a significant dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at dietary doses of 2 . 0 , 10 , and 50 mg / kg ( approximately ½ , 2 , and 10 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children , on a mg / m basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 60 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on a mg / m basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in the Golden hamster albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on a mg / m basis ) .
222 Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test with or without metabolic activation using tester strains TA1537 , TA1538 , and TA98 or WP2 , WP2uvrA , and WP67 .
No forward mutation was seen in yeast strain S9 nor any mitotic gene conversion in yeast strain JD1 with or without metabolic activation .
Fluctuation assays in TA98 and E . coli WP2 , both with metabolic activation , were negative .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay at intraperitoneal doses of up to 200 mg / kg .
S . typhimuriumE .
coliS .
cerevisiaeS .
cerevisiaeS .
typhimurium Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C . Albuterol has been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice at subcutaneous ( sc ) doses of 0 . 025 , 0 . 25 , and 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 3 / 1000 , 3 / 100 , and 3 / 10 , respectively , the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m basis ) , showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation at the lowest dose , 0 . 025 mg / kg .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) subcutaneously ( approximately 3 / 10 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m basis ) .
22 A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol was administered orally at a 50 mg / kg dose ( approximately 25 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on a mg / m basis ) .
2 There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Albuterol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been rarely reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
No consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , and a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Use in Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of albuterol sulfate syrup for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Tocolysis Albuterol has not been approved for the management of preterm labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including maternal pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta - agonists , including albuterol .
2 Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in some animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below 2 years of age have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reactions to albuterol sulfate syrup in adults and older children were : Percent Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Adults and Children ( 6 - 14 Years of Age ) Reaction Percent Incidence Central nervous system Tremor 10 % Nervousness 9 % Shakiness 9 % Headache 4 % Dizziness 3 % Hyperactivity 2 % Excitement 2 % Sleeplessness 1 % Disturbed sleep < 1 % Irritable behavior < 1 % Dilated pupils < 1 % Weakness < 1 % Cardiovascular Tachycardia 1 % Palpitations < 1 % Sweating < 1 % Chest pain < 1 % Ear , nose , and throat Epistaxis 1 % Gastrointestinal Increased appetite 3 % Epigastric pain < 1 % Stomachache < 1 % Musculoskeletal Muscle spasm < 1 % Respiratory Cough < 1 % In clinical trials , the following adverse reactions to albuterol sulfate syrup were noted more frequently in young children 2 to 6 years of age than in older children and adults : Percent Incidence of Adverse Reactions Noted More Frequently in Children 2 to 6 Years of Age Than in Older Children and AdultsReaction Percent Incidence Central nervous system Excitement 20 % Nervousness 15 % Hyperkinesia 4 % Sleeplessness 2 % Emotional lability 1 % Fatigue 1 % Cardiovascular Tachycardia 2 % Pallor 1 % Gastrointestinal Gastrointestinal symptoms 2 % Loss of Appetite 1 % Ophthalmologic Conjunctivitis 1 % Cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , hoarseness , oropharyngeal edema , and arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia , extrasystoles ) have been reported after the use of albuterol sulfate syrup .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypertension , angina , vomiting , vertigo , central nervous system stimulation , unusual taste , and drying or irritation of the oropharynx .
The reactions are generally transient in nature , and it is usually not necessary to discontinue treatment with Albuterol Sulfate Syrup .
In selected cases , however , dosage may be reduced temporarily ; after the reaction has subsided , dosage should be increased in small increments to the optimal dosage .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and sleeplessness .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of albuterol sulfate syrup .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of albuterol sulfate syrup together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of albuterol sulfate syrup .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 240 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on a mg / m basis ) .
In mature rats the subcutaneous ( sc ) median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 110 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on a mg / m basis ) .
In small young rats the oral median lethal dose is approximately 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 480 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on a mg / m basis ) .
222 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The following dosages of Albuterol Sulfate Syrup are expressed in terms of albuterol base .
Usual Dosage The usual starting dosage for adults and children over 14 years of age is 2 mg ( 1 teaspoonful ) or 4 mg ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) three or four times a day .
Adults and Children Over 14 Years of Age : The usual starting dosage for children over 6 years to 14 years of age is 2 mg ( 1 teaspoonful ) three or four times a day .
Children Over 6 Years to 14 Years of Age : Dosing in children from 2 to 5 years of age should be initiated at 0 . 1 mg / kg of body weight three times a day .
This starting dosage should not exceed 2 mg ( 1 teaspoonful ) three times a day .
Children 2 to 5 Years of Age : Dosage Adjustment For adults and children over 14 years of age , a dosage above 4 mg four times a day should be used only when the patient fails to respond .
If a favorable response does not occur with the 4 - mg initial dosage , it should be cautiously increased stepwise up to a maximum of 8 mg four times a day as tolerated .
Adults and Children Over 14 Years of Age : For children from 6 to 14 years of age who fail to respond to the initial starting dosage of 2 mg four times a day , the dosage may be cautiously increased stepwise , but not to exceed 24 mg / day ( given in divided doses ) .
Children Over 6 Years to 14 Years of Age Who Fail to Respond to the Initial Starting Dosage of 2 mg Four Times a Day : For children 2 to 5 years of age who do not respond satisfactorily to the initial starting dosage , the dosage may be increased stepwise to 0 . 2 mg / kg of body weight three times a day , but not to exceed a maximum of 4 mg ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) given three times a day .
Children 2 to 5 Years of Age Who Do Not Respond Satisfactorily to the Initial Dosage : The initial dosage should be restricted to 2 mg three or four times a day and individually adjusted thereafter .
Elderly Patients and Those Sensitive to Beta - adrenergic Stimulators : HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 17856 - 0740 - 3 in a CUP of 5 SYRUPS ALBUTEROL SULFATE SYRUP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
