Tetracaine Hydrochloride is a sterile aqueous topical anesthetic ophthalmic solution .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C15H24N2O2 · HCI Mol .
wt .
300 . 83 Benzoic acid , 4 - [ butylamino ] - , 2 - [ dimethylamino ] ethyl ester , monohydrochloride .
EACH mL CONTAINS : ACTIVE : Tetracaine Hydrochloride 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) ; INACTIVES : Boric Acid , Potassium Chloride , Edetate Disodium and Purified Water .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 7 - 6 . 0 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Chlorobutanol 0 . 4 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Topical anesthetics stabilize the neuronal membrane and prevent the initiation and transmission of nerve impulses , thereby effecting local anesthesia .
The onset of anesthesia usually begins within 30 seconds and lasts a relatively short period of time .
For procedures in which a rapid and short - acting topical ophthalmic anesthetic is indicated such as in tonometry , gonioscopy , removal of corneal foreign bodies , conjunctival scraping for diagnostic purposes , suture removal from the cornea , other short corneal and conjunctival procedures .
Should not be used by the patient without physician supervision , or in those persons showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
This product should never be prescribed for the patient ’ s own use .
Prolonged use results in diminished duration of anesthesia and retarded healing .
This may cause the drug to be used more frequently creating a “ vicious circle . ”
Subsequent corneal infection and / or corneal opacification with accompanying permanent visual loss or corneal perforation may occur .
FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY — NOT FOR INJECTION .
To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding area with the dropper tip .
Patient should be advised not to touch or rub the eye ( s ) until the effect of the anesthetic has worn off .
Information to the Patient : After instillation of this product , the surface of the eye is insensitive and can be scratched without feeling it .
Do not rub eye .
Do not instill this product repeatedly because severe eye damage may occur .
DO NOT USE IF SOLUTION CONTAINS CRYSTALS , OR IS CLOUDY OR DISCOLORED .
Transient symptoms ( signs ) such as stinging , burning and conjunctival redness may occur .
A rare , severe , immediate allergic cornea reaction has been reported , characterized by acute diffuse epithelial keratitis with filament formation and / or sloughing of large areas of necrotic epithelium , diffuse stromal edema , descemetitis and iritis .
For tonometry and other procedures of short duration , instill one or two drops just prior to evaluation .
For minor surgical procedures such as foreign body or suture removal , administer one to two drops every five to ten minutes for one to three instillations .
For prolonged anesthesia as in cataract extraction , instill one or two drops in the eye ( s ) every five to ten minutes for three to five doses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tetracaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 5 % is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following size : 15 mL Store between 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
