Indications and Usage : Benefits of lowering blood pressure ( 1 ) 12 / 2011 Warnings and Precautions : Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma ( 5 . 9 ) 2 / 2011 WARNING : AVOID USE IN PREGNANCY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue DiovanHCT ® as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] WARNING : AVOID USE IN PREGNANCY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue DiovanHCT as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes , including hydrochlorothiazide and the ARB class to which valsartan principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with Diovan HCT .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Diovan HCT may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy .
Diovan HCT may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals .
The choice of Diovan HCT as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks .
Patients with stage 2 hypertension are at a relatively high risk for cardiovascular events ( such as strokes , heart attacks , and heart failure ) , kidney failure , and vision problems , so prompt treatment is clinically relevant .
The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure , the target goal and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy .
Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient ’ s risk .
Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with Diovan HCT compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with Diovan HCT 320 / 25 mg , based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure .
The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling .
The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure < 140 mmHg at Week 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure < 90 mmHg at Week 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure < 130 mmHg at Week 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure < 80 mmHg at Week 8 For example , a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160 / 100 mmHg has about a 41 % likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg ( systolic ) and 60 % likelihood of achieving < 90 mmHg ( diastolic ) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50 % ( systolic ) or 57 % ( diastolic ) .
The likelihood of achieving these goals on Diovan HCT rises to about 84 % ( systolic ) or 80 % ( diastolic ) .
The likelihood of achieving these goals on placebo is about 23 % ( systolic ) or 36 % ( diastolic ) .
Diovan HCT is the combination tablet of valsartan ( Diovan ) , an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , a diuretic .
Diovan HCT is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure : • In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) • As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General considerations : • Maximum effects within 2 to 4 weeks after dose change ( 2 . 1 ) • Renal impairment : Not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min ) ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 8 ) • Diovan HCT may be administered with or without food .
Hypertension • Add - on therapy OR Initial therapy : Initiate with 160 / 12 . 5 mg .
Titrate upwards as needed to a maximum dose of 320 / 25 mg .
One tablet daily ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) • Replacement therapy : may be substituted for titrated components ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 General Considerations The side effects of valsartan are generally rare and appear independent of dose .
Those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Dose once - daily .
Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose .
Diovan HCT may be administered with or without food .
Diovan HCT may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Elderly patients : No initial dosage adjustment is required for elderly patients .
Renal impairment : The usual regimens of therapy with Diovan HCT may be followed as long as the patient ’ s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so Diovan HCT is not recommended .
Hepatic impairment : Care should be exercised with dosing of Diovan HCT in patients with hepatic impairment .
Start with a low dose and titrate slowly in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Add - On Therapy A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with valsartan ( or another ARB ) alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with Diovan HCT .
A patient who experiences dose - limiting adverse reactions on either component alone may be switched to Diovan HCT containing a lower dose of that component in combination with the other to achieve similar blood pressure reductions .
The clinical response to Diovan HCT should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy , the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320 / 25 mg .
2 . 3 Replacement Therapy Diovan HCT may be substituted for the titrated components .
2 . 4 Initial Therapy The usual starting dose is Diovan HCT 160 / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320 / 25 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Diovan HCT is not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 80 / 12 . 5 mg tablets , imprinted CG / HGH ( Side 1 / Side 2 ) 160 / 12 . 5 mg tablets , imprinted CG / HHH 160 / 25 mg tablets , imprinted NVR / HXH 320 / 12 . 5 mg tablets , imprinted NVR / HIL 320 / 25 mg tablets , imprinted NVR / CTI Tablets ( valsartan / HCTZ mg ) : 80 / 12 . 5 , 160 / 12 . 5 , 160 / 25 , 320 / 12 . 5 , 320 / 25 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Anuria ; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide - derived drugs 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Avoid fetal or neonatal exposure ( 5 . 1 ) • Symptomatic hypotension with volume - and / or salt - depletion .
Correct volume - depletion prior to administration .
Not recommended as initial therapy in volume - depleted patients ( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Use with caution in patients with impaired hepatic ( 5 . 3 ) or renal ( 5 . 8 ) function • Observe for signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance ( 5 . 7 ) • Thiazide diuretics may cause an exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus ( 5 . 5 ) • Hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with acute angle - closure glaucoma ( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality Diovan HCT can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality when used in pregnancy .
In several dozen published cases , ACE inhibitor use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy was associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Intrauterine exposure to thiazide diuretics is associated with fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume - and / or Salt - Depleted Patients Excessive reduction of blood pressure was rarely seen ( 0 . 7 % ) in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with Diovan HCT in controlled trials .
In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients receiving high doses of diuretics , symptomatic hypotension may occur .
This condition should be corrected prior to administration of Diovan HCT , or the treatment should start under close medical supervision .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 3 Impaired Hepatic Function Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazide diuretics should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Valsartan : As the majority of valsartan is eliminated in the bile , patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , including patients with biliary obstructive disorders , showed lower valsartan clearance ( higher AUCs ) .
Care should be exercised in administering Diovan ( valsartan ) to these patients .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reaction Hydrochlorothiazide : Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
5 . 5 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
5 . 6 Lithium Interaction Hydrochlorothiazide : Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 7 Serum Electrolytes Valsartan – Hydrochlorothiazide : In the controlled trials of various doses of the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia ( serum potassium < 3 . 5 mEq / L ) was 3 . 0 % ; the incidence of hyperkalemia ( serum potassium > 5 . 7 mEq / L ) was 0 . 4 % .
In controlled clinical trials of Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) , the average change in serum potassium was near zero in subjects who received Diovan HCT 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg or 320 / 25 mg , but the average subject who received Diovan HCT 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 80 / 25 mg or 160 / 25 mg experienced a mild reduction in serum potassium .
In clinical trials , the opposite effects of valsartan ( 80 , 160 or 320 mg ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg ) on serum potassium approximately balanced each other in many patients .
In other patients , one or the other effect may be dominant .
Periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Hydrochlorothiazide : All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance : hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , confusion , seizures , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmia and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
In diabetic patients , dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy .
5 . 8 Impaired Renal Function Valsartan : As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , patients with severe congestive heart failure ) , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
Similar outcomes have been reported with Diovan ® .
In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen have been reported .
In a 4 - day trial of valsartan in 12 patients with unilateral renal artery stenosis , no significant increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen were observed .
There has been no long - term use of valsartan in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , but an effect similar to that seen with ACE inhibitors should be anticipated .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
5 . 9 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Diovan HCT were headache and dizziness .
The only adverse experience that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with Diovan HCT and at a higher incidence than placebo was nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 4 % vs . 1 . 9 % ) ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch . 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Hypertension Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) has been evaluated for safety in more than 5 , 700 patients , including over 990 treated for over 6 months , and over 370 for over 1 year .
Adverse experiences have generally been mild and transient in nature and have only infrequently required discontinuation of therapy .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions with Diovan HCT was comparable to placebo .
The overall frequency of adverse reactions was neither dose - related nor related to gender , age , or race .
In controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in 2 . 3 % of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide patients and 3 . 1 % of placebo patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Diovan HCT were headache and dizziness .
The only adverse reaction that occurred in controlled clinical trials in at least 2 % of patients treated with Diovan HCT and at a higher incidence in valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 4372 ) than placebo ( n = 262 ) patients was nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 4 % vs . 1 . 9 % ) .
Dose - related orthostatic effects were seen in fewer than 1 % of patients .
In individual trials , a dose - related increase in the incidence of dizziness was observed in patients treated with Diovan HCT .
Other adverse reactions that have been reported with valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide ( > 0 . 2 % of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide patients in controlled clinical trials ) without regard to causality , are listed below : Cardiovascular : Palpitations and tachycardia Ear and Labyrinth : Tinnitus and vertigo Gastrointestinal : Dyspepsia , diarrhea , flatulence , dry mouth , nausea , abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , and vomiting General and Administration Site Conditions : Asthenia , chest pain , fatigue , peripheral edema and pyrexia Infections and Infestations : Bronchitis , bronchitis acute , influenza , gastroenteritis , sinusitis , upper respiratory tract infection and urinary tract infection Investigations : Blood urea increased Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , back pain , muscle cramps , myalgia , and pain in extremity Nervous System : Dizziness postural , paresthesia , and somnolence Psychiatric : Anxiety and insomnia Renal and Urinary : Pollakiuria Reproductive System : Erectile dysfunction Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal : Dyspnea , cough , nasal congestion , pharyngolaryngeal pain and sinus congestion Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue : Hyperhidrosis and rash Vascular : Hypotension Other reported reactions seen less frequently in clinical trials included abnormal vision , anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , constipation , depression , dehydration , decreased libido , dysuria , epistaxis , flushing , gout , increased appetite , muscle weakness , pharyngitis , pruritus , sunburn , syncope , and viral infection .
Valsartan : In trials in which valsartan was compared to an ACE inhibitor with or without placebo , the incidence of dry cough was significantly greater in the ACE inhibitor group ( 7 . 9 % ) than in the groups who received valsartan ( 2 . 6 % ) or placebo ( 1 . 5 % ) .
In a 129 - patient trial limited to patients who had had dry cough when they had previously received ACE inhibitors , the incidences of cough in patients who received valsartan , hydrochlorothiazide , or lisinopril were 20 % , 19 % , 69 % respectively ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Other reported reactions seen less frequently in clinical trials included chest pain , syncope , anorexia , vomiting , and angioedema .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Other adverse reactions that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body As A Whole : weakness ; Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation ; Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia ; Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions ; Metabolic : hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia ; Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : restlessness ; Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ; Skin : erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis ; Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Initial Therapy - Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg ) , the overall pattern of adverse reactions reported through six weeks of follow - up was similar in patients treated with Diovan HCT as initial therapy and in patients treated with valsartan as initial therapy .
Comparing the groups treated with Diovan HCT ( force - titrated to 320 / 25 mg ) and valsartan ( force - titrated to 320 mg ) , dizziness was observed in 6 % and 2 % of patients , respectively .
Hypotension was observed in 1 % of those patients receiving Diovan HCT and 0 % of patients receiving valsartan .
There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group .
Laboratory changes with Diovan HCT as initial therapy in patients with severe hypertension were similar to those reported with Diovan HCT in patients with less severe hypertension [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in valsartan or valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide postmarketing experience : Hypersensitivity : There are rare reports of angioedema ; Digestive : Elevated liver enzymes and very rare reports of hepatitis ; Renal : Impaired renal function ; Clinical Laboratory Tests : Hyperkalemia ; Dermatologic : Alopecia ; Vascular : Vasculitis ; Nervous System : Syncope .
Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valsartan : No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when valsartan was coadministered with amlodipine , atenolol , cimetidine , digoxin , furosemide , glyburide , hydrochlorothiazide , or indomethacin .
The valsartan - atenolol combination was more antihypertensive than either component , but it did not lower the heart rate more than atenolol alone .
Coadministration of valsartan and warfarin did not change the pharmacokinetics of valsartan or the time - course of the anticoagulant properties of warfarin .
CYP450 Interactions : In vitro metabolism studies indicate that CYP 450 mediated drug interactions between valsartan and co - administered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Transporters : The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2 .
Co - administration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter ( rifampin , cyclosporine ) or efflux transporter ( ritonavir ) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Hydrochlorothiazide : When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Alcohol , Barbiturates , or Narcotics - Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic Drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) - Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other Antihypertensive Drugs - Additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH - Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor Amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) - Possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants , Nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) - Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium - Should not generally be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Diovan HCT .
Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - In some patients , the administration of a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when Diovan HCT and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Carbamazepine – May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia .
Hydrochlorothiazide ( 7 ) : • Alcohol , barbiturates , narcotics : Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension • Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required • Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides • Corticosteroids , Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone ( ACTH ) : Hypokalemia , electrolyte depletion • Lithium : Reduced renal clearance and high risk of lithium toxicity when used with diuretics .
Should not be given with diuretics .
• Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Can reduce diuretic , natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of diuretics .
Observe patient closely .
7 . 3 Clinical Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials , clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Diovan HCT .
Creatinine / Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) : Minor elevations in creatinine and BUN occurred in 2 % and 15 % respectively , of patients taking Diovan HCT and 0 . 4 % and 6 % respectively , given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Greater than 20 % decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit were observed in less than 0 . 1 % of Diovan HCT patients , compared with 0 . 0 % in placebo - treated patients .
Liver Function Tests : Occasional elevations ( greater than 150 % ) of liver chemistries occurred in Diovan HCT - treated patients .
Neutropenia : Neutropenia was observed in 0 . 1 % of patients treated with Diovan HCT and 0 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo .
Serum Electrolytes : [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing Mothers : Nursing or drug should be discontinued ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Diovan HCT , like other drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system , can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when used during the second or third trimester of pregnancy .
Diovan HCT can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists , like valsartan , and angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors exert similar effects on the renin - angiotensin system .
In several dozen published cases , ACE inhibitor use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy was associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios was also reported , presumably from decreased fetal renal function .
In this setting , oligohydramnios was associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus were also reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug .
In a retrospective study , first trimester use of ACE inhibitors , a specific class of drugs acting on the renin - angiotensin system , was associated with a potential risk of birth defects .
When pregnancy occurs in a patient using Diovan HCT , the physician should discontinue Diovan HCT treatment as soon as possible .
The physician should inform the patient about potential risks to the fetus based on the time of gestational exposure to Diovan HCT ( first trimester only or later ) .
If exposure occurs beyond the first trimester , an ultrasound examination should be done .
In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent can not be used to treat the pregnant patient , serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intraamniotic environment .
Routine fetal testing with non - stress tests , biophysical profiles , and / or contraction stress tests may be appropriate based on gestational age and standards of care in the community .
If oligohydramnios occurs in these situations , individualized decisions about continuing or discontinuing Diovan HCT treatment and about pregnancy management should be made by the patient , her physician , and experts in the management of high - risk pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to Diovan HCT should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , these infants may require blood pressure and renal perfusion support .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required to reverse hypotension and / or support decreased renal function .
Healthcare professionals who prescribe drugs acting directly on the renin - angiotensin system should counsel women of childbearing potential about the risks of these agents during pregnancy .
[ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether valsartan is excreted in human milk .
Valsartan was excreted into the milk of lactating rats ; however , animal breast milk drug levels may not accurately reflect human breast milk levels .
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted into human milk and because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from Diovan HCT , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Diovan HCT in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials of Diovan HCT , 764 ( 17 . 5 % ) of patients treated with valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide were ≥ 65 years and 118 ( 2 . 7 % ) were ≥ 75 years .
No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide was observed between these patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE Valsartan – Hydrochlorothiazide : Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
Depressed level of consciousness , circulatory collapse and shock have been reported .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by dialysis .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The most common signs and symptoms observed in patients are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
In rats and marmosets , single oral doses of valsartan up to 1524 and 762 mg / kg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide at doses up to 476 and 238 mg / kg , respectively , were very well tolerated without any treatment - related effects .
These no adverse effect doses in rats and marmosets , respectively , represent 46 . 5 and 23 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of valsartan and 188 and 113 times the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day valsartan in combination with 25 mg / day hydrochlorothiazide and a 60 - kg patient . )
Valsartan : Valsartan was without grossly observable adverse effects at single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg in rats and up to 1000 mg / kg in marmosets , except for salivation and diarrhea in the rat and vomiting in the marmoset at the highest dose ( 60 and 31 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
Hydrochlorothiazide : The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats , which represents 2027 and 4054 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
11 DESCRIPTION Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is a combination of valsartan , an orally active , specific angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) acting on the AT1 receptor subtype , and hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic .
Valsartan , a nonpeptide molecule , is chemically described as N - ( 1 - oxopentyl ) - N - [ [ 2 ′ - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) [ 1 , 1 ′ - biphenyl ] - 4 - yl ] methyl ] - L - Valine .
Its empirical formula is C24H29N5O3 , its molecular weight is 435 . 5 , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Valsartan is a white to practically white fine powder .
It is soluble in ethanol and methanol and slightly soluble in water .
Hydrochlorothiazide USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Hydrochlorothiazide is chemically described as 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , its molecular weight is 297 . 73 , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diovan HCT tablets are formulated for oral administration to contain valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 25 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg and 320 / 25 mg .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , iron oxides , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Valsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Valsartan has much greater affinity ( about 20 , 000 - fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT1 receptor about one 200 th that of valsartan itself .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Valsartan : Valsartan inhibits the pressor effect of angiotensin II infusions .
An oral dose of 80 mg inhibits the pressor effect by about 80 % at peak with approximately 30 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
No information on the effect of larger doses is available .
Removal of the negative feedback of angiotensin II causes a 2 - to 3 - fold rise in plasma renin and consequent rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration in hypertensive patients .
Minimal decreases in plasma aldosterone were observed after administration of valsartan ; very little effect on serum potassium was observed .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients with stable renal insufficiency and patients with renovascular hypertension , valsartan had no clinically significant effects on glomerular filtration rate , filtration fraction , creatinine clearance , or renal plasma flow .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients , valsartan had no notable effects on total cholesterol , fasting triglycerides , fasting serum glucose , or uric acid .
Hydrochlorothiazide : After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Valsartan : Valsartan peak plasma concentration is reached 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
Valsartan shows bi - exponential decay kinetics following intravenous administration , with an average elimination half - life of about 6 hours .
Absolute bioavailability for the capsule formulation is about 25 % ( range 10 % - 35 % ) .
Food decreases the exposure ( as measured by AUC ) to valsartan by about 40 % and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) by about 50 % .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase approximately linearly with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range .
Valsartan does not accumulate appreciably in plasma following repeated administration .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazide diuretics are eliminated by the kidney , with a terminal half - life of 5 - 15 hours .
Geriatric : Exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan is higher by 70 % and the half - life is longer by 35 % in the elderly than in the young .
No dosage adjustment is necessary [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Gender : Pharmacokinetics of valsartan does not differ significantly between males and females .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
Renal Insufficiency : There is no apparent correlation between renal function ( measured by creatinine clearance ) and exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan in patients with different degrees of renal impairment .
Consequently , dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild - to - moderate renal dysfunction .
No studies have been performed in patients with severe impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis .
In the case of severe renal disease , exercise care with dosing of valsartan [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In a study of patients with impaired renal function ( mean creatinine clearance of 19 mL / min ) , the half - life of hydrochlorothiazide elimination was lengthened to 21 hours .
Hepatic Insufficiency : On average , patients with mild - to - moderate chronic liver disease have twice the exposure ( measured by AUC values ) to valsartan of healthy volunteers ( matched by age , sex , and weight ) .
In general , no dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild - to - moderate liver disease .
Care should be exercised in patients with liver disease [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Valsartan : The steady state volume of distribution of valsartan after intravenous administration is small ( 17 L ) , indicating that valsartan does not distribute into tissues extensively .
Valsartan is highly bound to serum proteins ( 95 % ) , mainly serum albumin .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Metabolism Valsartan : The primary metabolite , accounting for about 9 % of dose , is valeryl 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
In vitro metabolism studies involving recombinant CYP 450 enzymes indicated that the CYP 2C9 isoenzyme is responsible for the formation of valeryl - 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
Valsartan does not inhibit CYP 450 isozymes at clinically relevant concentrations .
CYP 450 mediated drug interaction between valsartan and co - administered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Is not metabolized .
Excretion Valsartan : Valsartan , when administered as an oral solution , is primarily recovered in feces ( about 83 % of dose ) and urine ( about 13 % of dose ) .
The recovery is mainly as unchanged drug , with only about 20 % of dose recovered as metabolites .
Following intravenous administration , plasma clearance of valsartan is about 2 L / h and its renal clearance is 0 . 62 L / h ( about 30 % of total clearance ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated as unchanged drug within 24 hours .
The elimination half - life is between 5 . 8 and 18 . 9 hours .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Valsartan - Hydrochlorothiazide : No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity or fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
However , these studies have been conducted for valsartan as well as hydrochlorothiazide alone .
Based on the preclinical safety and human pharmacokinetic studies , there is no indication of any adverse interaction between valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Valsartan : There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when valsartan was administered in the diet to mice and rats for up to 2 years at doses up to 160 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses in mice and rats are about 2 . 6 and 6 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
Mutagenicity assays did not reveal any valsartan - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
These assays included bacterial mutagenicity tests with Salmonella ( Ames ) and E . coli ; a gene mutation test with Chinese hamster V79 cells ; a cytogenetic test with Chinese hamster ovary cells ; and a rat micronucleus test .
Valsartan had no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of male or female rats at oral doses up to 200 mg / kg / day .
This dose is about 6 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
Hydrochlorothiazide : Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella Typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1300 mcgm / mL , and in the Aspergillus Nidulans non - disjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
These doses of hydrochlorothiazide in mice and rats represent 19 and 1 . 5 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
13 . 3 Developmental Toxicity Studies Valsartan - Hydrochlorothiazide : There was no evidence of teratogenicity in mice , rats , or rabbits treated orally with valsartan at doses up to 600 , 100 and 10 mg / kg / day , respectively , in combination with hydrochlorothiazide at doses up to 188 , 31 and 3 mg / kg / day .
These non - teratogenic doses in mice , rats and rabbits , respectively , represent 9 , 3 . 5 and 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of valsartan and 38 , 13 and 2 times the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day valsartan in combination with 25 mg / day hydrochlorothiazide and a 60 - kg patient . )
Fetotoxicity was observed in association with maternal toxicity in rats and rabbits at valsartan doses of ≥ 200 and 10 mg / kg / day , respectively , in combination with hydrochlorothiazide doses of ≥ 63 and 3 mg / kg / day .
Fetotoxicity in rats was considered to be related to decreased fetal weights and included fetal variations of sternebrae , vertebrae , ribs and / or renal papillae .
Fetotoxicity in rabbits included increased numbers of late resorptions with resultant increases in total resorptions , postimplantation losses and decreased number of live fetuses .
The no observed adverse effect doses in mice , rats and rabbits for valsartan were 600 , 100 and 3 mg / kg / day , respectively , in combination with hydrochlorothiazide doses of 188 , 31 and 1 mg / kg / day .
These no adverse effect doses in mice , rats and rabbits , respectively , represent 9 , 3 and 0 . 18 times the MRHD of valsartan and 38 , 13 and 0 . 5 times the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day valsartan in combination with 25 mg / day hydrochlorothiazide and a 60 - kg patient . )
Valsartan : No teratogenic effects were observed when valsartan was administered to pregnant mice and rats at oral doses up to 600 mg / kg / day and to pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 10 mg / kg / day .
However , significant decreases in fetal weight , pup birth weight , pup survival rate , and slight delays in developmental milestones were observed in studies in which parental rats were treated with valsartan at oral , maternally toxic ( reduction in body weight gain and food consumption ) doses of 600 mg / kg / day during organogenesis or late gestation and lactation .
In rabbits , fetotoxicity ( i . e . , resorptions , litter loss , abortions , and low body weight ) associated with maternal toxicity ( mortality ) was observed at doses of 5 and 10 mg / kg / day .
The no observed adverse effect doses of 600 , 200 and 2 mg / kg / day in mice , rats and rabbits represent 9 , 6 and 0 . 1 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
Hydrochlorothiazide : Under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program , pregnant mice and rats that received hydrochlorothiazide via gavage at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively , on gestation days 6 through 15 showed no evidence of teratogenicity .
These doses of hydrochlorothiazide in mice and rats represent 608 and 405 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hypertension Valsartan - Hydrochlorothiazide : In controlled clinical trials including over 7600 patients , 4372 patients were exposed to valsartan ( 80 , 160 and 320 mg ) and concomitant hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 and 25 mg ) .
Two factorial trials compared various combinations of 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 80 / 25 mg , 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 25 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg and 320 / 25 mg with their respective components and placebo .
The combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in additive placebo - adjusted decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough of 14 - 21 / 8 - 11 mmHg at 80 / 12 . 5 mg to 320 / 25 mg , compared to 7 - 10 / 4 - 5 mmHg for valsartan 80 mg to 320 mg and 5 - 11 / 2 - 5 mmHg for hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg to 25 mg , alone .
Three other controlled trials investigated the addition of hydrochlorothiazide to patients who did not respond adequately to valsartan 80 mg to valsartan 320 mg , resulted in the additional lowering of systolic and diastolic blood pressure by approximately 4 - 12 / 2 - 5 mmHg .
The maximal antihypertensive effect was attained 4 weeks after the initiation of therapy , the first time point at which blood pressure was measured in these trials .
In long - term follow - up studies ( without placebo control ) the effect of the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide appeared to be maintained for up to two years .
The antihypertensive effect is independent of age or gender .
The overall response to the combination was similar for Black and non - Black patients .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in patients treated with the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in controlled trials .
There are no trials of the Diovan HCT combination tablet demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but the hydrochlorothiazide component and several ARBs , which are the same pharmacological class as the valsartan component , have demonstrated such benefits .
Valsartan : The antihypertensive effects of valsartan were demonstrated principally in 7 placebo - controlled , 4 - to 12 - week trials ( one in patients over 65 ) of dosages from 10 to 320 mg / day in patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures of 95 - 115 .
The studies allowed comparison of once - daily and twice - daily regimens of 160 mg / day ; comparison of peak and trough effects ; comparison ( in pooled data ) of response by gender , age , and race ; and evaluation of incremental effects of hydrochlorothiazide .
Administration of valsartan to patients with essential hypertension results in a significant reduction of sitting , supine , and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure , usually with little or no orthostatic change .
In most patients , after administration of a single oral dose , onset of antihypertensive activity occurs at approximately 2 hours , and maximum reduction of blood pressure is achieved within 6 hours .
The antihypertensive effect persists for 24 hours after dosing , but there is a decrease from peak effect at lower doses ( 40 mg ) presumably reflecting loss of inhibition of angiotensin II .
At higher doses , however ( 160 mg ) , there is little difference in peak and trough effect .
During repeated dosing , the reduction in blood pressure with any dose is substantially present within 2 weeks , and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks .
In long - term follow - up studies ( without placebo control ) the effect of valsartan appeared to be maintained for up to two years .
The antihypertensive effect is independent of age , gender or race .
The latter finding regarding race is based on pooled data and should be viewed with caution , because antihypertensive drugs that affect the renin - angiotensin system ( that is , ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II blockers ) have generally been found to be less effective in low - renin hypertensives ( frequently Blacks ) than in high - renin hypertensives ( frequently Whites ) .
In pooled , randomized , controlled trials of Diovan that included a total of 140 Blacks and 830 Whites , valsartan and an ACE - inhibitor control were generally at least as effective in Blacks as Whites .
The explanation for this difference from previous findings is unclear .
Abrupt withdrawal of valsartan has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
The 7 studies of valsartan monotherapy included over 2000 patients randomized to various doses of valsartan and about 800 patients randomized to placebo .
Doses below 80 mg were not consistently distinguished from those of placebo at trough , but doses of 80 , 160 and 320 mg produced dose - related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure , with the difference from placebo of approximately 6 - 9 / 3 - 5 mmHg at 80 - 160 mg and 9 / 6 mmHg at 320 mg .
Patients with an inadequate response to 80 mg once daily were titrated to either 160 mg once daily or 80 mg twice daily , which resulted in a comparable response in both groups .
In another 4 - week study , 1876 patients randomized to valsartan 320 mg once daily had an incremental blood pressure reduction 3 / 1 mmHg lower than did 1900 patients randomized to valsartan 160 mg once daily .
In controlled trials , the antihypertensive effect of once daily valsartan 80 mg was similar to that of once daily enalapril 20 mg or once daily lisinopril 10 mg .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in valsartan - treated patients in controlled trials .
14 . 2 Initial Therapy - Hypertension The safety and efficacy of Diovan HCT as initial therapy for patients with severe hypertension ( defined as a sitting diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg off all antihypertensive therapy ) was studied in a 6 - week multicenter , randomized , double - blind study .
Patients were randomized to either Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide 160 / 12 . 5 mg once daily ) or to valsartan ( 160 mg once daily ) and followed for blood pressure response .
Patients were force - titrated at 2 - week intervals .
Patients on combination therapy were subsequently titrated to 160 / 25 mg followed by 320 / 25 mg valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide .
Patients on monotherapy were subsequently titrated to 320 mg valsartan followed by a titration to 320 mg valsartan to maintain the blind .
The study randomized 608 patients , including 261 ( 43 % ) females , 147 ( 24 % ) Blacks , and 75 ( 12 % ) ≥ 65 years of age .
The mean blood pressure at baseline for the total population was 168 / 112 mmHg .
The mean age was 52 years .
After 4 weeks of therapy , reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were 9 / 5 mmHg greater in the group treated with Diovan HCT compared to valsartan .
Similar trends were seen when the patients were grouped according to gender , race or age .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Diovan HCT ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP ) is available as non - scored tablets containing valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 25 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg and 320 / 25 mg .
Strengths are available as follows .
80 / 12 . 5 mg Tablet - Light orange , ovaloid with slightly convex faces debossed CG on one side and HGH on the other side .
Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 4425 - 1 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 4425 - 3 160 / 12 . 5 mg Tablet - Dark red , ovaloid with slightly convex faces debossed CG on one side and HHH on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 4428 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 4428 - 2 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 4428 - 3 160 / 25 mgTablet - Brown orange , ovaloid with slightly convex faces debossed NVR on one side and HXH on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5323 - 0 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5323 - 1 320 / 12 . 5 mg Tablet - Pink , ovaloid with beveled edge , debossed NVR on one side and HIL on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5780 - 0 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5780 - 1 320 / 25 mgTablet - Yellow , ovaloid with beveled edge , debossed NVR on one side and CTI on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5607 - 0 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5607 - 1 Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30ºC ( 59 - 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for Patients Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told that use of drugs like Diovan HCT that act on the renin - angiotensin system during pregnancy can cause serious problems in the fetus and infant including : low blood pressure , poor development of skull bones , kidney failure and death .
Discuss other treatment options with female patients planning to become pregnant .
Women using Diovan HCT who become pregnant should notify their physician as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving Diovan HCT should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , Diovan HCT should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Potassium Supplements : A patient receiving Diovan HCT should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
FDA - Approved Patient Labeling PATIENT INFORMATION DIOVANHCT ( DYE ’ - o - van HCT ) ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide ) Tablets Read the Patient Information that comes with DIOVAN HCT before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition and treatment .
If you have any questions about DIOVAN HCT , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about DIOVANHCT ?
If you become pregnant , stop taking DIOVANHCT and call your doctor right away .
DIOVANHCT can harm an unborn baby causing injury and even death .
If you plan to become pregnant , talk to your doctor about other treatment options to lower your high blood pressure before taking DIOVAN HCT .
What is DIOVANHCT ?
DIOVAN HCT contains two prescription medicines : • valsartan , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) • hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , a water pill ( diuretic ) DIOVAN HCT may be used to lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) in adults - • when one medicine to lower your high blood pressure is not enough • as the first medicine to lower high blood pressure if your doctor decides you are likely to need more than one medicine .
DIOVAN HCT has not been studied in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take DIOVANHCT ?
Do not take DIOVANHCT if you : • are allergic to any of the ingredients in DIOVAN HCT .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in DIOVAN HCT .
• make less urine due to kidney problems • are allergic to medicines that contain sulfonamides .
What should I tell my doctor before taking DIOVANHCT ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN HCT ? ”
• are breast - feeding .
DIOVAN HCT passes into breast milk .
You should choose either to take DIOVAN HCT or breast - feed , but not both .
• have liver problems • have kidney problems • have or had gallstones • have Lupus Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines and DIOVAN HCT could affect each other , causing serious side effects .
Especially , tell your doctor if you take : • other medicines for high blood pressure or a heart problem • water pills ( diuretics ) • potassium supplements • a salt substitute containing potassium • antidiabetic medicines including insulin • narcotic pain medicines • sleeping pills • lithium , a medicine used in some types of depression ( Eskalith ® , Lithobid ® , Lithium Carbonate , Lithium Citrate ) • aspirin or other medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) , like ibuprofen or naproxen Ask your doctor if you are not sure if you are taking one of these medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show to your doctor and pharmacist when a new medicine is prescribed .
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you start taking any new medicine .
Your doctor or pharmacist will know what medicines are safe to take together .
How should I take DIOVANHCT ?
• Take DIOVAN HCT exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Take DIOVAN HCT once each day .
• DIOVAN HCT can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much DIOVAN HCT , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I avoid while taking DIOVAN HCT ?
You should not take DIOVAN HCT during pregnancy .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN HCT ? ”
What are the possible side effects of DIOVANHCT ?
DIOVANHCT may cause serious side effects including : • Harm to an unborn baby causing injury and even death .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN HCT ? ”
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure is most likely to happen if you : • take water pills • are on a low salt diet • get dialysis treatments • have heart problems • get sick with vomiting or diarrhea • drink alcohol Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
• Worsening liver problems .
Liver problems may get worse in people who already have liver problems and take DIOVAN HCT .
• Allergic reactions .
People with and without allergy problems or asthma who take DIOVAN HCT may get allergic reactions .
• Worsening of Lupus .
Hydrochlorothiazide , one of the medicines in DIOVAN HCT may cause Lupus to become active or worse .
• Fluid and electrolyte ( salt ) problems .
Tell your doctor about any of the following signs and symptoms of fluid and electrolyte problems : • dry mouth • thirst • lack of energy ( lethargic ) • weakness • drowsiness • restlessness • confusion • seizures • muscle pain or cramps • muscle fatigue • very low urine output • fast heartbeat • nausea and vomiting • Kidney problems .
Kidney problems may become worse in people that already have kidney disease .
Some people will have changes on blood tests for kidney function and may need a lower dose of DIOVAN HCT .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands , or unexplained weight gain .
If you have heart failure , your doctor should check your kidney function before prescribing DIOVAN HCT .
• Skin rash .
Call your doctor right away if you have an unusual skin rash .
• Eye Problems .
One of the medicines in DIOVAN HCT can cause eye problems that may lead to vision loss .
Symptoms of eye problems can happen within hours to weeks of starting DIOVAN HCT .
Tell your doctor right away if you have : • decrease in vision • eye pain Other side effects were generally mild and brief .
They generally have not caused patients to stop taking DIOVAN HCT .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of DIOVAN HCT .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store DIOVANHCT ?
• Store DIOVAN HCT tablets at room temperature between 59 oF to 86 oF ( 15 oC to 30 oC ) .
• Keep DIOVAN HCT in a closed container in a dry place .
Keep DIOVANHCT and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about DIOVANHCT Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use DIOVAN HCT for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DIOVAN HCT to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about DIOVAN HCT .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about DIOVAN HCT that is written for health professionals .
For more information about DIOVAN HCT , go to www . DIOVAN . com or call 1 - 866 - 404 - 6359 .
What are the ingredients in DIOVANHCT ?
Active ingredients : Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , iron oxides , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
What is high blood pressure ( hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
DIOVAN HCT can help your blood vessels relax and reduce the amount of water in your body so your blood pressure is lower .
Medicines that lower blood pressure lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood throughout the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
If high blood pressure is not treated , it can lead to stroke , heart attack , heart failure , kidney failure , and vision problems .
Eskalith ® and Lithobid ® are registered trademarks of Noven Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2012 - 03 / T2012 - 04 December 2011 / December 2011 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx Only Diovan HCT ® valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 160 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx Only Diovan HCT ® valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 160 mg / 12 . 5 mg per tablet Dosage : See package insert Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 160 mg / 25 mg Rx Only Diovan HCT ® valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 160 mg / 25 mg per tablet Dosage : See package insert Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 320 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx Only Diovan HCT ® valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 320 mg / 12 . 5 mg per tablet Dosage : See package insert Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 320 mg / 25 mg Rx Only Diovan HCT ® valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , USP 320 mg / 25 mg per tablet Dosage : See package insert Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
