Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octocrylene 10 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , disopropyl adipate , cyclopentasiloxane , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , titanium dioxide , alumina , simethicone , polymethyl methacrylate , phenoxyethanol , benzyl alcohol , triethanolamine , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkylacrylate crosspolymer , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , carbomer , disodium EDTA Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label TopCare ® Daily Facial Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF15 Sunscreen non - greasy and lightweight protects from UVA and UVB rays non - comedogenic ( wo n't clog pores ) fragrance - free and paba - free dermatologist tested * Compare to Cetaphil ® Daily Facial Moisturizer SPF 15 Ingredients 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC 7711 GROSS POINT ROAD , SKOKIE , IL 60077 © TOPC ELL512 QUESTIONS ?
1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 topcare @ topco . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
