Active ingredient ( per spray ) Cromolyn sodium 5 . 2 mg Purpose Nasal allergy symptom controller Uses to prevent and relieve nasal symptoms of hay fever and other nasal allergies : • runny / itchy nose • sneezing • allergic stuffy nose Warnings Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • discolored nasal discharge • sinus pain • wheezing When using this product • it may take several days of use to notice an effect .
Your best effect may not be seen for 1 to 2 weeks .
• brief stinging or sneezing may occur right after use • do not use it to treat sinus infection , asthma , or cold symptoms • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs Stop use and ask a doctor if • shortness of breath , wheezing , or chest tightness occurs • hives or swelling of the mouth or throat occurs • your symptoms worsen • you have new symptoms • your symptoms do not begin to improve within two weeks • you need to use for more than 12 weeks If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • see package insert on how to use pump • parent or care provider must supervise the use of this product by young children • adults and children 2 years and older : • spray once into each nostril .
Repeat 3 - 4 times a day ( every 4 - 6 hours ) .
If needed , may be used up to 6 times a day .
• use every day while in contact with the cause of your allergies ( pollen , molds , pets , and dust ) • to prevent nasal allergy symptoms , use before contact with the cause of your allergies .
For best results , start using up to one week before contact .
• if desired , you can use this product with other medicines , including other allergy medicines .
• Children under 2 years : Do not use unless directed by a doctor .
Other information • store between 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) • protect from light • keep carton and package insert .
They contain important instructions .
Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , edetate disodium , purified water Questions ?
call toll free 1 - 800 - 323 - 0000 .
Before using any medication read all label directions .
Keep carton and packaging insert .
They contain important information .
Cromolyn Sodium Nasal Solution is convenient and easy to administer using the metered spray pump .
See package insert for spray pump directions .
USE ONLY IF BODY SEAL IMPRINTED WITH " Protective Seal " AND YELLOW IS INTACT .
CVS Quality MONEY BACK GURANTEE Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy Inc . , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2005 CVS / pharmacy * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Company , owner of the registered trademark NasalCrom ® .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] CVS pharmacy ® Compare to the active ingredient in Nasalcrom ® CROMOLYN SODIUM NASAL SOLUTION USP NASAL SPRAY NASAL ALLERGY SYMPTOM CONTROLLER Prevents and Relieves Nasal Allergy Symptoms : runny / itchy nose sneezing allergic stuffy nose Without Drowsiness Full Prescription Strength Safe For Ages 2 Years & Older CVS PHARAMACIST RECOMMENDED 200 Metered Sprays Each spray delivers 5 . 2 mg cromolyn sodium 0 . 88 FL OZ ( 26 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
