Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • relieves itching , scaling , cracking , burning and discomfort associated with those conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) • irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product For athlete ' s foot : • use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
• pay special attention to the spaces between the toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes • change shoes and socks at least once daily For ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other information • store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • lot number and expiration date : see crimp of tube or see box • to open : unscrew cap , use pointed end on cap to puncture seal You may report serious side effects to : 130 Vintage Drive , Huntsville , AL 35811 .
Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , mineral oil , peglicol 5 oleate , pegoxol 7 stearate , purified water Made in the USA for Qualitest Pharmaceuticals Huntsville , AL 35811 Rev . 10 / 09 R2 8280719 7805 Repackaged by Rebel Distributors Corp .
Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
