FOR TOPICAL ORAL ADMINISTRATION DESCRIPTION Each clotrimazole lozenge contains 10 mg clotrimazole [ 1 - ( o - chloro - α , α - diphenylbenzyl ) imidazole ] , a synthetic antifungal agent , for topical use in the mouth .
Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Formula : C22H17ClN2 The lozenge dosage form is a large , slowly dissolving tablet ( troche ) containing 10 mg of clotrimazole dispersed in dextrose , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clotrimazole is a broad - spectrum antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of pathogenic yeasts by altering the permeability of cell membranes .
The action of clotrimazole is fungistatic at concentrations of drug up to 20 mcg / mL and may be fungicidal in vitro against Candida albicans and other species of the genus Candida at higher concentrations .
No single - step or multiple - step resistance to clotrimazole has developed during successive passages of Candida albicans in the laboratory ; however , individual organism tolerance has been observed during successive passages in the laboratory .
Such in vitro tolerance has resolved once the organism has been removed from the antifungal environment .
After oral administration of a 10 mg clotrimazole lozenge to healthy volunteers , concentrations sufficient to inhibit most species of Candida persist in saliva for up to three hours following the approximately 30 minutes needed for a lozenge to dissolve .
The long term persistence of drug in saliva appears to be related to the slow release of clotrimazole from the oral mucosa to which the drug is apparently bound .
Repetitive dosing at three hour intervals maintains salivary levels above the minimum inhibitory concentrations of most strains of Candida ; however , the relationship between in vitro susceptibility of pathogenic fungi to clotrimazole and prophylaxis or cure of infections in humans has not been established .
In another study , the mean serum concentrations were 4 . 98 ± 3 . 7 and 3 . 23 ± 1 . 4 nanograms / mL of clotrimazole at 30 and 60 minutes , respectively , after administration as a lozenge .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clotrimazole lozenges are indicated for the local treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis .
The diagnoses should be confirmed by a KOH smear and / or culture prior to treatment .
Clotrimazole lozenges are also indicated prophylactically to reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis in patients immunocompromised by conditions that include chemotherapy , radiotherapy , or steroid therapy utilized in the treatment of leukemia , solid tumors , or renal transplantation .
There are no data from adequate and well - controlled trials to establish the safety and efficacy of this product for prophylactic use in patients immunocompromised by etiologies other than those listed in the previous sentence .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clotrimazole lozenges are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any of its components .
WARNING Clotrimazole lozenges are not indicated for the treatment of systemic mycoses including systemic candidiasis .
PRECAUTIONS Abnormal liver function tests have been reported in patients treated with clotrimazole lozenges ; elevated SGOT levels were reported in about 15 % of patients in the clinical trials .
In most cases the elevations were minimal and it was often impossible to distinguish effects of clotrimazole from those of other therapy and the underlying disease ( malignancy in most cases ) .
Periodic assessment of hepatic function is advisable particularly in patients with pre - existing hepatic impairment .
Since patients must be instructed to allow each lozenge to dissolve slowly in the mouth in order to achieve maximum effect of the medication , they must be of such an age and physical and / or mental condition to comprehend such instructions .
Carcinogenesis : An 18 month dosing study with clotrimazole in rats has not revealed any carcinogenic effect .
Usage in Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Clotrimazole has been shown to be embryotoxic in rats and mice when given in doses 100 times the adult human dose ( in mg / kg ) , possibly secondary to maternal toxicity .
The drug was not teratogenic in mice , rabbits , and rats when given in doses up to 200 , 180 , and 100 times the human dose .
Clotrimazole given orally to mice from nine weeks before mating through weaning at a dose 120 times the human dose was associated with impairment of mating , decreased number of viable young , and decreased survival to weaning .
No effects were observed at 60 times the human dose .
When the drug was given to rats during a similar time period at 50 times the human dose , there was a slight decrease in the number of pups per litter and decreased pup viability .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Clotrimazole lozenges should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness of clotrimazole in children below the age of 3 years have not been established ; therefore , its use in such patients is not recommended .
The safety and efficacy of the prophylactic use of clotrimazole lozenges in children have not been established .
GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of clotrimazole did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Abnormal liver function tests have been reported in patients treated with clotrimazole lozenges ; elevated SGOT levels were reported in about 15 % of patients in the clinical trials ( See Precautions section ) .
Nausea , vomiting , unpleasant mouth sensations and pruritus have also been reported with the use of the lozenge .
OVERDOSAGE No data available .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE No data available .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clotrimazole lozenges must be slowly dissolved in the mouth .
The recommended dose is one lozenge five times a day for fourteen consecutive days .
Only limited data are available on the safety and effectiveness of the clotrimazole lozenge after prolonged administration ; therefore , therapy should be limited to short term use , if possible .
For prophylaxis to reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis in patients immunocompromised by conditions that include chemotherapy , radiotherapy , or steroid therapy utilized in the treatment of leukemia , solid tumors , or renal transplantation , the recommended dose is one lozenge three times daily for the duration of chemotherapy or until steroids are reduced to maintenance levels .
HOW SUPPLIED Clotrimazole lozenges , 10 mg , white discoid , uncoated tablets , debossed with " PAD " over " 0107 " on one side and plain on the other , are supplied as follows : Strength NDC Code Lozenge Identification Bottles of 70 : 10 mg 0574 - 0107 - 70 PAD 0107 Bottles of 140 : 10 mg 0574 - 0107 - 14 PAD 0107 Boxes of 70 foil packs : 10 mg 0574 - 0107 - 77 PAD 0107 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Avoid freezing .
Rx Only Manufactured By Perrigo ® Minneapolis , MN 55427 2200403 ( 03 - 12 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 0574 - 0107 - 70 Clotrimazole Lozenge ( Clotrimazole Troche ) 10 mg Unit Dose For institutional use only 70 Foiled Lozenges [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
