Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief or itching associated with minor skin irritation , inflammation and rashes due to : eczema insect bites poison ivy , poison oak , or poison sumac soaps detergents jewelry seborrheic dermatitis psoriasis external genital and anal itching Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
WarningsFor external use only .
Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor for external genital itching or if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor for external anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly .
Do not put this product in rectum by using fingers or any mechanical devise for application .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clean up and then occur again within a few days .
Stop use and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone products unless you have consulted a doctor .
Do not exceed recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor or a pharmacist before use if you are using any other hydrocortisone product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age Do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching adults : when practical cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
children under 12 years of age with external anal itching , consult a doctor .
Other Information store at room temperature see end of carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , Cetyl Alcohol , PEG - 15 Glyceryl Stearate , Glyceryl Stearate , Isopropyl Myristate , Squalane , Stearic Acid , BHT , Cholesterol , Myristoyl / Palmitoyl Oxostearamide / Arachamide MEA , Methylparaben , Propylparaben Questions ?
Call 1 - 855 - ATOPALM US Patent # US 6221371B1 Distributed by : NeoPharm Co . , Ltd . , 80 Wood Rd . , # 212 Camarillo , CA 93010 Made in Korea 75712 LOT and EXP .
Maximum Strength plus US Patented Technology 1 % Hydrocortisone ATOPALM TM MOISTURIZING HYDROCORTISONE CREAM WITH US PATENTED M L E TECHNOLOGY Relieves Itching and Redness Fast !
Provides Temporary Relief and Visibly Healthier Looking Skin Maximum Strength medicine without a prescription for temporary relief of your worst itch symptoms .
ATOPALM TM Relieves itches due to : Dry Skin , Psoriasis , Seborrheic Dermatitis , Rashes Net Wt .
1 oz / 28 . 3 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
