1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ( tiotropium bromide inhalation powder ) is indicated for the long - term , once - daily , maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , including chronic bronchitis and emphysema .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is indicated to reduce exacerbations in COPD patients .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is an anticholinergic indicated for the long - term , once - daily , maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , and for reducing COPD exacerbations ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only .
Do not swallow SPIRIVA capsules , as the intended effects on the lungs will not be obtained .
The contents of the SPIRIVA capsules should only be used with the HANDIHALER device [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
The recommended dose of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is two inhalations of the powder contents of one SPIRIVA capsule , once - daily , with the HANDIHALER device [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Do not take more than one dose in 24 hours .
For administration of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , a SPIRIVA capsule is placed into the center chamber of the HANDIHALER device .
The SPIRIVA capsule is pierced by pressing and releasing the green piercing button on the side of the HANDIHALER device .
The tiotropium formulation is dispersed into the air stream when the patient inhales through the mouthpiece [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is required for geriatric , hepatically - impaired , or renally - impaired patients .
However , patients with moderate to severe renal impairment given SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be monitored closely for anticholinergic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• For oral inhalation only .
DO NOT swallow SPIRIVA capsules .
Only use SPIRIVA capsules with the HANDIHALER device ( 2 ) • Two inhalations of the powder contents of a single SPIRIVA capsule ( 18 mcg ) once daily ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Inhalation Powder : SPIRIVA HANDIHALER consists of SPIRIVA capsules containing tiotropium powder for oral inhalation and a HANDIHALER device .
SPIRIVA capsules contain 18 mcg of tiotropium in a light green , hard gelatin capsule with " TI 01 " printed on one side and Boehringer Ingelheim company logo on the other side .
The HANDIHALER device is only intended for use with the SPIRIVA capsules .
Inhalation powder : SPIRIVA capsules contain 18 mcg tiotropium powder for use with HANDIHALER device ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to tiotropium , ipratropium , or any components of this product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
In clinical trials and postmarketing experience with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , immediate hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema ( including swelling of the lips , tongue , or throat ) , itching , or rash have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to tiotropium , ipratropium , or any components of SPIRIVA capsules ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Not for acute use : Not a rescue medication ( 5 . 1 ) • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions : Discontinue SPIRIVA HANDIHALER at once and consider alternatives if immediate hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema , urticaria , rash , bronchospasm , or anaphylaxis , occur .
Use with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins .
( 5 . 2 ) • Paradoxical bronchospasm : Discontinue SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and consider other treatments if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs ( 5 . 3 ) • Worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma may occur .
Use with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma and instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if this occurs .
( 5 . 4 ) • Worsening of urinary retention may occur .
Use with caution in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction and instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if this occurs .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Not for Acute Use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is intended as a once - daily maintenance treatment for COPD and should not be used for relief of acute symptoms , i . e . , as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm .
5 . 2 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions , including urticaria , angioedema ( including swelling of the lips , tongue , or throat ) , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , or itching , may occur after administration of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
If such a reaction occurs , therapy with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be stopped at once and alternative treatments should be considered .
Given the similar structural formula of atropine to tiotropium , patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to atropine or its derivatives should be closely monitored for similar hypersensitivity reactions to SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
In addition , SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be used with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins .
5 . 3 Paradoxical Bronchospasm Inhaled medicines , including SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , may cause paradoxical bronchospasm .
If this occurs , it should be treated immediately with an inhaled short - acting beta2 - agonist such as albuterol .
Treatment with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be stopped and other treatments considered .
5 . 4 Worsening of Narrow - Angle Glaucoma SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be used with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma .
Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
5 . 5 Worsening of Urinary Retention SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be used with caution in patients with urinary retention .
Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , painful urination ) , especially in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
5 . 6 Renal Impairment As a predominantly renally excreted drug , patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of < 60 mL / min ) treated with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be monitored closely for anticholinergic side effects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Worsening of urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % incidence in the 1 - year placebo - controlled trials ) were upper respiratory tract infection , dry mouth , sinusitis , pharyngitis , non - specific chest pain , urinary tract infection , dyspepsia , and rhinitis ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the incidence of adverse reactions observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the incidences in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the incidences observed in practice .
6 - Month to 1 - Year Trials The data described below reflect exposure to SPIRIVA HANDIHALER in 2663 patients .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER was studied in two 1 - year placebo - controlled trials , two 1 - year active - controlled trials , and two 6 - month placebo - controlled trials in patients with COPD .
In these trials , 1308 patients were treated with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER at the recommended dose of 18 mcg once a day .
The population had an age ranging from 39 to 87 years with 65 % to 85 % males , 95 % Caucasian , and had COPD with a mean pre - bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV1 ) percent predicted of 39 % to 43 % .
Patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , or symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy or bladder outlet obstruction were excluded from these trials .
An additional 6 - month trial conducted in a Veteran ' s Affairs setting is not included in this safety database because only serious adverse events were collected .
The most commonly reported adverse drug reaction was dry mouth .
Dry mouth was usually mild and often resolved during continued treatment .
Other reactions reported in individual patients and consistent with possible anticholinergic effects included constipation , tachycardia , blurred vision , glaucoma ( new onset or worsening ) , dysuria , and urinary retention .
Four multicenter , 1 - year , placebo - controlled and active - controlled trials evaluated SPIRIVA HANDIHALER in patients with COPD .
Table 1 shows all adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of ≥ 3 % in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group in the 1 - year placebo - controlled trials where the rates in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group exceeded placebo by ≥ 1 % .
The frequency of corresponding reactions in the ipratropium - controlled trials is included for comparison .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions ( % Patients ) in One - Year COPD Clinical TrialsBody System ( Event ) Placebo - Controlled Trials Ipratropium - Controlled Trials SPIRIVA ( n = 550 ) Placebo ( n = 371 ) SPIRIVA ( n = 356 ) Ipratropium ( n = 179 ) Body as a Whole Chest Pain ( non - specific ) 7 5 5 2 Edema , Dependent 5 4 3 5 Gastrointestinal System Disorders Dry Mouth 16 3 12 6 Dyspepsia 6 5 1 1 Abdominal Pain 5 3 6 6 Constipation 4 2 1 1 Vomiting 4 2 1 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 4 3 4 3 Resistance Mechanism Disorders Infection 4 3 1 3 Moniliasis 4 2 3 2 Respiratory System ( Upper ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 41 37 43 35 Sinusitis 11 9 3 2 Pharyngitis 9 7 7 3 Rhinitis 6 5 3 2 Epistaxis 4 2 1 1 Skin and Appendage Disorders Rash 4 2 2 2 Urinary System Urinary Tract Infection 7 5 4 2 Arthritis , coughing , and influenza - like symptoms occurred at a rate of ≥ 3 % in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER treatment group , but were < 1 % in excess of the placebo group .
Other reactions that occurred in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group at a frequency of 1 % to 3 % in the placebo - controlled trials where the rates exceeded that in the placebo group include : Body as a Whole : allergic reaction , leg pain ; Central and Peripheral Nervous System : dysphonia , paresthesia ; Gastrointestinal System Disorders : gastrointestinal disorder not otherwise specified ( NOS ) , gastroesophageal reflux , stomatitis ( including ulcerative stomatitis ) ; Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia ; Musculoskeletal System Disorders : skeletal pain ; Cardiac Events : angina pectoris ( including aggravated angina pectoris ) ; Psychiatric Disorder : depression ; Infections : herpes zoster ; Respiratory System Disorder ( Upper ) : laryngitis ; Vision Disorder : cataract .
In addition , among the adverse reactions observed in the clinical trials with an incidence of < 1 % were atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia , angioedema , and urinary retention .
In the 1 - year trials , the incidence of dry mouth , constipation , and urinary tract infection increased with age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Two multicenter , 6 - month , controlled studies evaluated SPIRIVA HANDIHALER in patients with COPD .
The adverse reactions and the incidence rates were similar to those seen in the 1 - year controlled trials .
4 - Year Trial The data described below reflect exposure to SPIRIVA HANDIHALER in 5992 COPD patients in a 4 - year placebo - controlled trial .
In this trial , 2986 patients were treated with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER at the recommended dose of 18 mcg once a day .
The population had an age range from 40 to 88 years , was 75 % male , 90 % Caucasian , and had COPD with a mean pre - bronchodilator FEV1 percent predicted of 40 % .
Patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , or symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy or bladder outlet obstruction were excluded from these trials .
When the adverse reactions were analyzed with a frequency of ≥ 3 % in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group where the rates in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group exceeded placebo by ≥ 1 % , adverse reactions included ( SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , placebo ) : pharyngitis ( 12 . 5 % , 10 . 8 % ) , sinusitis ( 6 . 5 % , 5 . 3 % ) , headache ( 5 . 7 % , 4 . 5 % ) , constipation ( 5 . 1 % , 3 . 7 % ) , dry mouth ( 5 . 1 % , 2 . 7 % ) , depression ( 4 . 4 % , 3 . 3 % ) , insomnia ( 4 . 4 % , 3 . 0 % ) , and arthralgia ( 4 . 2 % , 3 . 1 % ) .
Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions not previously listed that were reported more frequently in COPD patients treated with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER than placebo include : dehydration , skin ulcer , stomatitis , gingivitis , oropharyngeal candidiasis , dry skin , skin infection , and joint swelling .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Adverse reactions have been identified during worldwide post - approval use of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are : application site irritation ( glossitis , mouth ulceration , and pharyngolaryngeal pain ) , dizziness , dysphagia , hoarseness , intestinal obstruction including ileus paralytic , intraocular pressure increased , oral candidiasis , palpitations , pruritus , tachycardia , throat irritation , and urticaria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticholinergics : May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Avoid administration of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER with other anticholinergic - containing drugs .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Sympathomimetics , Methylxanthines , Steroids SPIRIVA HANDIHALER has been used concomitantly with short - acting and long - acting sympathomimetic ( beta - agonists ) bronchodilators , methylxanthines , and oral and inhaled steroids without increases in adverse reactions .
7 . 2 Anticholinergics There is potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Therefore , avoid coadministration of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER with other anticholinergic - containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Patients with moderate to severe renal impairment should be monitored closely for potential anticholinergic side effects ( 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited human data with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse pregnancy - related outcomes .
Based on animal reproduction studies , no structural abnormalities were observed when tiotropium was administered by inhalation to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses 790 and 8 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) .
Increased post - implantation loss was observed in rats and rabbits administered tiotropium at maternally toxic doses 430 times and 40 times the MRHDID , respectively [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In 2 separate embryo - fetal development studies , pregnant rats and rabbits received tiotropium during the period of organogenesis at doses up to approximately 790 and 8 times the MRHDID , respectively ( on a mcg / m2 basis at inhalation doses of 1471 and 7 mcg / kg / day in rats and rabbits , respectively ) .
No evidence of structural abnormalities was observed in rats or rabbits .
However , in rats , tiotropium caused fetal resorption , litter loss , decreases in the number of live pups at birth and the mean pup weights , and a delay in pup sexual maturation at tiotropium doses of approximately 40 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis at a maternal inhalation dose of 78 mcg / kg / day ) .
In rabbits , tiotropium caused an increase in post - implantation loss at a tiotropium dose of approximately 430 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis at a maternal inhalation dose of 400 mcg / kg / day ) .
Such effects were not observed at approximately 5 and 95 times the MRHDID , respectively ( on a mcg / m2 basis at inhalation doses of 9 and 88 mcg / kg / day in rats and rabbits , respectively ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tiotropium in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Tiotropium is present in milk of lactating rats ; however , due to species - specific differences in lactation physiology , the clinical relevance of these data are not clear [ see Data ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from SPIRIVA HANDIHALER or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data The distribution of tiotropium bromide into milk was investigated after a single intravenous administration of 10 mg / kg to lactating rats .
Tiotropium and / or its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations above those in plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is not indicated for use in children .
The safety and effectiveness of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Based on available data , no adjustment of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER dosage in geriatric patients is warranted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Of the total number of patients who received SPIRIVA HANDIHALER in the 1 - year clinical trials , 426 were < 65 years , 375 were 65 to 74 years , and 105 were ≥ 75 years of age .
Within each age subgroup , there were no differences between the proportion of patients with adverse events in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and the comparator groups for most events .
Dry mouth increased with age in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group ( differences from placebo were 9 . 0 % , 17 . 1 % , and 16 . 2 % in the aforementioned age subgroups ) .
A higher frequency of constipation and urinary tract infections with increasing age was observed in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group in the placebo - controlled studies .
The differences from placebo for constipation were 0 % , 1 . 8 % , and 7 . 8 % for each of the age groups .
The differences from placebo for urinary tract infections were – 0 . 6 % , 4 . 6 % , and 4 . 5 % .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed among these groups .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of < 60 mL / min ) treated with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER should be monitored closely for anticholinergic side effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tiotropium were not studied .
10 OVERDOSAGE High doses of tiotropium may lead to anticholinergic signs and symptoms .
However , there were no systemic anticholinergic adverse effects following a single inhaled dose of up to 282 mcg tiotropium in 6 healthy volunteers .
In a study of 12 healthy volunteers , bilateral conjunctivitis and dry mouth were seen following repeated once - daily inhalation of 141 mcg of tiotropium .
Treatment of overdosage consists of discontinuation of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER together with institution of appropriate symptomatic and / or supportive therapy .
Accidental Ingestion Acute intoxication by inadvertent oral ingestion of SPIRIVA capsules is unlikely since it is not well - absorbed systemically .
A case of overdose has been reported from postmarketing experience .
A female patient was reported to have inhaled 30 capsules over a 2 . 5 day period , and developed altered mental status , tremors , abdominal pain , and severe constipation .
The patient was hospitalized , SPIRIVA HANDIHALER was discontinued , and the constipation was treated with an enema .
The patient recovered and was discharged on the same day .
11 DESCRIPTION SPIRIVA HANDIHALER consists of SPIRIVA capsules and a HANDIHALER device .
Each light green , hard gelatin SPIRIVA capsule contains a dry powder consisting of 18 mcg tiotropium ( equivalent to 22 . 5 mcg tiotropium bromide monohydrate ) blended with lactose monohydrate ( which may contain milk proteins ) .
The contents of SPIRIVA capsules are intended for oral inhalation only , and are intended for administration only with the HANDIHALER device .
The active component of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is tiotropium .
The drug substance , tiotropium bromide monohydrate , is an anticholinergic with specificity for muscarinic receptors .
It is chemically described as ( 1α , 2β , 4β , 5α , 7β ) - 7 - [ ( Hydroxydi - 2 - thienylacetyl ) oxy ] - 9 , 9 - dimethyl - 3 - oxa - 9 - azoniatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . 02 , 4 ] nonane bromide monohydrate .
It is a synthetic , non - chiral , quaternary ammonium compound .
Tiotropium bromide is a white or yellowish white powder .
It is sparingly soluble in water and soluble in methanol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tiotropium bromide ( monohydrate ) has a molecular mass of 490 . 4 and a molecular formula of C19H22NO4S2Br ∙ H2O .
The HANDIHALER device is an inhalation device used to inhale the dry powder contained in the SPIRIVA capsule .
The dry powder is delivered from the HANDIHALER device at flow rates as low as 20 L / min .
Under standardized in vitro testing , the HANDIHALER device delivers a mean of 10 . 4 mcg tiotropium when tested at a flow rate of 39 L / min for 3 . 1 seconds ( 2 L total ) .
In a study of 26 adult patients with COPD and severely compromised lung function [ mean FEV1 1 . 02 L ( range 0 . 45 to 2 . 24 L ) ; 37 . 6 % of predicted ( range 16 % to 65 % ) ] , the median peak inspiratory flow ( PIF ) through the HANDIHALER device was 30 . 0 L / min ( range 20 . 4 to 45 . 6 L / min ) .
The amount of drug delivered to the lungs will vary depending on patient factors such as inspiratory flow and peak inspiratory flow through the HANDIHALER device , which may vary from patient to patient , and may vary with the exposure time of the SPIRIVA capsule outside the blister pack .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tiotropium is a long - acting , antimuscarinic agent , which is often referred to as an anticholinergic .
It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors , M1 to M5 .
In the airways , it exhibits pharmacological effects through inhibition of M3 - receptors at the smooth muscle leading to bronchodilation .
The competitive and reversible nature of antagonism was shown with human and animal origin receptors and isolated organ preparations .
In preclinical in vitro as well as in vivo studies , prevention of methacholine - induced bronchoconstriction effects was dose - dependent and lasted longer than 24 hours .
The bronchodilation following inhalation of tiotropium is predominantly a site - specific effect .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a multicenter , randomized , double - blind trial using tiotropium dry powder for inhalation that enrolled 198 patients with COPD , the number of subjects with changes from baseline - corrected QT interval of 30 to 60 msec was higher in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group as compared with placebo .
This difference was apparent using both the Bazett ( QTcB ) [ 20 ( 20 % ) patients vs . 12 ( 12 % ) patients ] and Fredericia ( QTcF ) [ 16 ( 16 % ) patients vs . 1 ( 1 % ) patient ] corrections of QT for heart rate .
No patients in either group had either QTcB or QTcF of > 500 msec .
Other clinical studies with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER did not detect an effect of the drug on QTc intervals .
The effect of tiotropium dry powder for inhalation on QT interval was also evaluated in a randomized , placebo - and positive - controlled crossover study in 53 healthy volunteers .
Subjects received tiotropium dry powder for inhalation 18 mcg , 54 mcg ( 3 times the recommended dose ) , or placebo for 12 days .
ECG assessments were performed at baseline and throughout the dosing interval following the first and last dose of study medication .
Relative to placebo , the maximum mean change from baseline in study - specific QTc interval was 3 . 2 msec and 0 . 8 msec for tiotropium dry powder for inhalation 18 mcg and 54 mcg , respectively .
No subject showed a new onset of QTc > 500 msec or QTc changes from baseline of ≥ 60 msec .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Tiotropium is administered by dry powder inhalation .
Some of the pharmacokinetic data described below were obtained with higher doses than recommended for therapy .
A dedicated pharmacokinetic study in patients with COPD evaluating once - daily tiotropium delivered from the RESPIMAT inhaler ( 5 mcg ) and as inhalation powder ( 18 mcg ) from the HANDIHALER device resulted in a similar systemic exposure between the two products .
Absorption Following dry powder inhalation by young healthy volunteers , the absolute bioavailability of 19 . 5 % suggests that the fraction reaching the lung is highly bioavailable .
Oral solutions of tiotropium have an absolute bioavailability of 2 - 3 % .
Food is not expected to influence the absorption of tiotropium .
Maximum tiotropium plasma concentrations were observed 7 minutes after inhalation .
Distribution Tiotropium is 72 % bound to plasma protein and had a volume of distribution of 32 L / kg after intravenous administration to young healthy volunteers .
Local concentrations in the lung are not known , but the mode of administration suggests substantially higher concentrations in the lung .
Studies in rats have shown that tiotropium does not readily penetrate the blood - brain barrier .
Elimination The terminal half - life of tiotropium in COPD patients following once daily inhalation of 5 mcg tiotropium was approximately 25 hours .
Total clearance was 880 mL / min after intravenous administration in young healthy volunteers .
After chronic once - daily dry powder inhalation by COPD patients , pharmacokinetic steady state was reached by day 7 with no accumulation thereafter .
Metabolism The extent of metabolism is small .
This is evident from a urinary excretion of 74 % of unchanged substance after an intravenous dose to young healthy volunteers .
Tiotropium , an ester , is nonenzymatically cleaved to the alcohol N - methylscopine and dithienylglycolic acid , neither of which binds to muscarinic receptors .
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes and human hepatocytes suggest that a fraction of the administered dose ( 74 % of an intravenous dose is excreted unchanged in the urine , leaving 25 % for metabolism ) is metabolized by cytochrome P450 - dependent oxidation and subsequent glutathione conjugation to a variety of Phase II metabolites .
This enzymatic pathway can be inhibited by CYP450 2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors , such as quinidine , ketoconazole , and gestodene .
Thus , CYP450 2D6 and 3A4 are involved in the metabolic pathway that is responsible for the elimination of a small part of the administered dose .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes showed that tiotropium in supra - therapeutic concentrations did not inhibit CYP450 1A1 , 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , or 3A4 .
Excretion Intravenously administered tiotropium bromide is mainly excreted unchanged in urine ( 74 % ) .
After dry powder inhalation to COPD patients at steady state , urinary excretion was 7 % ( 1 . 3 mcg ) of the unchanged dose over 24 hours .
The renal clearance of tiotropium exceeds the creatinine clearance , indicating secretion into the urine .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients As expected for all predominantly renally excreted drugs , advancing age was associated with a decrease of tiotropium renal clearance ( 365 mL / min in COPD patients < 65 years to 271 mL / min in COPD patients ≥ 65 years ) .
This did not result in a corresponding increase in AUC0 - 6 , ss and Cmax , ss values following administration via HANDIHALER device .
Renal Impairment Following 4 - week SPIRIVA HANDIHALER or SPIRIVA RESPIMAT once daily dosing in patients with COPD , mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 60 - < 90 mL / min ) resulted in 6 - 23 % higher AUC0 - 6 , ss and 6 - 17 % higher Cmax , ss values ; moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 - < 60 mL / min ) resulted in 54 - 57 % higher AUC0 - 6 , ss and 15 - 31 % higher Cmax , ss values compared to COPD patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance ≥ 90 mL / min ) .
There is insufficient data for tiotropium exposure in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) following inhalation of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER or SPIRIVA RESPIMAT .
However AUC0 - 4 and Cmax were 94 % and 52 % higher , respectively , in patients with severe renal impairment following intravenous infusion of tiotropium bromide .
Hepatic Impairment The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tiotropium were not studied .
Drug Interactions An interaction study with tiotropium ( 14 . 4 mcg intravenous infusion over 15 minutes ) and cimetidine 400 mg three times daily or ranitidine 300 mg once daily was conducted .
Concomitant administration of cimetidine with tiotropium resulted in a 20 % increase in the AUC0 - 4 h , a 28 % decrease in the renal clearance of tiotropium and no significant change in the Cmax and amount excreted in urine over 96 hours .
Co - administration of tiotropium with ranitidine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tiotropium .
Common concomitant medications ( long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonists ( LABA ) , inhaled corticosteroids ( ICS ) ) used by patients with COPD were not found to alter the exposure to tiotropium .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of tumorigenicity was observed in a 104 - week inhalation study in rats at tiotropium doses up to 59 mcg / kg / day , in an 83 - week inhalation study in female mice at doses up to 145 mcg / kg / day , and in a 101 - week inhalation study in male mice at doses up to 2 mcg / kg / day .
These doses correspond to approximately 30 , 40 , and 0 . 5 times the recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) on a mcg / m2 basis , respectively .
Tiotropium bromide demonstrated no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity in the following assays : the bacterial gene mutation assay , the V79 Chinese hamster cell mutagenesis assay , the chromosomal aberration assays in human lymphocytes in vitro and mouse micronucleus formation in vivo , and the unscheduled DNA synthesis in primary rat hepatocytes in vitro assay .
In rats , decreases in the number of corpora lutea and the percentage of implants were noted at inhalation tiotropium doses of 78 mcg / kg / day or greater ( approximately 40 times the MRHDID on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
No such effects were observed at 9 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the MRHDID on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
The fertility index , however , was not affected at inhalation doses up to 1689 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 910 times the MRHDID on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ( tiotropium bromide inhalation powder ) clinical development program consisted of six Phase 3 studies in 2663 patients with COPD ( 1308 receiving SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ) : two 1 - year , placebo - controlled studies , two 6 - month , placebo - controlled studies and two 1 - year , ipratropium - controlled studies .
These studies enrolled patients who had a clinical diagnosis of COPD , were 40 years of age or older , had a history of smoking greater than 10 pack - years , had a forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV1 ) less than or equal to 60 % or 65 % of predicted , and a ratio of FEV1 / FVC of less than or equal to 0 . 7 .
In these studies , SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , administered once - daily in the morning , provided improvement in lung function ( FEV1 ) , with peak effect occurring within 3 hours following the first dose .
Two additional trials evaluated exacerbations : a 6 - month , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter clinical trial of 1829 COPD patients in a US Veterans Affairs setting and a 4 - year , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter , clinical trial of 5992 COPD patients .
Long - term effects on lung function and other outcomes , were also evaluated in the 4 - year multicenter trial .
6 - Month to 1 - Year Effects on Lung Function In the 1 - year , placebo - controlled trials , the mean improvement in FEV1 at 30 minutes was 0 . 13 liters ( 13 % ) with a peak improvement of 0 . 24 liters ( 24 % ) relative to baseline after the first dose ( Day 1 ) .
Further improvements in FEV1 and forced vital capacity ( FVC ) were observed with pharmacodynamic steady state reached by Day 8 with once - daily treatment .
The mean peak improvement in FEV1 , relative to baseline , was 0 . 28 to 0 . 31 liters ( 28 % to 31 % ) , after 1 week ( Day 8 ) of once - daily treatment .
Improvement of lung function was maintained for 24 hours after a single dose and consistently maintained over the 1 - year treatment period with no evidence of tolerance .
In the two 6 - month , placebo - controlled trials , serial spirometric evaluations were performed throughout daytime hours in Trial A ( 12 hours ) and limited to 3 hours in Trial B .
The serial FEV1 values over 12 hours ( Trial A ) are displayed in Figure 1 .
These trials further support the improvement in pulmonary function ( FEV1 ) with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , which persisted over the spirometric observational period .
Effectiveness was maintained for 24 hours after administration over the 6 - month treatment period .
Figure 1 Mean FEV1 Over Time ( prior to and after administration of study drug ) on Days 1 and 169 for Trial A ( a Six - Month Placebo - Controlled Study ) [ 1 ] Day 1 Day 169 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Means adjusted for center , treatment , and baseline effect .
On Day 169 , a total of 183 and 149 patients in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and placebo groups , respectively , completed the trial .
The data for the remaining patients were imputed using the last observation or least favorable observation carried forward .
Results of each of the 1 - year ipratropium - controlled trials were similar to the results of the 1 - year placebo - controlled trials .
The results of one of these trials are shown in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 Mean FEV1 Over Time ( 0 to 6 hours post - dose ) on Days 1 and 92 , Respectively for One of the Two Ipratropium - Controlled Studies [ 1 ] Day 1 Day 92 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Means adjusted for center , treatment , and baseline effect .
On Day 92 ( primary endpoint ) , a total of 151 and 69 patients in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and ipratropium groups , respectively , completed through 3 months of observation .
The data for the remaining patients were imputed using the last observation or least favorable observation carried forward .
A randomized , placebo - controlled clinical study in 105 patients with COPD demonstrated that bronchodilation was maintained throughout the 24 - hour dosing interval in comparison to placebo , regardless of whether SPIRIVA HANDIHALER was administered in the morning or in the evening .
Throughout each week of the 1 - year treatment period in the two placebo - controlled trials , patients taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER had a reduced requirement for the use of rescue short - acting beta2 - agonists .
Reduction in the use of rescue short - acting beta2 - agonists , as compared to placebo , was demonstrated in one of the two 6 - month studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 - Year Effects on Lung Function A 4 - year , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter clinical trial involving 5992 COPD patients was conducted to evaluate the long - term effects of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER on disease progression ( rate of decline in FEV1 ) .
Patients were permitted to use all respiratory medications ( including short - acting and long - acting beta - agonists , inhaled and systemic steroids , and theophyllines ) other than inhaled anticholinergics .
The patients were 40 to 88 years of age , 75 % male , and 90 % Caucasian with a diagnosis of COPD and a mean pre - bronchodilator FEV1 of 39 % predicted ( range = 9 % to 76 % ) at study entry .
There was no difference between the groups in either of the co - primary efficacy endpoints , yearly rate of decline in pre - and post - bronchodilator FEV1 , as demonstrated by similar slopes of FEV1 decline over time ( Figure 3 ) .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER maintained improvements in trough ( pre - dose ) FEV1 ( adjusted means over time : 87 to 103 mL ) throughout the 4 years of the study ( Figure 3 ) .
Figure 3 Trough ( pre - dose ) FEV1 Mean Values at Each Time Point [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repeated measure ANOVA was used to estimate means .
Means are adjusted for baseline measurements .
Baseline trough FEV1 ( observed mean ) = 1 . 12 .
Patients with ≥ 3 acceptable pulmonary function tests after Day 30 and non - missing baseline value were included in the analysis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Exacerbations The effect of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER on COPD exacerbations was evaluated in two clinical trials : a 4 - year clinical trial described above and a 6 - month clinical trial of 1829 COPD patients in a Veterans Affairs setting .
In the 6 - month trial , COPD exacerbations were defined as a complex of respiratory symptoms ( increase or new onset ) of more than one of the following : cough , sputum , wheezing , dyspnea , or chest tightness with a duration of at least 3 days requiring treatment with antibiotics , systemic steroids , or hospitalization .
The population had an age ranging from 40 to 90 years with 99 % males , 91 % Caucasian , and had COPD with a mean pre - bronchodilator FEV1 percent predicted of 36 % ( range = 8 % to 93 % ) .
Patients were permitted to use respiratory medications ( including short - acting and long - acting beta - agonists , inhaled and systemic steroids , and theophyllines ) other than inhaled anticholinergics .
In the 6 - month trial , the co - primary endpoints were the proportion of patients with COPD exacerbation and the proportion of patients with hospitalization due to COPD exacerbation .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER significantly reduced the proportion of COPD patients who experienced exacerbations compared to placebo ( 27 . 9 % vs . 32 . 3 % , respectively ; Odds Ratio ( OR ) ( tiotropium / placebo ) = 0 . 81 ; 95 % CI = 0 . 66 , 0 . 99 ; p = 0 . 037 ) .
The proportion of patients with hospitalization due to COPD exacerbations in patients who used SPIRIVA HANDIHALER compared to placebo was 7 . 0 % vs . 9 . 5 % , respectively ; OR = 0 . 72 ; 95 % CI = 0 . 51 , 1 . 01 ; p = 0 . 056 .
Exacerbations were evaluated as a secondary outcome in the 4 - year multicenter trial .
In this trial , COPD exacerbations were defined as an increase or new onset of more than one of the following respiratory symptoms ( cough , sputum , sputum purulence , wheezing , dyspnea ) with a duration of three or more days requiring treatment with antibiotics and / or systemic ( oral , intramuscular , or intravenous ) steroids .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER significantly reduced the risk of an exacerbation by 14 % ( Hazard Ratio ( HR ) = 0 . 86 ; 95 % CI = 0 . 81 , 0 . 91 ; p < 0 . 001 ) and reduced the risk of exacerbation - related hospitalization by 14 % ( HR = 0 . 86 ; 95 % CI = 0 . 78 , 0 . 95 ; p < 0 . 002 ) compared to placebo .
The median time to first exacerbation was delayed from 12 . 5 months ( 95 % CI = 11 . 5 , 13 . 8 ) in the placebo group to 16 . 7 months ( 95 % CI = 14 . 9 , 17 . 9 ) in the SPIRIVA HANDIHALER group .
All - Cause Mortality In the 4 - year placebo - controlled lung - function trial described above , all - cause mortality compared to placebo was assessed .
There were no significant differences in all - cause mortality rates between SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and placebo .
The all - cause mortality of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER was also compared to tiotropium inhalation spray 5 mcg ( SPIRIVA RESPIMAT 5 mcg ) in an additional long - term , randomized , double - blind , double - dummy active - controlled study with an observation period up to 3 years .
All - cause mortality was similar between SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and SPIRIVA RESPIMAT .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING SPIRIVA HANDIHALER consists of SPIRIVA capsules and the HANDIHALER device .
SPIRIVA capsules contain 18 mcg of tiotropium and are light green , with the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo on the SPIRIVA capsule cap and " TI 01 " on the SPIRIVA capsule body , or vice versa .
The HANDIHALER device is gray colored with a green piercing button .
It is imprinted with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ( tiotropium bromide inhalation powder ) , the Boehringer Ingelheim company logo .
It is also imprinted to indicate that SPIRIVA capsules should not be stored in the HANDIHALER device and that the HANDIHALER device is only to be used with SPIRIVA capsules .
SPIRIVA capsules are packaged in an aluminum / aluminum blister card and joined along a perforated - cut line .
SPIRIVA capsules should always be stored in the blister and only removed immediately before use .
The drug should be used immediately after the packaging over an individual SPIRIVA capsule is opened .
The following packages are available : • carton containing 5 SPIRIVA capsules ( 1 unit - dose blister card ) and 1 HANDIHALER inhalation device ( NDC 0597 - 0075 - 75 ) ( institutional pack ) • carton containing 30 SPIRIVA capsules ( 3 unit - dose blister cards ) and 1 HANDIHALER inhalation device ( NDC 0597 - 0075 - 41 ) • carton containing 90 SPIRIVA capsules ( 9 unit - dose blister cards ) and 1 HANDIHALER inhalation device ( NDC 0597 - 0075 - 47 ) Keep out of reach of children .
Do not get powder into eyes .
Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The SPIRIVA capsules should not be exposed to extreme temperature or moisture .
Do not store SPIRIVA capsules in the HANDIHALER device .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Not for Acute Use : Instruct patients that SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is a once - daily maintenance bronchodilator and should not be used for immediate relief of breathing problems ( i . e . , as a rescue medication ) .
Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions : Inform patients that anaphylaxis , angioedema ( including swelling of the lips , tongue , or throat ) , urticaria , rash , bronchospasm , or itching , may occur after administration of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
Advise patient to immediately discontinue treatment and consult a physician should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
Paradoxical Bronchospasm : Inform patients that SPIRIVA HANDIHALER can produce paradoxical bronchospasm .
Advise patients that if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , patients should discontinue SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
Worsening of Narrow - Angle Glaucoma : Instruct patients to be alert for signs and symptoms of narrow - angle glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs and symptoms develop .
Inform patients that care must be taken not to allow the powder to enter into the eyes as this may cause blurring of vision and pupil dilation .
Since dizziness and blurred vision may occur with the use of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , caution patients about engaging in activities such as driving a vehicle or operating appliances or machinery .
Worsening of Urinary Retention : Instruct patients to be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , painful urination ) .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
Instructions for Administering SPIRIVA HANDIHALER : Instruct patients on how to correctly administer SPIRIVA capsules using the HANDIHALER device [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Instruct patients that SPIRIVA capsules should only be administered via the HANDIHALER device and the HANDIHALER device should not be used for administering other medications .
Remind patients that the contents of SPIRIVA capsules are for oral inhalation only and must not be swallowed .
Instruct patients always to store SPIRIVA capsules in sealed blisters and to remove only one SPIRIVA capsule immediately before use or its effectiveness may be reduced .
Instruct patients to discard unused additional SPIRIVA capsules that are exposed to air ( i . e . , not intended for immediate use ) .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH Address medical inquiries to : ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 .
SPIRIVA ® and HANDIHALER ® are registered trademarks of and are used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Copyright © 2021 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL10494AK082021 Patient Information SPIRIVA ® ( speh REE vah ) HANDIHALER ® ( tiotropium bromide inhalation powder ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do NOT swallow SPIRIVA capsules .
Important Information : Do not swallow SPIRIVA capsules .
SPIRIVA capsules should only be used with the HANDIHALER device and inhaled through your mouth ( oral inhalation ) .
Read the information that comes with your SPIRIVA HANDIHALER before you start using it and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
• SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is a prescription medicine used each day ( a maintenance medicine ) to control symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , including chronic bronchitis and emphysema .
• SPIRIVA HANDIHALER helps make your lungs work better for 24 hours .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER relaxes your airways and helps keep them open .
You may start to feel like it is easier to breathe on the first day , but it may take longer for you to feel the full effects of the medicine .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER works best and may help make it easier to breathe when you use it every day .
• SPIRIVA HANDIHALER reduces the likelihood of flare - ups and worsening of COPD symptoms ( COPD exacerbations ) .
A COPD exacerbation is defined as an increase or new onset of more than one COPD symptom such as cough , mucus , shortness of breath , and wheezing that requires medicine beyond your rescue medicine .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is not a rescue medicine and should not be used for treating sudden breathing problems .
Your doctor may give you other medicine to use for sudden breathing problems .
It is not known if SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
Do not use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER if you : • are allergic to tiotropium , ipratropium ( Atrovent ® ) , or any of the ingredients in SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to SPIRIVA HANDIHALER may include : • raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • itching • rash • swelling of the face , lips , tongue , and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing If you have these symptoms of an allergic reaction , stop taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and call your doctor right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I tell my doctor before using SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
Before taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney problems .
• have glaucoma .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER may make your glaucoma worse .
• have an enlarged prostate , problems passing urine , or a blockage in your bladder .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER may make these problems worse .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if SPIRIVA HANDIHALER could harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if SPIRIVA HANDIHALER passes into breast milk .
You and your doctor will decide if SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is right for you while you breast - feed .
• have a severe allergy to milk proteins .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines and eye drops , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines or supplements may affect the way SPIRIVA HANDIHALER works .
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER is an anticholinergic medicine .
You should not take other anticholinergic medicines while using SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , including ipratropium .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if one of your medicines is an anticholinergic .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
• Use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER exactly as prescribed .
Use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER one time every day .
• Read the " Instructions for Use " at the end of this leaflet before you use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
Talk with your doctor if you do not understand the instructions .
• Do not swallow SPIRIVA capsules .
• Only use SPIRIVA capsules with the HANDIHALER device .
• Do not use the HANDIHALER device to take any other medicine .
• SPIRIVA HANDIHALER comes as a powder in a SPIRIVA capsule that fits the HANDIHALER device .
Each SPIRIVA capsule , containing only a small amount of SPIRIVA powder , is one full dose of medicine .
• Separate one blister from the blister card .
Then take out one of the SPIRIVA capsules from the blister package right before you use it .
• After the capsule is pierced , take a complete dose of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER by breathing in the powder by mouth two times , using the HANDIHALER device ( take 2 inhalations from one SPIRIVA capsule ) .
See the " Instructions for Use " at the end of this leaflet .
• Throw away any SPIRIVA capsule that is not used right away after it is taken out of the blister package .
Do not leave the SPIRIVA capsules open to air ; they may not work as well .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
Do not use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER more than one time every 24 hours .
• If you use more than your prescribed dose of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , call your doctor or a poison control center .
What should I avoid while using SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
• Do not let the powder from the SPIRIVA capsule get into your eyes .
Your vision may get blurry and the pupil in your eye may get larger ( dilate ) .
If this happens , call your doctor .
• SPIRIVA HANDIHALER can cause dizziness and blurred vision .
Should you experience these symptoms you should use caution when engaging in activities such as driving a car or operating appliances or other machines .
What are the possible side effects of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
SPIRIVA HANDIHALER can cause serious side effects , including : Allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • itching • rash • swelling of the lips , tongue , or throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing If you have these symptoms of an allergic reaction , stop taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and call your doctor right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• Sudden narrowing and blockage of the airways into the lungs ( bronchospasm ) .
Your breathing suddenly gets worse .
If you have these symptoms of bronchospasm , stop taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and call your doctor right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• New or worsened increased pressure in the eyes ( acute narrow - angle glaucoma ) .
Symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma may include : • eye pain • blurred vision • seeing halos ( visual halos ) or colored images along with red eyes Using only eye drops to treat these symptoms may not work .
If you have these symptoms , stop taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and call your doctor right away .
• New or worsened urinary retention .
Symptoms of blockage in your bladder and / or enlarged prostate may include : difficulty passing urine , painful urination .
If you have these symptoms of urinary retention , stop taking SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and call your doctor right away .
Other side effects with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER include : • upper respiratory tract infection • dry mouth • sinus infection • sore throat • non - specific chest pain • urinary tract infection • indigestion • runny nose • constipation • increased heart rate • blurred vision These are not all the possible side effects with SPIRIVA HANDIHALER .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
• Do not store SPIRIVA capsules in the HANDIHALER device .
• Store SPIRIVA capsules in the sealed blister package at room temperature 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep SPIRIVA capsules away from heat and cold ( do not freeze ) .
• Store SPIRIVA capsules in a dry place .
Throw away any unused SPIRIVA capsules that have been open to air .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions about storing your SPIRIVA capsules .
Keep SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , SPIRIVA capsules , and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about SPIRIVA HANDIHALER Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information leaflets .
Do not use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER for a purpose for which it has not been prescribed .
Do not give SPIRIVA HANDIHALER to other people even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
For more information about SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about SPIRIVA HANDIHALER that is written for health professionals .
For current prescribing information for SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , scan the code or for additional information you may also call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What are the ingredients in SPIRIVA HANDIHALER ?
Active ingredient : tiotropium Inactive ingredient : lactose monohydrate What is COPD ( Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ) ?
COPD is a serious lung disease that includes chronic bronchitis , emphysema , or both .
Most COPD is caused by smoking .
When you have COPD , your airways become narrow .
So , air moves out of your lungs more slowly .
This makes it hard to breathe .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH SPIRIVA ® and HANDIHALER ® are registered trademarks of and are used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Copyright © 2021 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Revised : November 2021 COL10494AK082021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use SPIRIVA ® ( speh REE vah ) HANDIHALER ® ( tiotropium bromide inhalation powder ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not swallow SPIRIVA capsules .
Important Information about using your SPIRIVA HANDIHALER • Do not swallow SPIRIVA capsules .
• SPIRIVA capsules should only be used with the HANDIHALER device and inhaled through your mouth ( oral inhalation ) .
• Do not use your HANDIHALER device to take any other medicine .
First read the Patient Information , then read these Instructions for Use before you start to use SPIRIVA HANDIHALER and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
Becoming familiar with your HANDIHALER device and SPIRIVA capsules : Your SPIRIVA HANDIHALER comes with SPIRIVA capsules in blister packaging and a HANDIHALER device .
Use the new HANDIHALER device provided with your medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A The parts of your HANDIHALER device include : ( See Figure A ) • dust cap ( lid ) • mouthpiece • mouthpiece ridge • base • green piercing button • center chamber • air intake vents [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Each SPIRIVA capsule is packaged in a blister .
( See Figure B ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C • Each SPIRIVA capsule contains only a small amount of powder .
( See Figure C ) This is 1 full dose .
• Do not open the SPIRIVA capsule or it may not work .
Taking your full daily dose of medicine requires 4 main steps .
Step 1 .
Opening your HANDIHALER device : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D After removing your HANDIHALER device from the pouch : • Open the dust cap ( lid ) by pressing the green piercing button .
( See Figure D ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E • Pull the dust cap ( lid ) upwards away from the base to expose the mouthpiece .
( See Figure E ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F • Open the mouthpiece by pulling the mouthpiece ridge up and away from the base so the center chamber is showing .
( See Figure F ) Step 2 .
Inserting the SPIRIVA capsule into your HANDIHALER device : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G Each day , separate only 1 of the blisters from the blister card by tearing along the perforated line .
( See Figure G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H Remove the SPIRIVA capsule from the blister : • Do not cut the foil or use sharp instruments to take out the SPIRIVA capsule from the blister .
• Bend 1 of the blister corners with an arrow and separate the aluminum foil layers .
• Peel back the printed foil until you see the whole SPIRIVA capsule .
( See Figure H ) • If you have opened more than 1 blister to the air , the extra SPIRIVA capsule should not be used and should be thrown away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I Place the SPIRIVA capsule in the center chamber of your HANDIHALER device .
( See Figure I ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J Close the mouthpiece firmly against the gray base until you hear a click .
Leave the dust cap ( lid ) open .
( See Figure J ) Step 3 .
Piercing the SPIRIVA capsule : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K • Hold your HANDIHALER device with the mouthpiece pointed up .
( See Figure K ) • Press the green piercing button once until it is flat ( flush ) against the base , then release .
This is how you make holes in the SPIRIVA capsule so that you get your medicine when you breathe in .
• Do not press the green button more than one time .
• Do not shake your HANDIHALER device .
• The piercing of the SPIRIVA capsule may produce small gelatin pieces .
Some of these small pieces may pass through the screen of your HANDIHALER device into your mouth or throat when you breathe in your medicine .
This is normal .
The small pieces of gelatin should not harm you .
Step 4 .
Taking your full daily dose ( 2 inhalations from the same SPIRIVA capsule ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L Breathe out completely in 1 breath , emptying your lungs of any air .
( See Figure L ) Important : Do not breathe into your HANDIHALER device .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure M With your next breath , take your medicine : • Hold your head in an upright position while you are looking straight ahead .
( See Figure M ) • Raise your HANDIHALER device to your mouth in a horizontal position .
Do not block the air intake vents .
• Close your lips tightly around the mouthpiece .
• Breathe in deeply until your lungs are full .
You should hear or feel the SPIRIVA capsule vibrate ( rattle ) .
( See Figure M ) • Hold your breath for a few seconds and , at the same time , take your HANDIHALER device out of your mouth .
• Breathe normally again .
The rattle tells you that you breathed in correctly .
If you do not hear or feel a rattle , see the section , " If you do not hear or feel the SPIRIVA capsule rattle as you breathe in your medicine . "
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure N To get your full daily dose , you must again , breathe out completely ( See Figure N ) and for a second time , breathe in ( See Figure O ) from the same SPIRIVA capsule .
Important : Do not press the green piercing button again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure O Remember : To get your full medicine dose each day , you must breathe in 2 times from the same SPIRIVA capsule .
Make sure you breathe out completely each time before you breathe in from your HANDIHALER device .
Caring for and storing your SPIRIVA HANDIHALER : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure P • After taking your daily dose , open the mouthpiece and tip out the used SPIRIVA capsule into your trash can , without touching it .
• Remove any SPIRIVA capsule pieces or SPIRIVA powder buildup by turning your HANDIHALER device upside down and gently , but firmly , tapping it .
( See Figure P ) Then , close the mouthpiece and dustcap for storage .
• Do not store your HANDIHALER device and SPIRIVA capsules ( blisters ) in a damp moist place .
Always store SPIRIVA capsules in the sealed blisters .
If you do not hear or feel the SPIRIVA capsule rattle as you breathe in your medicine : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure Q Do not press the green piercing button again .
Hold your HANDIHALER device with the mouthpiece pointed up and tap your HANDIHALER device gently on a table .
( See Figure Q ) Check to see that the mouthpiece is completely closed .
Breathe out completely before deeply breathing in again with the mouthpiece in your mouth .
( See Figure O ) If you still do not hear or feel the SPIRIVA capsule rattle after repeating the above steps : • Throw away the SPIRIVA capsule .
• Open the base by lifting the green piercing button and check the center chamber for pieces of the SPIRIVA capsule .
SPIRIVA capsule pieces in the center chamber can cause a SPIRIVA capsule not to rattle .
• Turn your HANDIHALER device upside down and gently , but firmly , tap to remove the SPIRIVA capsule pieces .
Call your doctor for instructions .
Cleaning your HANDIHALER device : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure R Clean your HANDIHALER device as needed .
( See Figure R ) • It takes 24 hours to air dry your HANDIHALER device after you clean it .
• Do not use cleaning agents or detergents .
• Do not place your HANDIHALER device in the dishwasher for cleaning .
Cleaning Steps : • Open the dust cap and mouthpiece .
• Open the base by lifting the green piercing button .
• Look in the center chamber for SPIRIVA capsule pieces or powder buildup .
If seen , tap out .
• Rinse your HANDIHALER device with warm water , pressing the green piercing button a few times so that the center chamber and the piercing needle is under the running water .
Check that any powder buildup or SPIRIVA capsule pieces are removed .
• Dry your HANDIHALER device well by tipping the excess water out on a paper towel .
Air - dry afterwards , leaving the dust cap , mouthpiece , and base open by fully spreading it out so that it dries completely .
• Do not use a hair dryer to dry your HANDIHALER device .
• Do not use your HANDIHALER device when it is wet .
If needed , you may clean the outside of the mouthpiece with a clean damp cloth .
Helpful Hints to help ensure that you are properly taking your full daily dose of SPIRIVA HANDIHALER : • Press the green piercing button 1 time ; Breathe in 2 times ; Breathe out completely before each of the 2 inhalations .
• Always use the new HANDIHALER device provided with your medicine .
• Keep your HANDIHALER device with the mouthpiece pointed up when pressing the green piercing button .
• Press the green piercing button 1 time to pierce the SPIRIVA capsule .
• Do not breathe out into your HANDIHALER device .
• Keep your HANDIHALER device in a horizontal position and keep your head upright , looking straight ahead , when breathing in .
• Check the center chamber of your HANDIHALER device for SPIRIVA capsule pieces or powder build - up .
If pieces or powder are seen , tap out before use .
• Clean your HANDIHALER as needed and dry thoroughly .
For current prescribing information for SPIRIVA HANDIHALER , scan the code or for additional information you may also call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH SPIRIVA ® and HANDIHALER ® are registered trademarks of and are used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Copyright © 2021 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Revised : November 2021 COL10494AK082021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Capsule Blister Pack Carton NDC 0597 - 0075 - 41 SPIRIVA ® HandiHaler ® ( tiotropium bromide inhalation powder ) 18 mcg / Capsule * DO NOT SWALLOW SPIRIVA CAPSULES .
For Use With HandiHaler Device Only .
FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Rx only 30 capsules 3 blister cards .
Each card contains 10 capsules .
SPIRIVA capsules should only be used with the HandiHaler device and inhaled through your mouth ( oral inhalation ) .
Boehringer Ingelheim [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
