Rx Only DESCRIPTION Namenda ® ( memantine hydrochloride ) is an orally active NMDA receptor antagonist .
The chemical name for memantine hydrochloride is 1 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethyladamantane hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C12H21N • HCl and the molecular weight is 215 . 76 .
Memantine HCl occurs as a fine white to off - white powder and is soluble in water .
Namenda is available as tablets or as an oral solution .
Namenda is available for oral administration as capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets containing 5 mg and 10 mg of memantine hydrochloride .
The tablets also contain the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose / colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , croscarmellose sodium , and magnesium stearate .
In addition the following inactive ingredients are also present as components of the film coat : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol 400 , FD & C yellow # 6 and FD & C blue # 2 ( 5 mg tablets ) , and hypromellose , titanium dioxide , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 400 and iron oxide black ( 10 mg tablets ) .
Namenda oral solution contains memantine hydrochloride in a strength equivalent to 2 mg of memantine hydrochloride in each mL .
The oral solution also contains the following inactive ingredients : sorbitol solution ( 70 % ) , methyl paraben , propylparaben , propylene glycol , glycerin , natural peppermint flavor # 104 , citric acid , sodium citrate , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action and Pharmacodynamics Persistent activation of central nervous system N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors by the excitatory amino acid glutamate has been hypothesized to contribute to the symptomatology of Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect through its action as a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive ( open - channel ) NMDA receptor antagonist which binds preferentially to the NMDA receptor - operated cation channels .
There is no evidence that memantine prevents or slows neurodegeneration in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine showed low to negligible affinity for GABA , benzodiazepine , dopamine , adrenergic , histamine and glycine receptors and for voltage - dependent Ca2 + , Na + or K + channels .
Memantine also showed antagonistic effects at the 5HT3 receptor with a potency similar to that for the NMDA receptor and blocked nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with one - sixth to one - tenth the potency .
In vitro studies have shown that memantine does not affect the reversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase by donepezil , galantamine , or tacrine .
Pharmacokinetics Memantine is well absorbed after oral administration and has linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range .
It is excreted predominantly in the urine , unchanged , and has a terminal elimination half life of about 60 - 80 hours .
Absorption and Distribution Following oral administration memantine is highly absorbed with peak concentrations reached in about 3 - 7 hours .
Food has no effect on the absorption of memantine .
The mean volume of distribution of memantine is 9 - 11 L / kg and the plasma protein binding is low ( 45 % ) .
Metabolism and Elimination Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism .
About 48 % of administered drug is excreted unchanged in urine ; the remainder is converted primarily to three polar metabolites which possess minimal NMDA receptor antagonistic activity : the N - glucuronide conjugate , 6 - hydroxy memantine , and 1 - nitroso - deaminated memantine .
A total of 74 % of the administered dose is excreted as the sum of the parent drug and the N - glucuronide conjugate .
The hepatic microsomal CYP450 enzyme system does not play a significant role in the metabolism of memantine .
Memantine has a terminal elimination half - life of about 60 - 80 hours .
Renal clearance involves active tubular secretion moderated by pH dependent tubular reabsorption .
Special Populations Renal Impairment : Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following single oral administration of 20 mg memantine HCl in 8 subjects with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance , CLcr , > 50 – 80 mL / min ) , 8 subjects with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 – 49 mL / min ) , 7 subjects with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 5 – 29 mL / min ) and 8 healthy subjects ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) matched as closely as possible by age , weight and gender to the subjects with renal impairment .
Mean AUC0 - ∞ increased by 4 % , 60 % , and 115 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The terminal elimination half - life increased by 18 % , 41 % , and 95 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment .
Dosage should be reduced in patients with severe renal impairment ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Impairment : Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following the administration of single oral doses of 20 mg in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B , score 7 - 9 ) and 8 subjects who were age - , gender - , and weight - matched to the hepatically - impaired subjects .
There was no change in memantine exposure ( based on Cmax and AUC ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
However , terminal elimination half - life increased by about 16 % in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
Memantine should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment as the pharmacokinetics of memantine have not been evaluated in that population .
Elderly : The pharmacokinetics of Namenda in young and elderly subjects are similar .
Gender : Following multiple dose administration of Namenda 20 mg b . i . d . , females had about 45 % higher exposure than males , but there was no difference in exposure when body weight was taken into account .
Drug - Drug Interactions Substrates of Microsomal Enzymes : In vitro studies indicated that at concentrations exceeding those associated with efficacy , memantine does not induce the cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 / 5 .
In addition , in vitro studies have shown that memantine produces minimal inhibition of CYP450 enzymes CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , and CYP3A4 .
These data indicate that no pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs metabolized by these enzymes are expected .
Inhibitors of Microsomal Enzymes : Since memantine undergoes minimal metabolism , with the majority of the dose excreted unchanged in urine , an interaction between memantine and drugs that are inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes is unlikely .
Coadministration of Namenda with the AChE inhibitor donepezil HCl does not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
Drugs Eliminated via Renal Mechanisms : Memantine is eliminated in part by tubular secretion .
In vivo studies have shown that multiple doses of the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide / triamterene ( HCTZ / TA ) did not affect the AUC of memantine at steady state .
Memantine did not affect the bioavailability of TA , and decreased AUC and Cmax of HCTZ by about 20 % .
Coadministration of memantine with the antihyperglycemic drug Glucovance ® ( glyburide and metformin HCl ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine , metformin and glyburide .
Memantine did not modify the serum glucose lowering effects of Glucovance ® , indicating the absence of a pharmacodynamic interaction .
Drugs that make the urine alkaline : The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80 % under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8 .
Therefore , alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline state may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects .
Drugs that alkalinize the urine ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) would be expected to reduce renal elimination of memantine .
Drugs highly bound to plasma proteins : Because the plasma protein binding of memantine is low ( 45 % ) , an interaction with drugs that are highly bound to plasma proteins , such as warfarin and digoxin , is unlikely .
CLINICAL TRIALS The effectiveness of Namenda ( memantine hydrochloride ) as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease was demonstrated in 2 randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) conducted in the United States that assessed both cognitive function and day to day function .
The mean age of patients participating in these two trials was 76 with a range of 50 - 93 years .
Approximately 66 % of patients were female and 91 % of patients were Caucasian .
A third study ( Study 3 ) , carried out in Latvia , enrolled patients with severe dementia , but did not assess cognitive function as a planned endpoint .
Study Outcome Measures : In each U . S . study , the effectiveness of Namenda was determined using both an instrument designed to evaluate overall function through caregiver - related assessment , and an instrument that measures cognition .
Both studies showed that patients on Namenda experienced significant improvement on both measures compared to placebo .
Day - to - day function was assessed in both studies using the modified Alzheimer ' s disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living inventory ( ADCS - ADL ) .
The ADCS - ADL consists of a comprehensive battery of ADL questions used to measure the functional capabilities of patients .
Each ADL item is rated from the highest level of independent performance to complete loss .
The investigator performs the inventory by interviewing a caregiver familiar with the behavior of the patient .
A subset of 19 items , including ratings of the patient ' s ability to eat , dress , bathe , telephone , travel , shop , and perform other household chores has been validated for the assessment of patients with moderate to severe dementia .
This is the modified ADCS - ADL , which has a scoring range of 0 to 54 , with the lower scores indicating greater functional impairment .
The ability of Namenda to improve cognitive performance was assessed in both studies with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) , a multi - item instrument that has been validated for the evaluation of cognitive function in patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The SIB examines selected aspects of cognitive performance , including elements of attention , orientation , language , memory , visuospatial ability , construction , praxis , and social interaction .
The SIB scoring range is from 0 to 100 , with lower scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
Study 1 ( Twenty - Eight - Week Study ) In a study of 28 weeks duration , 252 patients with moderate to severe probable Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by DSM - IV and NINCDS - ADRDA criteria , with Mini - Mental State Examination scores ≥ 3 and ≤ 14 and Global Deterioration Scale Stages 5 - 6 ) were randomized to Namenda or placebo .
For patients randomized to Namenda , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased weekly by 5 mg / day in divided doses to a dose of 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
Effects on the ADCS - ADL : Figure 1 shows the time course for the change from baseline in the ADCS - ADL score for patients in the two treatment groups completing the 28 weeks of the study .
At 28 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL change scores for the Namenda - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo was 3 . 4 units .
Using an analysis based on all patients and carrying their last study observation forward ( LOCF analysis ) , Namenda treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Time course of the change from baseline in ADCS - ADL score for patients completing 28 weeks of treatment .
Figure 2 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the treatment groups who had attained at least the change in the ADCS - ADL shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Namenda and placebo have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration ( a negative change in ADCS - ADL compared to baseline ) , but that the Namenda group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
( In a cumulative distribution display , a curve for an effective treatment would be shifted to the left of the curve for placebo , while an ineffective or deleterious treatment would be superimposed upon or shifted to the right of the curve for placebo . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 28 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in ADCS - ADL scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the SIB : Figure 3 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 28 weeks of the study .
At 28 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the Namenda - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo was 5 . 7 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , Namenda treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Time course of the change from baseline in SIB score for patients completing 28 weeks of treatment .
Figure 4 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of change in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Namenda and placebo have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration , but that the Namenda group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 28 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in SIB scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 ( Twenty - Four - Week Study ) In a study of 24 weeks duration , 404 patients with moderate to severe probable Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA criteria , with Mini - Mental State Examination scores ≥ 5 and ≤ 14 ) who had been treated with donepezil for at least 6 months and who had been on a stable dose of donepezil for the last 3 months were randomized to Namenda or placebo while still receiving donepezil .
For patients randomized to Namenda , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased weekly by 5 mg / day in divided doses to a dose of 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
Effects on the ADCS - ADL : Figure 5 shows the time course for the change from baseline in the ADCS - ADL score for the two treatment groups over the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL change scores for the Namenda / donepezil treated patients ( combination therapy ) compared to the patients on placebo / donepezil ( monotherapy ) was 1 . 6 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , Namenda / donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / donepezil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Time course of the change from baseline in ADCS - ADL score for patients completing 24 weeks of treatment .
Figure 6 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the treatment groups who had attained at least the measure of improvement in the ADCS - ADL shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Namenda / donepezil and placebo / donepezil have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration , but that the Namenda / donepezil group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 24 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in ADCS - ADL scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the SIB : Figure 7 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the Namenda / donepezil - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo / donepezil was 3 . 3 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , Namenda / donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / donepezil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 : Time course of the change from baseline in SIB score for patients completing 24 weeks of treatment .
Figure 8 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of improvement in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Namenda / donepezil and placebo / donepezil have a wide range of responses , but that the Namenda / donepezil group is more likely to show an improvement or a smaller decline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 24 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in SIB scores .
Study 3 ( Twelve - Week Study ) In a double - blind study of 12 weeks duration , conducted in nursing homes in Latvia , 166 patients with dementia according to DSM - III - R , a Mini - Mental State Examination score of less than 10 , and Global Deterioration Scale staging of 5 to 7 were randomized to either Namenda or placebo .
For patients randomized to Namenda , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased to 10 mg once daily after 1 week .
The primary efficacy measures were the care dependency subscale of the Behavioral Rating Scale for Geriatric Patients ( BGP ) , a measure of day - to - day function , and a Clinical Global Impression of Change ( CGI - C ) , a measure of overall clinical effect .
No valid measure of cognitive function was used in this study .
A statistically significant treatment difference at 12 weeks that favored Namenda over placebo was seen on both primary efficacy measures .
Because the patients entered were a mixture of Alzheimer ' s disease and vascular dementia , an attempt was made to distinguish the two groups and all patients were later designated as having either vascular dementia or Alzheimer ' s disease , based on their scores on the Hachinski Ischemic Scale at study entry .
Only about 50 % of the patients had computerized tomography of the brain .
For the subset designated as having Alzheimer ' s disease , a statistically significant treatment effect favoring Namenda over placebo at 12 weeks was seen on both the BGP and CGI - C .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Namenda ( memantine hydrochloride ) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Namenda ( memantine hydrochloride ) is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients and Caregivers : Caregivers should be instructed in the recommended administration ( twice per day for doses above 5 mg ) and dose escalation ( minimum interval of one week between dose increases ) .
Neurological Conditions Seizures : Namenda has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder .
In clinical trials of Namenda , seizures occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients treated with Namenda and 0 . 5 % of patients treated with placebo .
Genitourinary Conditions Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
Special Populations Hepatic Impairment Namenda undergoes partial hepatic metabolism , with about 48 % of administered dose excreted in urine as unchanged drug or as the sum of parent drug and the N - glucuronide conjugate ( 74 % ) .
No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Namenda should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
A dosage reduction is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) antagonists : The combined use of Namenda with other NMDA antagonists ( amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan ) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution .
Effects of Namenda on substrates of microsomal enzymes : In vitro studies conducted with marker substrates of CYP450 enzymes ( CYP1A2 , - 2A6 , - 2C9 , - 2D6 , - 2E1 , - 3A4 ) showed minimal inhibition of these enzymes by memantine .
In addition , in vitro studies indicate that at concentrations exceeding those associated with efficacy , memantine does not induce the cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 / 5 .
No pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs metabolized by these enzymes are expected .
Effects of inhibitors and / or substrates of microsomal enzymes on Namenda : Memantine is predominantly renally eliminated , and drugs that are substrates and / or inhibitors of the CYP450 system are not expected to alter the metabolism of memantine .
Acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) inhibitors : Coadministration of Namenda with the AChE inhibitor donepezil HCl did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
In a 24 - week controlled clinical study in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease , the adverse event profile observed with a combination of memantine and donepezil was similar to that of donepezil alone .
Drugs eliminated via renal mechanisms : Because memantine is eliminated in part by tubular secretion , coadministration of drugs that use the same renal cationic system , including hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , triamterene ( TA ) , metformin , cimetidine , ranitidine , quinidine , and nicotine , could potentially result in altered plasma levels of both agents .
However , coadministration of Namenda and HCTZ / TA did not affect the bioavailability of either memantine or TA , and the bioavailability of HCTZ decreased by 20 % .
In addition , coadministration of memantine with the antihyperglycemic drug Glucovance ® ( glyburide and metformin HCl ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine , metformin and glyburide .
Furthermore , memantine did not modify the serum glucose lowering effect of Glucovance ® .
Drugs that make the urine alkaline : The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80 % under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8 .
Therefore , alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects .
Urine pH is altered by diet , drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) and clinical state of the patient ( e . g . renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract ) .
Hence , memantine should be used with caution under these conditions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in a 113 - week oral study in mice at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was also no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats orally dosed at up to 40 mg / kg / day for 71 weeks followed by 20 mg / kg / day ( 20 and 10 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) through 128 weeks .
Memantine produced no evidence of genotoxic potential when evaluated in the in vitro S . typhimurium or E . coli reverse mutation assay , an in vitro chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , an in vivo cytogenetics assay for chromosome damage in rats , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
The results were equivocal in an in vitro gene mutation assay using Chinese hamster V79 cells .
No impairment of fertility or reproductive performance was seen in rats administered up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) orally from 14 days prior to mating through gestation and lactation in females , or for 60 days prior to mating in males .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Memantine given orally to pregnant rats and pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis was not teratogenic up to the highest doses tested ( 18 mg / kg / day in rats and 30 mg / kg / day in rabbits , which are 9 and 30 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Slight maternal toxicity , decreased pup weights and an increased incidence of non - ossified cervical vertebrae were seen at an oral dose of 18 mg / kg / day in a study in which rats were given oral memantine beginning pre - mating and continuing through the postpartum period .
Slight maternal toxicity and decreased pup weights were also seen at this dose in a study in which rats were treated from day 15 of gestation through the post - partum period .
The no - effect dose for these effects was 6 mg / kg , which is 3 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of memantine in pregnant women .
Memantine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether memantine is excreted in human breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when memantine is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use There are no adequate and well - controlled trials documenting the safety and efficacy of memantine in any illness occurring in children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The experience described in this section derives from studies in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease and vascular dementia .
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation : In placebo - controlled trials in which dementia patients received doses of Namenda up to 20 mg / day , the likelihood of discontinuation because of an adverse event was the same in the Namenda group as in the placebo group .
No individual adverse event was associated with the discontinuation of treatment in 1 % or more of Namenda - treated patients and at a rate greater than placebo .
Adverse Events Reported in Controlled Trials : The reported adverse events in Namenda ( memantine hydrochloride ) trials reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions in a highly selected patient population .
In actual practice or in other clinical trials , these frequency estimates may not apply , as the conditions of use , reporting behavior and the types of patients treated may differ .
Table 1 lists treatment - emergent signs and symptoms that were reported in at least 2 % of patients in placebo - controlled dementia trials and for which the rate of occurrence was greater for patients treated with Namenda than for those treated with placebo .
No adverse event occurred at a frequency of at least 5 % and twice the placebo rate .
Table 1 : Adverse Events Reported in Controlled Clinical Trials in at Least 2 % of Patients Receiving Namenda and at a Higher Frequency than Placebo - treated Patients . Body System Adverse Event Placebo ( N = 922 ) % Namenda ( N = 940 ) % Body as a Whole Fatiuge 1 2 Pain 1 3 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2 4 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 5 7 Headache 3 6 Gastrointestinal System Constipation 3 5 Vomiting 2 3 Musculoskeletal System Back pain 2 3 Psychiatric Disorders Confusion 5 6 Somnolence 2 3 Hallucination 2 3 Respiratory System Coughing 3 4 Dyspnea 1 2 Other adverse events occurring with an incidence of at least 2 % in Namenda - treated patients but at a greater or equal rate on placebo were agitation , fall , inflicted injury , urinary incontinence , diarrhea , bronchitis , insomnia , urinary tract infection , influenza - like symptoms , abnormal gait , depression , upper respiratory tract infection , anxiety , peripheral edema , nausea , anorexia , and arthralgia .
The overall profile of adverse events and the incidence rates for individual adverse events in the subpopulation of patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease were not different from the profile and incidence rates described above for the overall dementia population .
Vital Sign Changes : Namenda and placebo groups were compared with respect to ( 1 ) mean change from baseline in vital signs ( pulse , systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and weight ) and ( 2 ) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables .
There were no clinically important changes in vital signs in patients treated with Namenda .
A comparison of supine and standing vital sign measures for Namenda and placebo in elderly normal subjects indicated that Namenda treatment is not associated with orthostatic changes .
Laboratory Changes : Namenda and placebo groups were compared with respect to ( 1 ) mean change from baseline in various serum chemistry , hematology , and urinalysis variables and ( 2 ) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables .
These analyses revealed no clinically important changes in laboratory test parameters associated with Namenda treatment .
ECG Changes : Namenda and placebo groups were compared with respect to ( 1 ) mean change from baseline in various ECG parameters and ( 2 ) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables .
These analyses revealed no clinically important changes in ECG parameters associated with Namenda treatment .
Other Adverse Events Observed During Clinical Trials Namenda has been administered to approximately 1350 patients with dementia , of whom more than 1200 received the maximum recommended dose of 20 mg / day .
Patients received Namenda treatment for periods of up to 884 days , with 862 patients receiving at least 24 weeks of treatment and 387 patients receiving 48 weeks or more of treatment .
Treatment emergent signs and symptoms that occurred during 8 controlled clinical trials and 4 open - label trials were recorded as adverse events by the clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing .
To provide an overall estimate of the proportion of individuals having similar types of events , the events were grouped into a smaller number of standardized categories using WHO terminology , and event frequencies were calculated across all studies .
All adverse events occurring in at least two patients are included , except for those already listed in Table 1 , WHO terms too general to be informative , minor symptoms or events unlikely to be drug - caused , e . g . , because they are common in the study population .
Events are classified by body system and listed using the following definitions : frequent adverse events - those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients ; infrequent adverse events - those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 patients .
These adverse events are not necessarily related to Namenda treatment and in most cases were observed at a similar frequency in placebo - treated patients in the controlled studies .
Body as a Whole : Frequent : syncope .
Infrequent : hypothermia , allergic reaction .
Cardiovascular System : Frequent : cardiac failure .
Infrequent : angina pectoris , bradycardia , myocardial infarction , thrombophlebitis , atrial fibrillation , hypotension , cardiac arrest , postural hypotension , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary edema .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : Frequent : transient ischemic attack , cerebrovascular accident , vertigo , ataxia , hypokinesia .
Infrequent : paresthesia , convulsions , extrapyramidal disorder , hypertonia , tremor , aphasia , hypoesthesia , abnormal coordination , hemiplegia , hyperkinesia , involuntary muscle contractions , stupor , cerebral hemorrhage , neuralgia , ptosis , neuropathy .
Gastrointestinal System : Infrequent : gastroenteritis , diverticulitis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , melena , esophageal ulceration .
Hemic and Lymphatic Disorders : Frequent : anemia .
Infrequent : leukopenia .
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : Frequent : increased alkaline phosphatase , decreased weight .
Infrequent : dehydration , hyponatremia , aggravated diabetes mellitus .
Psychiatric Disorders : Frequent : aggressive reaction .
Infrequent : delusion , personality disorder , emotional lability , nervousness , sleep disorder , libido increased , psychosis , amnesia , apathy , paranoid reaction , thinking abnormal , crying abnormal , appetite increased , paroniria , delirium , depersonalization , neurosis , suicide attempt .
Respiratory System : Frequent : pneumonia .
Infrequent : apnea , asthma , hemoptysis .
Skin and Appendages : Frequent : rash .
Infrequent : skin ulceration , pruritus , cellulitis , eczema , dermatitis , erythematous rash , alopecia , urticaria .
Special Senses : Frequent : cataract , conjunctivitis .
Infrequent : macula lutea degeneration , decreased visual acuity , decreased hearing , tinnitus , blepharitis , blurred vision , corneal opacity , glaucoma , conjunctival hemorrhage , eye pain , retinal hemorrhage , xerophthalmia , diplopia , abnormal lacrimation , myopia , retinal detachment .
Urinary System : Frequent : frequent micturition .
Infrequent : dysuria , hematuria , urinary retention .
Events Reported Subsequent to the Marketing of Namenda , both US and Ex - US Although no causal relationship to memantine treatment has been found , the following adverse events have been reported to be temporally associated with memantine treatment and are not described elsewhere in labeling : aspiration pneumonia , asthenia , atrioventricular block , bone fracture , carpal tunnel syndrome , cerebral infarction , chest pain , cholelithiasis , claudication , colitis , deep venous thrombosis , depressed level of consciousness ( including loss of consciousness and rare reports of coma ) , dyskinesia , dysphagia , encephalopathy , gastritis , gastroesophageal reflux , grand mal convulsions , intracranial hemorrhage , hepatitis ( including increased ALT and AST and hepatic failure ) , hyperglycemia , hyperlipidemia , hypoglycemia , ileus , increased INR , impotence , lethargy , malaise , myoclonus , neuroleptic malignant syndrome , acute pancreatitis , Parkinsonism , acute renal failure ( including increased creatinine and renal insufficiency ) , prolonged QT interval , restlessness , sepsis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , suicidal ideation , sudden death , supraventricular tachycardia , tachycardia , tardive dyskinesia , thrombocytopenia , and hallucinations ( both visual and auditory ) .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Memantine induced neuronal lesions ( vacuolation and necrosis ) in the multipolar and pyramidal cells in cortical layers III and IV of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial neocortices in rats , similar to those which are known to occur in rodents administered other NMDA receptor antagonists .
Lesions were seen after a single dose of memantine .
In a study in which rats were given daily oral doses of memantine for 14 days , the no - effect dose for neuronal necrosis was 6 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis . The potential for induction of central neuronal vacuolation and necrosis by NMDA receptor antagonists in humans is unknown .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Class : Memantine HCl is not a controlled substance .
Physical and Psychological Dependence : Memantine HCl is a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive NMDA antagonist that did not produce any evidence of drug - seeking behavior or withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation in 2 , 504 patients who participated in clinical trials at therapeutic doses .
Post marketing data , outside the U . S . , retrospectively collected , has provided no evidence of drug abuse or dependence .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms associated with memantine overdosage in clinical trials and from worldwide marketing experience include agitation , confusion , ECG changes , loss of consciousness , psychosis , restlessness , slowed movement , somnolence , stupor , unsteady gait , visual hallucinations , vertigo , vomiting , and weakness .
The largest known ingestion of memantine worldwide was 2 . 0 grams in a patient who took memantine in conjunction with unspecified antidiabetic medications .
The patient experienced coma , diplopia , and agitation , but subsequently recovered .
Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to contact a poison control center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
As in any cases of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized , and treatment should be symptomatic .
Elimination of memantine can be enhanced by acidification of urine .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Namenda ( memantine hydrochloride ) shown to be effective in controlled clinical trials is 20 mg / day .
The recommended starting dose of Namenda is 5 mg once daily .
The recommended target dose is 20 mg / day .
The dose should be increased in 5 mg increments to 10 mg / day ( 5 mg twice a day ) , 15 mg / day ( 5 mg and 10 mg as separate doses ) , and 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week .
Namenda can be taken with or without food .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed on how to use the Namenda Oral Solution dosing device .
They should be made aware of the patient instruction sheet that is enclosed with the product .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed to address any questions on the usage of the solution to their physician or pharmacist .
Doses in Special Populations A target dose of 5 mg BID is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL / min based on the Cockroft - Gault equation ) : For males : CLcr = [ 140 - age ( years ) ] · Weight ( kg ) / [ 72 · serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) ] For females : CLcr = 0 . 85 · [ 140 - age ( years ) ] · Weight ( kg ) / [ 72 · serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) ] HOW SUPPLIED 5 mg Tablet : Bottle of 60 NDC # 21695 - 232 - 60 The capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets are tan , with the strength ( 5 ) debossed on one side and FL on the other .
10 mg Tablet : Bottle of 30 NDC # 21695 - 169 - 30 Bottle of 60 NDC # 21695 - 169 - 60 The capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets are gray , with the strength ( 10 ) debossed on one side and FL on the other .
Repackaged by Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
