DESCRIPTION Epifoam ® ( hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % ) is a topical aerosol foam containing : hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % in a base containing : propylene glycol , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate and PEG 100 stearate blend , laureth - 23 , polyoxyl - 40 stearate , methylparaben , propylparaben , trolamine , purified water and inert propellants : isobutane and propane .
Epifoam ® contains a synthetic corticosteroid used as an anti - inflammatory / antipruritic agent and a local anesthetic .
Hydrocortisone acetate Molecular weight : 404 . 50 .
Solubility of hydrocortisone acetate in water : 1 mg / 100 mL .
Chemical name : Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11β ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pramoxine hydrochloride Molecular weight : 329 . 86 .
Pramoxine hydrochloride is freely soluble in water .
Chemical name : morpholine , 4 - [ 3 - ( 4 - butoxyphenoxy ) propyl ] - , hydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pramoxine Hydrochloride A surface or local anesthetic which is not chemically related to the “ caine ” types of local anesthetics .
Its unique chemical structure is likely to minimize the danger of cross - sensitivity reactions in patients allergic to other local anesthetics .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or disease processes in the skin increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroid products are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Not for prolonged use .
If redness , pain , irritation or swelling persists , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Contents of the container are under pressure .
Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Keep this and all medicines out of the reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
In pediatric patients absorption may result in higher blood levels and thus more susceptibility to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
Do not use this medication for any disorder other than for which it has been prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressings .
• 5 .
Do not use any tight fitting diapers or plastic pants on a pediatric patient being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women of teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Caution should be exercised when any topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use PEDIATRIC PATIENTS MAY DEMONSTRATE GREATER SUSCEPTIBILTY TO TOPICAL CORTICOSTEROID - INDUCED HPA AXIS SUPPRESSION AND CUSHING ’ S SYNDROME THAN MATURE PATIENTS BECAUSE OF A LARGER SKIN SURFACE AREA TO BODY WEIGHT RATIO .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisone levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious using the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen and reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 848 - 6610 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : Burning , Itching , Irritation , Dryness , Folliculitis , Hypertrichosis , Acneiform eruptions , Hypopigmentation , Perioral dermatitis , Allergic contact dermatitis , Maceration of the skin , Secondary infection , Skin atrophy , Striae , Miliaria OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to affected area 3 to 4 times daily .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
Directions For Use : • 1 .
Shake the container vigorously for 5 - 10 seconds before each use .
• 2 .
While holding container upright , prime the container by pressing down several times on container cap until foam appears .
Apply a small amount directly to affected area 3 - 4 times daily depending on severity of the condition .
Alternatively , dispense a small amount to a pad and apply to affected areas .
NOTE : The aerosol container should never be inserted into vagina or anus .
• 3 .
The container and cap should be disassembled and rinsed with warm water after use .
HOW SUPPLIED Epifoam ® is supplied in 10 g pressurized cans .
NDC 0037 - 6824 - 10 10 g Store upright at controlled room temperature 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) .
DO NOT REFRIGERATE .
Distributed by : Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 ( c ) 2020 Mylan Specialty L . P . For Medical Inquiries , call toll - free 1 - 877 - 848 - 6610 Epifoam is a registered trademark of Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC , a Mylan company .
IN - 682410 - 04 141177 - 1020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0037 - 6824 - 10 epifoam ® ( hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % ) topical aerosol Rx Only MEDA 10 g net wt Description : A topical aerosol foam containing : hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % in a base containing : propylene glycol , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate and PEG 100 stearate blend , laureth - 23 , polyoxyl - 40 stearate , methylparaben , propylparaben , trolamine , purified water , and inert propellants : isobutene and propane .
WARNINGS : Contents of the container are under pressure .
Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Directions for Use See package insert for full prescribing information .
• 1 .
Shake the container vigorously for 5 - 10 seconds before each use .
• 2 .
While holding container upright , prime the container by pressing down several times on container cap until foam appears .
Apply a small amount directly to affected areas 3 - 4 times daily depending on severity of the condition .
Alternatively , dispense a small amount to a pad and apply to affected areas .
NOTE : The aerosol container should never be inserted into vagina or anus .
• 3 .
The container and cap should be disassembled and rinsed with warm water after use .
Distributed by : Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 © 2020 Mylan Specialty L . P . Epifoam is a registered trademark of Alaven Pharmaceutical LLC , a Mylan company .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Store upright at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
DO NOT REFRIGERATE .
117611 - 0720 UC - 682410 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
