Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients water , diisopropyl adipate , cyclomethicone , glycerin , undecylcrylene dimethicone , glyceryl stearate , PET - 100 stearate , polymethyl methacrylate , phenoxyethanol , benzyl alcohol , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , tocopyeryl acetate , carbomer , disodium EDTA , trietanoolamine , potassium sorbate CVS Health Daily Facial Moisturizer with Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen protects against the sun ' s harmful UVA and UVB rays to help prevent sunburn .
• non - comedogenic • fragrance free • dermatologist tested CVS Health Daily Facial Moisturizer with Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen is a lightweight formula that hydrates and nouruishes while protecting against the sun ' s harmful rays , with no greasy feel .
Perfect for all skin types .
* This product is not manufatured or distributed by Galmerma Laboratories , L . P . , distributor of Cetaphil Daily Facial Moisturizer SPF 15 ** vs . the 4 fl oz size of Cetaphil Daily Facial Moisturizer Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - shop - CVS Made in the U . S . A . of U . S . and imported components Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - shop - CVS Made in the U . S . A . of U . S . and imported components 995 . 001 / 955 AB principal display panel 20 % MORE THAN THE NATIONAL BRAND Compare to Cetaphil Daily Facial Moisturizer * CVS Health Daily Facial Moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN FOR ALL SKIN TYPES • Light , non - greasy feel • Non - comedogenic • Paraben , phthalate & fragrance free • UVA / UVB protection SPF 15 4 . 8 FL OZ ( 141 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
