Drug Facts Active ingredients Titanium Dioxide 7 . 7 % Purpose Sunscreen Use ( s ) • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating : • Reapply immediately after towel drying Other information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Cyclopentasiloxane , Water , Isododecane , Isopentyldiol , Styrene / Acrylates Copolymer , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Sea Salt ( Maris Sal ) , HDI / PPG / Polycaprolactone Crosspolymer , Dimethicone , Sorbitan Stearate , PPG - 12 / SMDI Copolymer , Polyglyceryl - 6 Polyricinoleate , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Alumina , Niacinamide , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Vanilla Tahitensis Fruit Extract , Tocopherol , Ascorbic Acid , Tocopheryl Acetate , Butylene Glycol , Boron Nitride , Sodium Citrate , Dipropylene Glycol , Polymethyl Methacrylate , Silica , Triethyl Citrate , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Isopropyl Myristate , Acrylates / Ammonium Methacrylate Copolymer , Polyglyceryl - 2 Isostearate , Lauryl Polyglyceryl - 3 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone , Dimethicone / PEG - 10 / 15 Crosspolymer , Polyglyceryl - 6 Polyricinoleate , Methicone , Phenoxyethanol , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 , CI 77492 , CI 77499 ) , Chromium Hydroxide Green ( CI 77289 ) , Yellow 5 ( CI 19140 ) , Chromium Oxide ( CI 77288 ) .
NUANCE SALMA HAYEK " Inspired by my grandmother , my products are designed to help every woman enhance the nuances that define her individual beauty . "
Salma COLOR and CORRECT CC CREAM This lightweight formula was developed with all the benefits of a BB cream , with added color to help visually improve the appearance of skin tone and provide effective skin coverage , minimizing the look of imperfections .
Contains Antioxidant Vitamins C and E . Dermatologist Tested No Parabens Not Tested on Animals Once applied , green tint converts to universally match most skin tones .
BEAUTY SECRET Throughout history , women around the world have extracted Vitamin C from natural resources to reap its antioxidant benefits .
In ancient Tibet , women would rub berries with a high Vitamin C content on their face and hands to help improve the appearance of skin tone .
Product Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
