Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone ( 2 . 5 % ) , Homosalate ( 10 % ) , Octisalate ( 5 % ) , Octocrylene ( 8 % ) Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a physician .
Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Juice , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Dimethicone , Ethylhexyl Cocoate , Ethylhexyl Palmitate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Fragrance , Glycerin , Musa Sapientum ( Banana ) Fruit Extract , Niacinamide ( Vitamin B3 ) , Phenoxyethanol , Polyurethane - 35 , Silica , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Phytate , Sodium Polyacrylate , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Tocopheryl ( Vitamin E ) Acetate , Water Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Distributed by Vacation Inc .
936 SW 1 st Ave # 888 Miami , FL 33130 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 ML Tube Label Vacation ® Classic Lotion BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 SUNSCREEN By the " Legendary " Vacation ® of Miami — " Leisure - Enhancing " & " Excessively Good " Sunscreen for " Long Days by the Pool " Water - Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) " The Scent of Summer " SPF 30 3 . 4 FL OZ / 100 ML [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
