WARNING : DIFFERENTIATION SYNDROME , CARDIAC CONDUCTION ABNORMALITIES AND ENCEPHALOPATHY INCLUDING WERNICKE ’ S Differentiation Syndrome : Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) treated with arsenic trioxide have experienced differentiation syndrome , which may be life - threatening or fatal .
Signs and symptoms may include unexplained fever , dyspnea , hypoxia , acute respiratory distress , pulmonary infiltrates , pleural or pericardial effusions , weight gain , peripheral edema , hypotension , renal insufficiency , hepatopathy , and multi - organ dysfunction , in the presence or absence of leukocytosis .
If differentiation syndrome is suspected , immediately initiate high - dose corticosteroids and hemodynamic monitoring until resolution .
Temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities : Arsenic trioxide can cause QTc interval prolongation , complete atrioventricular block and torsade de pointes , which can be fatal .
Before administering arsenic trioxide , assess the QTc interval , correct electrolyte abnormalities , and consider discontinuing drugs known to prolong QTc interval .
Do not administer arsenic trioxide to patients with a ventricular arrhythmia or prolonged QTc interval .
Withhold arsenic trioxide until resolution and resume at reduced dose for QTc prolongation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Encephalopathy : Serious encephalopathy , including Wernicke ’ s , has occurred with arsenic trioxide .
Wernicke ’ s is a neurologic emergency .
Consider testing thiamine levels in patients at risk for thiamine deficiency .
Administer parenteral thiamine in patients with or at risk for thiamine deficiency .
Monitor patients for neurological symptoms and nutritional status while receiving arsenic trioxide .
If Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy is suspected , immediately interrupt arsenic trioxide and initiate parenteral thiamine .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : DIFFERENTIATION SYNDROME , CARDIAC CONDUCTION ABNORMALITIES , and ENCEPHALOPATHY INCLUDING WERNICKE ’ S See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) treated with arsenic trioxide have experienced symptoms of differentiation syndrome , which may be life - threatening or fatal .
If differentiation syndrome is suspected , immediately initiate high - dose corticosteroids and hemodynamic monitoring until resolution .
Temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) • Arsenic trioxide can cause QTc interval prolongation , complete atrioventricular block and torsade de pointes , which can be fatal .
Before administering arsenic trioxide , assess the QTc interval , correct electrolyte abnormalities , and consider discontinuing drugs known to prolong QTc interval .
Do not administer arsenic trioxide to patients with ventricular arrhythmia or prolonged QTc interval .
Withhold arsenic trioxide until resolution and resume at reduced dose for QTc prolongation .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) • Serious encephalopathy , including Wernicke ’ s , has occurred with arsenic trioxide .
If Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy is suspected , immediately interrupt arsenic trioxide and initiate parenteral thiamine .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize .
( 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Arsenic trioxide injection is an arsenical indicated : • For induction of remission and consolidation in patients with APL who are refractory to , or have relapsed from , retinoid and anthracycline chemotherapy , and whose APL is characterized by the presence of the t ( 15 ; 17 ) translocation or PML / RAR - alpha gene expression .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 2 Relapsed or Refractory APL Arsenic trioxide injection is indicated for induction of remission and consolidation in patients with APL who are refractory to , or have relapsed from , retinoid and anthracycline chemotherapy , and whose APL is characterized by the presence of the t ( 15 ; 17 ) translocation or PML / RAR - alpha gene expression .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Relapsed or refractory APL : • Induction : Administer 0 . 15 mg / kg / day intravenously daily until bone marrow remission .
Do not exceed 60 days .
( 2 . 2 ) • Consolidation : Administer 0 . 15 mg / kg / day intravenously daily for 25 doses over a period up to 5 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Relapsed or Refractory APL A treatment course for patients with relapsed or refractory APL consists of 1 induction cycle and 1 consolidation cycle [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
• For the induction cycle , the recommended dosage of arsenic trioxide injection is 0 . 15 mg / kg / day intravenously daily until bone marrow remission or up to a maximum of 60 days .
• For the consolidation cycle , the recommended dosage of arsenic trioxide injection is 0 . 15 mg / kg / day intravenously daily for 25 doses over a period of up to 5 weeks .
Begin consolidation 3 to 6 weeks after completion of induction cycle .
2 . 3 Monitoring and Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions During induction , monitor coagulation studies , blood counts , and chemistries at least 2 to 3 times per week through recovery .
During consolidation , monitor coagulation studies , blood counts , and chemistries at least weekly .
Table 2 shows the dosage modifications for adverse reactions due to arsenic trioxide injection when used alone .
Table 2 : Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions of Arsenic Trioxide Injection Adverse Reaction Dosage Modification Differentiation syndrome , defined by the presence of 2 or more of the following : - Unexplained fever - Dyspnea - Pleural and / or pericardial effusion - Pulmonary infiltrates - Renal failure - Hypotension - Weight gain greater than 5 kg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide injection .
• Administer dexamethasone 10 mg intravenously every 12 hours until the resolution of signs and symptoms for a minimum of 3 days .
• Resume treatment when the clinical condition improves and reduce the dose of the withheld drug ( s ) by 50 % .
• Increase the dose of the withheld drug ( s ) to the recommended dosage after one week in the absence of recurrence of symptoms of differentiation syndrome .
• If symptoms re - appear , decrease arsenic trioxide injection to the previous dose .
QTc ( Framingham formula ) Prolongation greater than 450 msec for men or greater than 460 msec for women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Withhold arsenic trioxide injection and any medication known to prolong the QTc interval .
• Correct electrolyte abnormalities .
• After the QTc normalizes and electrolyte abnormalities are corrected , resume treatment with arsenic trioxide injection at a 50 % reduced dose ( 0 . 075 mg / kg / day daily ) for one week after resolution .
• If the 50 % reduced dose is tolerated for one week ( in the absence of QTc prolongation ) , increase the dose of arsenic trioxide injection to 0 . 11 mg / kg / day daily for the next week .
• The dose of arsenic trioxide injection can be increased to 0 . 15 mg / kg / day in the absence of QTc prolongation during that 14 - day dose - escalation period .
Hepatotoxicity , defined by 1 or more of the following : - Total bilirubin ( TB ) greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) - Aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) greater than 5 times the ULN - Alkaline phosphatase ( AP ) greater than 5 times the ULN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Withhold arsenic trioxide injection .
• Resume treatment at a 50 % reduced dose of the withheld drug ( s ) when TB is less than 1 . 5 times the ULN and AP / AST are less than 3 times the ULN .
• Increase the dose of the withheld drug ( s ) back to the recommended dosage after one week on the reduced dose in the absence of worsening of hepatotoxicity .
• Discontinue the withheld drug ( s ) permanently if hepatotoxicity recurs .
Other severe or life - threatening ( grade 3 to 4 ) nonhematologic reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • Temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide injection .
• When the adverse reaction resolves to no more than mild ( grade 1 ) , resume arsenic trioxide injection reduced by 2 dose levels ( see Table 3 below ) .
Moderate ( grade 2 ) nonhematologic reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • Reduce the dose of arsenic trioxide injection by 1 dose level ( see Table 3 below ) .
Leukocytosis ( WBC count greater than 10 Gi / L ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • Administer hydroxyurea .
• Hydroxyurea may be discontinued when the WBC declines below 10 Gi / L .
Myelosuppression , defined by 1 or more of the following : - absolute neutrophil count less than 1 Gi / L - platelets less than 50 Gi / L lasting more than 5 weeks [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • Consider reducing the dose of arsenic trioxide injection by 1 dose level ( see Table 3 below ) .
• If myelosuppression lasts ≥ 50 days or occurs on 2 consecutive cycles , assess a marrow aspirate for remission status .
In the case of molecular remission , resume arsenic trioxide injection at 1 dose level lower ( see Table 3 below ) .
Table 3 : Dose Reduction Levels for Hematologic and Nonhematologic Toxicities Dose Level Arsenic Trioxide Injection mg / kg intravenously once daily Starting level 0 . 15 - 1 0 . 11 - 2 0 . 10 - 3 0 . 075 2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Reconstitution Dilute arsenic trioxide injection with 100 mL to 250 mL 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , using proper aseptic technique , immediately after withdrawal from the vial .
Do not save any unused portions for later administration .
After dilution , store arsenic trioxide injection for no more than 24 hours at room temperature and 48 hours when refrigerated .
Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Administer arsenic trioxide injection as an intravenous infusion over 2 hours .
The infusion duration may be extended up to 4 hours if acute vasomotor reactions are observed .
A central venous catheter is not required .
The arsenic trioxide injection vial is single - dose and does not contain any preservatives .
Discard unused portions of each vial properly .
Do not mix arsenic trioxide injection with other medications .
Safe Handling Procedures Arsenic trioxide injection is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) arsenic trioxide clear solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 12 mg / 6 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) arsenic trioxide clear solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) and 12 mg / 6 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) arsenic trioxide in single - dose vials .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Arsenic trioxide injection is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to arsenic .
Hypersensitivity to arsenic .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor hepatic function tests at least twice weekly during induction and at least once weekly during consolidation .
Withhold arsenic trioxide for certain elevations in AST , alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin and resume at reduced dose upon resolution .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • Carcinogenesis : Arsenic trioxide is a human carcinogen .
Monitor patients for the development of second primary malignancies .
( 5 . 5 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception .
( 5 . 6 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Differentiation Syndrome Differentiation syndrome , which may be life - threatening or fatal , has been observed in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) treated with arsenic trioxide .
In clinical trials , 16 % to 23 % of patients treated with arsenic trioxide for APL developed differentiation syndrome .
Signs and symptoms include unexplained fever , dyspnea , hypoxia , acute respiratory distress , pulmonary infiltrates , pleural or pericardial effusion , weight gain , peripheral edema , hypotension , renal insufficiency , hepatopathy and multi - organ dysfunction .
Differentiation syndrome has been observed with and without concomitant leukocytosis , and it has occurred as early as day 1 of induction to as late as the second month induction therapy .
If differentiation syndrome is suspected , temporarily withhold arsenic trioxide and immediately initiate dexamethasone 10 mg intravenously every 12 hours and hemodynamic monitoring until resolution of signs and symptoms for a minimum of 3 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Patients treated with arsenic trioxide can develop QTc prolongation , torsade de pointes , and complete atrioventricular block .
In the clinical trial of patients with relapsed or refractory APL treated with arsenic trioxide monotherapy , 40 % had at least one ECG tracing with a QTc interval greater than 500 msec .
A prolonged QTc was observed between 1 and 5 weeks after start of arsenic trioxide infusion , and it usually resolved by 8 weeks after arsenic trioxide infusion .
There are no data on the effect of arsenic trioxide on the QTc interval during the infusion of the drug .
The risk of torsade de pointes is related to the extent of QTc prolongation , concomitant administration of QTc prolonging drugs , a history of torsade de pointes , pre - existing QTc interval prolongation , congestive heart failure , administration of potassium - wasting diuretics , or other conditions that result in hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia .
The risk may be increased when arsenic trioxide is co - administered with medications that can lead to electrolyte abnormalities ( such as diuretics or amphotericin B ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Prior to initiating therapy with arsenic trioxide , assess the QTc interval by electrocardiogram , correct pre - existing electrolyte abnormalities , and consider discontinuing drugs known to prolong QTc interval .
Do not administer arsenic trioxide to patients with a ventricular arrhythmia or prolonged QTc .
If possible , discontinue drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval .
If it is not possible to discontinue the interacting drug , perform cardiac monitoring frequently [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
During arsenic trioxide therapy , maintain potassium concentrations above 4 mEq / L and magnesium concentrations above 1 . 8 mg / dL .
Monitor ECG weekly and more frequently for clinically unstable patients .
For patients who develop a QTc Framingham greater than 450 msec for men or greater than 460 msec for women , withhold arsenic trioxide and any medication known to prolong the QTc interval .
Correct electrolyte abnormalities .
When the QTc normalizes and electrolyte abnormalities are corrected , resume arsenic trioxide at a reduced dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Encephalopathy Serious encephalopathies were reported in patients receiving arsenic trioxide .
Monitor patients for neurological symptoms , such as confusion , decreased level of consciousness , seizures , cognitive deficits , ataxia , visual symptoms and ocular motor dysfunction .
Advise patients and caregivers of the need for close observation .
Wernicke ’ s Encephalopathy Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy occurred in patients receiving arsenic trioxide .
Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency that can be prevented and treated with thiamine .
Consider testing thiamine levels in patients at risk for thiamine deficiency ( e . g . , chronic alcohol use , malabsorption , nutritional deficiency , concomitant use of furosemide ) .
Administer parenteral thiamine in patients with or at risk for thiamine deficiency .
Monitor patients for neurological symptoms and nutritional status while receiving arsenic trioxide .
If Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy is suspected , immediately interrupt arsenic trioxide and initiate parenteral thiamine .
Monitor until symptoms resolve or improve and thiamine levels normalize .
5 . 4 Hepatotoxicity Long - term liver abnormalities can occur in patients with APL treated with arsenic trioxide .
During treatment with arsenic trioxide , monitor hepatic function tests at least twice weekly during induction and at least once weekly during consolidation .
Withhold arsenic trioxide if elevations in AST or alkaline phosphatase occur to greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal and / or elevation in serum total bilirubin occurs to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal and resume at reduced dose upon resolution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Carcinogenesis The active ingredient of arsenic trioxide injection , arsenic trioxide , is a human carcinogen .
Monitor patients for the development of second primary malignancies .
5 . 6 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Arsenic trioxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Arsenic trioxide was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats when administered on gestation day 9 at a dose approximately 10 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis .
A related trivalent arsenic , sodium arsenite , produced teratogenicity when administered during gestation in mice at a dose approximately 5 times the projected human dose on a mg / m ² basis and in hamsters at an intravenous dose approximately equivalent to the projected human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 6 months after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Differentiation Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Carcinogenesis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 30 % ) are nausea , cough , fatigue , pyrexia , headache , abdominal pain , vomiting , tachycardia , diarrhea , dyspnea , hypokalemia , leukocytosis , hyperglycemia , hypomagnesemia , insomnia , dermatitis , edema , QTc prolongation , rigors , sore throat , arthralgia , paresthesia , and pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Relapsed or Refractory APL Safety information was available for 52 patients with relapsed or refractory APL who participated in clinical trials of arsenic trioxide .
Forty patients in the Study PLRXAS01 received the recommended dose of 0 . 15 mg / kg , of whom 28 completed both induction and consolidation cycles .
An additional 12 patients with relapsed or refractory APL received doses generally similar to the recommended dose .
Serious adverse reactions observed in the 40 patients with refractory or relapsed APL enrolled in Study PLRXAS01 included differentiation syndrome ( n = 3 ) , hyperleukocytosis ( n = 3 ) , QTc interval ≥ 500 msec ( n = 16 , 1 with torsade de pointes ) , atrial dysrhythmias ( n = 2 ) , and hyperglycemia ( n = 2 ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( > 30 % ) were nausea , cough , fatigue , pyrexia , headache , abdominal pain , vomiting , tachycardia , diarrhea , dyspnea , hypokalemia , leukocytosis , hyperglycemia , hypomagnesemia , insomnia , dermatitis , edema , QTc prolongation , rigors , sore throat , arthralgia , paresthesia , and pruritus .
Table 5 describes the adverse reactions in patients aged 5 to 73 years with APL who received arsenic trioxide at the recommended dose .
Similar adverse reactions profiles were seen in the other patient populations who received arsenic trioxide .
Table 5 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory APL Who Received Arsenic Trioxide in Study PLRXAS01 Body System Adverse reaction Any Grade Adverse Reactions Grade ≥ 3 Adverse Reactions n % n % Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 30 75 Abdominal pain ( lower & upper ) 23 58 4 10 Vomiting 23 58 Diarrhea 21 53 Sore throat 14 35 Constipation 11 28 1 3 Anorexia 9 23 Appetite decreased 6 15 Loose stools 4 10 Dyspepsia 4 10 Oral blistering 3 8 Fecal incontinence 3 8 Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 3 8 Dry mouth 3 8 Abdominal tenderness 3 8 Diarrhea hemorrhagic 3 8 Abdominal distension 3 8 Respiratory Cough 26 65 Dyspnea 21 53 4 10 Epistaxis 10 25 Hypoxia 9 23 4 10 Pleural effusion 8 20 1 3 Post nasal drip 5 13 Wheezing 5 13 Decreased breath sounds 4 10 Crepitations 4 10 Rales 4 10 Hemoptysis 3 8 Tachypnea 3 8 Rhonchi 3 8 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 25 63 2 5 Pyrexia ( fever ) 25 63 2 5 Edema - non - specific 16 40 Rigors 15 38 Chest pain 10 25 2 5 Injection site pain 8 20 Pain - non - specific 6 15 1 3 Injection site erythema 5 13 Weight gain 5 13 Injection site edema 4 10 Weakness 4 10 2 5 Hemorrhage 3 8 Weight loss 3 8 Drug hypersensitivity 2 5 1 3 Nervous system disorders Headache 24 60 1 3 Insomnia 17 43 1 3 Paresthesia 13 33 2 5 Dizziness ( excluding vertigo ) 9 23 Tremor 5 13 Convulsion 3 8 2 5 Somnolence 3 8 Coma 2 5 2 5 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 22 55 ECG QT corrected interval prolonged > 500 msec 16 40 Palpitations 4 10 ECG abnormal other than QT interval prolongation 3 8 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hypokalemia 20 50 5 13 Hypomagnesemia 18 45 5 13 Hyperglycemia 18 45 5 13 ALT increased 8 20 2 5 Hyperkalemia 7 18 2 5 AST increased 5 13 1 3 Hypocalcemia 4 10 Hypoglycemia 3 8 Acidosis 2 5 Hematologic disorders Leukocytosis 20 50 1 3 Anemia 8 20 2 5 Thrombocytopenia 7 18 5 13 Febrile neutropenia 5 13 3 8 Neutropenia 4 10 4 10 Disseminated intravascular coagulation 3 8 3 8 Lymphadenopathy 3 8 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Dermatitis 17 43 Pruritus 13 33 1 3 Ecchymosis 8 20 Dry skin 6 15 Erythema - non - specific 5 13 Increased sweating 5 13 Facial edema 3 8 Night sweats 3 8 Petechiae 3 8 Hyperpigmentation 3 8 Non - specific skin lesions 3 8 Urticaria 3 8 Local exfoliation 2 5 Eyelid edema 2 5 Musculoskeletal , connective tissue , and bone disorders Arthralgia 13 33 3 8 Myalgia 10 25 2 5 Bone pain 9 23 4 10 Back pain 7 18 1 3 Neck pain 5 13 Pain in limb 5 13 2 5 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 12 30 Depression 8 20 Agitation 2 5 Confusion 2 5 Vascular disorders Hypotension 10 25 2 5 Flushing 4 10 Hypertension 4 10 Pallor 4 10 Infections and infestations Sinusitis 8 20 Herpes simplex 5 13 Upper respiratory tract infection 5 13 1 3 Bacterial infection - non - specific 3 8 1 3 Herpes zoster 3 8 Nasopharyngitis 2 5 Oral candidiasis 2 5 Sepsis 2 5 2 5 Reproductive system disorders Vaginal hemorrhage 5 13 Intermenstrual bleeding 3 8 Ocular disorders Eye irritation 4 10 Blurred vision 4 10 Dry eye 3 8 Painful red eye 2 5 Renal and urinary disorders Renal failure 3 8 1 3 Renal impairment 3 8 Oliguria 2 5 Incontinence 2 5 Ear disorders Earache 3 8 Tinnitus 2 5 Other Clinically Relevant Adverse Reactions Leukocytosis Arsenic trioxide can induce proliferation of leukemic promyelocytes resulting in a rapid increase in white blood cell count .
Leukocytosis greater than 10 Gi / L developed during induction therapy in 50 % of patients receiving arsenic trioxide monotherapy for relapsed / refractory APL .
In the relapsed / refractory setting , a relationship did not exist between baseline WBC counts and development of hyperleukocytosis nor baseline WBC counts and peak WBC counts .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of arsenic trioxide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorders : Ventricular extrasystoles in association with QT prolongation , ventricular tachycardia in association with QT prolongation , including torsade de pointes , atrioventricular block , and congestive heart failure Ear and labyrinth disorders : Deafness Hematologic disorders : Pancytopenia , bone marrow necrosis Infections : Herpes zoster Investigations : Gamma - glutamyltransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Bone pain , myalgia , rhabdomyolysis Neoplasms benign , malignant and unspecified : Melanoma , pancreatic cancer , squamous cell carcinoma Nervous system disorders : Peripheral neuropathy , paresis , seizures , confusion , encephalopathy , Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy , posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Toxic epidermal necrolysis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs That Can Prolong the QT / QTc Interval Concomitant use of these drugs and arsenic trioxide may increase the risk of serious QT / QTc interval prolongation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Discontinue or replace with an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT / QTc interval while the patient is using arsenic trioxide .
Monitor ECGs more frequently in patients when it is not feasible to avoid concomitant use .
Drugs That Can Lead to Electrolyte Abnormalities Electrolyte abnormalities increase the risk of serious QT / QTc interval prolongation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant use of drugs that can lead to electrolyte abnormalities .
Monitor electrolytes more frequently in patients who must receive concomitant use of these drugs and arsenic trioxide .
Drugs That Can Lead to Hepatotoxicity Use of these drugs and arsenic trioxide may increase the risk of serious hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Discontinue or replace with an alternative drug that does not cause hepatotoxicity while the patient is using arsenic trioxide .
Monitor liver function tests more frequently in patients when it is not feasible to avoid concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Renal Impairment : Monitor patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) for toxicity when treated with arsenic trioxide ; dose reduction may be warranted .
( 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Monitor patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) for toxicity when treated with arsenic trioxide .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on the mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] and findings in animal studies , arsenic trioxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Arsenic trioxide was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats when administered on gestation day 9 at a dose approximately 10 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis ( see Data ) .
A related trivalent arsenic , sodium arsenite , produced teratogenicity when administered during gestation in mice at a dose approximately 5 times the projected human dose on a mg / m ² basis and in hamsters at an intravenous dose approximately equivalent to the projected human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis .
There are no studies with the use of arsenic trioxide in pregnant women , and limited published data on arsenic trioxide use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data One patient was reported to deliver a live infant with no reported congenital anomalies after receiving arsenic trioxide during the first five months of pregnancy .
A second patient became pregnant three months after discontinuing arsenic trioxide and was reported to have a normal pregnancy outcome .
A third patient was a pregnant healthcare provider who experienced dermal contact with liquid arsenic trioxide and had a normal pregnancy outcome after treatment and monitoring .
A fourth patient who became pregnant while receiving arsenic trioxide had a miscarriage .
Animal Data Studies in pregnant mice , rats , hamsters , and primates have shown that inorganic arsenicals cross the placental barrier when given orally or by injection .
An increase in resorptions , neural - tube defects , anophthalmia and microphthalmia were observed in rats administered 10 mg / kg of arsenic trioxide on gestation day 9 ( approximately 10 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis ) .
Similar findings occurred in mice administered a 10 mg / kg dose of a related trivalent arsenic , sodium arsenite ( approximately 5 times the projected human dose on a mg / m ² basis ) , on gestation days 6 , 7 , 8 , or 9 .
Intravenous injection of 2 mg / kg sodium arsenite ( approximately equivalent to the projected human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis ) on gestation day 7 ( the lowest dose tested ) resulted in neural - tube defects in hamsters .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Arsenic trioxide is excreted in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of arsenic trioxide on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 2 weeks after the final dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Arsenic trioxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Conduct pregnancy testing in females of reproductive potential prior to initiation of arsenic trioxide .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 6 months after the final dose .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 3 months after the final dose .
Infertility Males Based on testicular toxicities including decreased testicular weight and impaired spermatogenesis observed in animal studies , arsenic trioxide may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of arsenic trioxide as a single agent for treatment of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory APL is supported by the pivotal phase 2 study in 40 patients with relapsed or refractory APL .
Five patients below the age of 18 years ( age range : 5 to 16 years ) were treated with arsenic trioxide at the recommended dose of 0 . 15 mg / kg / day .
A literature review included an additional 17 patients treated with arsenic trioxide for relapsed or refractory APL , with ages ranging from 4 to 21 years .
No differences in efficacy and safety were observed by age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Use of arsenic trioxide as monotherapy in patients with relapsed or refractory APL is supported by the open - label , single - arm trial that included 6 patients aged 65 and older ( range : 65 to 73 years ) .
A literature review included an additional 4 patients aged 69 to 72 years who were treated with arsenic trioxide for relapsed or refractory APL .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Exposure of arsenic trioxide may be higher in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] less than 30 mL / min ) frequently for toxicity ; a dose reduction may be warranted .
The use of arsenic trioxide in patients on dialysis has not been studied .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Since limited data are available across all hepatic impairment groups , caution is advised in the use of arsenic trioxide in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) frequently for toxicity .
10 OVERDOSAGE Manifestations Manifestations of arsenic trioxide overdosage include convulsions , muscle weakness , and confusion .
Management For symptoms of arsenic trioxide overdosage , immediately discontinue arsenic trioxide and consider chelation therapy .
A conventional protocol for acute arsenic intoxication includes dimercaprol administered at a dose of 3 mg / kg intramuscularly every 4 hours until immediate life - threatening toxicity has subsided .
Thereafter , penicillamine at a dose of 250 mg orally , up to a maximum frequency of four times per day ( ≤ 1 g per day ) , may be given .
11 DESCRIPTION Arsenic trioxide injection is a sterile injectable solution of arsenic trioxide .
The molecular formula of arsenic trioxide in the solid state is As2O3 , with a molecular weight of 197 . 84 g / mol and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Arsenic trioxide is a white to off - white powder .
It is practically insoluble to sparingly soluble in water .
It dissolves in solutions of alkali hydroxides ( NaOH 1 M ) .
It is practically insoluble in ethanol , chloroform and ethyl ether .
Arsenic trioxide injection is available in 10 mL or 6 mL , single - dose vials containing 10 mg or 12 mg of arsenic trioxide respectively .
Arsenic trioxide injection is formulated as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , clear solution of arsenic trioxide in water for injection using sodium hydroxide and dilute hydrochloric acid to adjust to pH 8 .
Arsenic trioxide injection is preservative - free .
Arsenic trioxide , the active ingredient , is present at a concentration of 1 mg / mL in 10 mL vial and 2 mg / mL in 6 mL vial .
Inactive ingredients and their respective approximate concentrations are sodium hydroxide ( 1 . 2 mg / mL ) for solubilization , and sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment to pH 8 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of arsenic trioxide is not completely understood .
Arsenic trioxide causes morphological changes and DNA fragmentation characteristic of apoptosis in NB4 human promyelocytic leukemia cells in vitro .
Arsenic trioxide also causes damage or degradation of the fusion protein promyelocytic leukemia ( PML ) - retinoic acid receptor ( RAR ) - alpha .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a single - arm trial of arsenic trioxide ( 0 . 15 mg / kg daily ) , 16 of 40 patients ( 40 % ) had a QTc interval greater than 500 msec .
Prolongation of the QTc was observed between 1 and 5 weeks after arsenic trioxide infusion , and then returned towards baseline by the end of 8 weeks after arsenic trioxide infusion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The inorganic , lyophilized form of arsenic trioxide , when placed into solution , immediately forms the hydrolysis product arsenious acid ( AsIII ) .
AsIII is the pharmacologically active species of arsenic trioxide .
Monomethylarsonic acid ( MMAV ) , and dimethylarsinic acid ( DMAV ) are the main pentavalent metabolites formed during metabolism , in addition to arsenic acid ( AsV ) a product of AsIII oxidation .
The pharmacokinetics of arsenical species ( [ AsIII ] , [ AsV ] , [ MMAV ] , [ DMAV ] ) were determined in 6 APL patients following once - daily doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg for 5 days per week .
Over the total single - dose range of 7 mg to 32 mg ( administered as 0 . 15 mg / kg ) , systemic exposure ( AUC ) appears to be linear .
Peak plasma concentrations of arsenious acid ( AsIII ) , the primary active arsenical species were reached at the end of infusion ( 2 hours ) .
Plasma concentration of AsIII declined in a biphasic manner with a mean elimination half - life of 10 to 14 hours and is characterized by an initial rapid distribution phase followed by a slower terminal elimination phase .
The daily exposure to AsIII ( mean AUC0 - 24 h ) was 194 ng · hr / mL ( n = 5 ) on Day 1 of Cycle 1 and 332 ng · hr / mL ( n = 6 ) on Day 25 of Cycle 1 , which represents an approximate 2 - fold accumulation .
The primary pentavalent metabolites , MMAV and DMAV , are slow to appear in plasma ( approximately 10 to 24 hours after first administration of arsenic trioxide ) , but , due to their longer half - life , accumulate more upon multiple dosing than does AsIII .
The mean estimated terminal elimination half - lives of the metabolites MMAV and DMAV are 32 hours and 72 hours , respectively .
Approximate accumulation ranged from 1 . 4 - to 8 - fold following multiple dosing as compared to single - dose administration .
AsV is present in plasma only at relatively low levels .
Distribution The volume of distribution ( Vss ) for AsIII is large ( mean 562 L , N = 10 ) indicating that AsIII is widely distributed throughout body tissues .
Vss is also dependent on body weight and increases as body weight increases .
Elimination Metabolism Much of the AsIII is distributed to the tissues where it is methylated to the less cytotoxic metabolites , monomethylarsonic acid ( MMAV ) and dimethylarsinic acid ( DMAV ) by methyltransferases primarily in the liver .
The metabolism of arsenic trioxide also involves oxidation of AsIII to AsV , which may occur in numerous tissues via enzymatic or nonenzymatic processes .
AsV is present in plasma only at relatively low levels following administration of arsenic trioxide .
Excretion Approximately 15 % of the administered arsenic trioxide dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged AsIII .
The methylated metabolites of AsIII ( MMAV , DMAV ) are primarily excreted in the urine .
The total clearance of AsIII is 49 L / h and the renal clearance is 9 L / h .
Clearance is not dependent on body weight or dose administered over the range of 7 mg to 32 mg .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AsIII , AsV , and the pentavalent metabolites MMAV and DMAV was evaluated in 20 patients with advanced malignancies .
Patients were classified as having normal renal function ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] > 80 mL / min , n = 6 ) , mild renal impairment ( CLcr 50 to 80 mL / min , n = 5 ) , moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to 49 mL / min , n = 6 ) , or severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min , n = 3 ) .
Following twice - weekly administration of 0 . 15 mg / kg over a 2 - hour infusion , the mean AUC0 - INF for AsIII was comparable among the normal , mild and moderate renal impairment groups .
However , in the severe renal impairment group , the mean AUC0 - INF for AsIII was approximately 48 % higher than that in the normal group .
Systemic exposure to MMAV and DMAV tended to be larger in patients with renal impairment ; however , the clinical consequences of this increased exposure are not known .
AsV plasma levels were generally below the limit of assay quantitation in patients with impaired renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The use of arsenic trioxide in patients on dialysis has not been studied .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The effect of pharmacokinetics of AsIII , AsV , and the pentavalent metabolites MMAV and DMAV was evaluated following administration of 0 . 25 to 0 . 50 mg / kg of arsenic trioxide in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma .
Patients were classified as having normal hepatic function ( n = 4 ) , mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class A , n = 12 ) , moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class B , n = 3 ) , or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh class C , n = 1 ) .
No clear trend toward an increase in systemic exposure to AsIII , AsV , MMAV or DMAV was observed with decreasing level of hepatic function as assessed by dose - normalized ( per mg dose ) AUC in the mild and moderate hepatic impairment groups .
However , the one patient with severe hepatic impairment had mean dose - normalized AUC0 - 24 h and Cmax values 40 % and 70 % higher , respectively , than those patients with normal hepatic function .
The mean dose - normalized trough plasma levels for both MMAV and DMAV in this severely hepatically impaired patient were 2 . 2 - fold and 4 . 7 - fold higher , respectively , than those in the patients with normal hepatic function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients Following intravenous administration of 0 . 15 mg / kg / day of arsenic trioxide in 10 APL patients ( median age = 13 . 5 years , range 4 to 20 years ) , the daily exposure to AsIII ( mean AUC0 - 24 h ) was 317 ng · hr / mL on Day 1 of Cycle 1 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies No formal assessments of pharmacokinetic drug - drug interactions between arsenic trioxide and other drugs have been conducted .
The methyltransferases responsible for metabolizing arsenic trioxide are not members of the cytochrome P450 family of isoenzymes .
In vitro incubation of arsenic trioxide with human liver microsomes showed no inhibitory activity on substrates of the major cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes such as 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , 3A4 / 5 , and 4A9 / 11 .
The pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates for these CYP enzymes are not expected to be affected by concomitant treatment with arsenic trioxide .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with arsenic trioxide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Arsenic trioxide and trivalent arsenite salts have not been demonstrated to be mutagenic to bacteria , yeast , or mammalian cells .
Arsenite salts are clastogenic in vitro ( human fibroblast , human lymphocytes , Chinese hamster ovary cells , Chinese hamster V79 lung cells ) .
Trivalent arsenic was genotoxic in the chromosome aberrations assay and micronucleus bone marrow assay in mice .
The effect of arsenic on fertility has not been adequately studied in humans .
Decreased testicular weight and impaired spermatogenesis have been reported in animal studies .
Male Wistar rat pups were administered 1 . 5 mg / kg sodium arsenite solution via the intraperitoneal route from postnatal days 1 to 14 and testes were collected for evaluation on postnatal days 15 , 21 , and 50 .
Results of this study revealed an altered morphology of the seminiferous tubules along with degeneration of spermatogenic cells , increased number of sperm with abnormal morphology , and decreased sperm counts .
In beagle dogs administered intravenous arsenic trioxide for 90 days , reduced inner cell layers within seminiferous tubules and significantly decreased numbers of spermatocytes , spermatozoa , and sperm cells were observed at doses of 1 mg / kg / day and higher .
The 1 mg / kg / day dose is approximately 3 times the recommended human daily dose on a mg / m ² basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 2 Relapsed or Refractory APL Arsenic trioxide was investigated in Study PLRXAS01 , an open - label , single - arm trial in 40 patients with relapsed or refractory APL who were previously treated with an anthracycline and a retinoid regimen .
Patients received arsenic trioxide 0 . 15 mg / kg / day intravenously over 1 to 2 hours until the bone marrow was cleared of leukemic cells or for a maximum of 60 days .
The CR ( absence of visible leukemic cells in bone marrow and peripheral recovery of platelets and white blood cells with a confirmatory bone marrow ≥ 30 days later ) rate in this population of previously treated patients was 28 of 40 ( 70 % ) .
Among the 22 patients who had relapsed less than one year after treatment with tretinoin , there were 18 complete responders ( 82 % ) .
Of the 18 patients receiving arsenic trioxide ≥ one year from tretinoin treatment , there were 10 complete responders ( 55 % ) .
The median time to bone marrow remission was 44 days and to onset of CR was 53 days .
Three of 5 children , 5 years or older , achieved CR .
No children less than 5 years old were treated .
Three to six weeks following bone marrow remission , 31 patients received consolidation therapy with arsenic trioxide , at the same dose , for 25 additional days over a period up to 5 weeks .
In follow - up treatment , 18 patients received further arsenic trioxide as a maintenance course .
Fifteen patients had bone marrow transplants .
At last follow - up , 27 of 40 patients were alive with a median follow - up time of 484 days ( range 280 to 755 ) and 23 of 40 patients remained in complete response with a median follow - up time of 483 days ( range 280 to 755 ) .
Cytogenetic conversion to no detection of the APL chromosome rearrangement was observed in 24 of 28 ( 86 % ) patients who met the response criteria defined above , in 5 of 5 ( 100 % ) patients who met some , but not all , of the response criteria , and 3 of 7 ( 43 % ) of patients who did not respond .
RT - PCR conversions to no detection of the APL gene rearrangement were demonstrated in 22 of 28 ( 79 % ) of patients who met the response criteria , in 3 of 5 ( 60 % ) of patients who met some , but not all , of the response criteria , and in 2 of 7 ( 29 % ) of patients who did not respond .
Responses were seen across all age groups tested , ranging from 6 to 72 years .
The ability to achieve a CR was similar for both sexes .
There were insufficient patients of Black , Hispanic , or Asian ancestry to estimate relative response rates in these groups , but responses were seen in each group .
15 REFERENCES • “ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Arsenic trioxide injection is supplied as a sterile , clear , colorless solution in single - dose vials .
It is available as follows : 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) : 10 mL Single - Dose Vial : NDC 70121 - 1483 - 1 10 Single - Dose Vials in 1 Carton : NDC 70121 - 1483 - 7 12 mg / 6 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) : 6 mL Single - Dose Vial : NDC 70121 - 1658 - 6 10 Single - Dose Vials in 1 Carton : NDC 70121 - 1658 - 1 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Arsenic trioxide injection is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Differentiation Syndrome Advise patients that symptoms of APL differentiation syndrome include fever , sudden weight gain , dizziness / lightheadedness , labored breathing , and accumulation of fluid in the lungs , heart , and chest .
This syndrome is managed by immediate treatment with high - dose corticosteroids .
Advise patients to immediately report any of these symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Advise patients that arsenic trioxide may cause ECG abnormalities , including QT prolongation .
If extreme , this prolongation has the potential to cause fainting , irregular heartbeat , or more serious side effects .
Advise patients to immediately report any of these symptoms .
Advise patients to provide a complete list of current medications as caution should be taken when arsenic trioxide is co - administered with other medications that can cause QT prolongation or lead to electrolyte abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Encephalopathy and Wernicke ’ s Encephalopathy ( WE ) Advise patients that symptoms of encephalopathies include neurological symptoms such as confusion , decreased level of consciousness , seizures , cognitive deficits , ataxia , visual symptoms and ocular motor dysfunction .
Advise patients and caregivers to closely monitor for neurological symptoms and immediately report them to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients at risk for thiamine deficiency ( e . g . , chronic alcohol use , malabsorption , nutritional deficiency , concomitant use of furosemide ) that Wernicke ’ s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency that can be prevented and treated with thiamine supplementation , and to immediately report any neurological symptoms to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with arsenic trioxide for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 2 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males of reproductive potential that arsenic trioxide may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Other Adverse Reactions Advise patients of the expected adverse reactions of arsenic trioxide .
Most patients in clinical trials experienced some drug - related toxicity , most commonly leukocytosis , gastrointestinal symptoms ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal pain ) , fatigue , edema , hyperglycemia , dyspnea , cough , rash or itching , headaches , and dizziness .
Advise patients to call their healthcare provider at the onset of any adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Amneal Oncology Pvt . Ltd .
Telangana 509301 , INDIA Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 07 - 2021 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 70121 - 1483 - 1 Arsenic Trioxide Injection 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / 1 mL ) Rx Only Vial Label Amneal Pharmaceuticals LL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 70121 - 1483 - 7 Arsenic Trioxide Injection 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / 1 mL ) Rx Only Carton Label Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70121 - 1658 - 6 Arsenic Trioxide Injection 12 mg / 6 mL ( 2 mg / 1 mL ) Rx Only Vial Label Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 70121 - 1658 - 1 Arsenic Trioxide Injection 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / 1 mL ) Rx Only Carton Label Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
