Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine 20 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutesbefore eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • read the directions and warnings before use • • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • protect from moisture and light Inactive ingredients carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose ( monohydrate ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 20 mg 90 71610 - 389 - 60 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20200219 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg NDC 71610 - 389 - Famotidine , USP 20 mg Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
