Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone3 % Sunscreen Homosalate 15 % Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % Sunscreen Octocrylene 8 % Sunscreen Uses • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun • retains SPF after 80 minutes activity in the water , sweating or perspiring • provides high protection against sunburn KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : rash or irritation develop and lasts Warnings • Do not use : on damaged or broken skin • When using this product : keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and at least every 2 hours .
• children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit your time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m ..
• wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • reapply : ( bullet ) after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at lease every 2 hours For an all - over perfect tan , hold 6 - 8 inches from skin and spray with a quick , continuous side - to - side motion .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Hold 6 - 8 inches from skin and spray with a quick , continuous side - to - side motion .
When applying to face , spray onto hands and rub onto skin .
Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
Immediately after towel drying .
At least every 2 hours .
Inactive Ingredients : Alcohol Denat , Water , Dihydroxyacetone , PPG - 3 Benzyl Ether Ethylhexanoate , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Erythrulose , Tocopheryl Acetate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mystic Tan Protect + Tan 2 in 1 sunscreen & gradual self - tanner Broad Spectrum SPF 50 UVA / UVB NET WT .
6 . 0 fl .
oz .
( 170 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
