Rx Only DESCRIPTION HydrOXYzine hydrochloride has the chemical name of 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - Chloro - 〈 - phenylbenzyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] ethoxy ] ethanol dihydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HydrOXYzine hydrochloride occurs as a white , odorless powder which is very soluble in water .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 10 mg , 25 mg and 50 mg hydrOXYzine HCl .
Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystallince cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and Opadry white ( Titanium dioxide , Hypromellose 3 cP , Hypromellose 6 cP , PEG 400 and Polysorbate 80 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY HydrOXYzine hydrochloride is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate , or the benzodiazepines .
HydrOXYzine hydrochloride is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydrOXYzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
HydrOXYzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydrOXYzine hydrochloride ’ s clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia , hydrOXYzine may potentiate meperidineand barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
HydrOXYzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydrOXYzine as an antianxiety agent for long - term use , that is more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS HydrOXYzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit , induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydrOXYzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
HydrOXYzine is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Nursing mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydrOXYzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NONNARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydrOXYzine their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydrOXYzine hydrochloride .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effect of alcohol may be increased .
Geriatric use A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydrOXYzine included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydrOXYzine has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydrOXYzine and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydrOXYzine hydrochloride are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Anticholinergic : Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System : Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of the dose .
Involuntary motor activity including rare instances of tremor and convulsions have been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of hydrOXYzine hydrochloride overdosage is hypersedation .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and levaterenol or metaraminol .
Do not use epinephrine as hydrOXYzine hydrochloride counteracts its pressor action .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydrOXYzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydrOXYzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : in adults , 50 - 100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years , 50 - 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : in adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years , 50 - 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 - 100 mg in adults , and 0 . 6 mg / kg of body weight in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all potent medication , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED HydrOXYzine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 10 mg , 25 mg and 50 mg are supplied as follows : 10 mg Tablets : White , film coated , Round , biconvex tablets de - bossed with IG on one side and 275 on other .
25 mg Tablets : White , film coated , Round , biconvex tablets de - bossed with IG on one side and 276 on other .
50 mg Tablets : White , film coated , Round , biconvex tablets de - bossed with IG on one side and 277 on other .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0632 - 1 50 mg 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack WHITE 68462 - 362 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : InvaGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc Hauppauge , NY 11788 Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Generics Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkgenerics . com This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
