Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 12 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • For personal hand hygiene to help prevent the spread of bacteria .
• Use when soap and water are not available after changing diapers , assisting ill persons and before contact with a person under medical care or treatment .
• Recommended for repeat use .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use in the eyes .
When using this product do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry .
• Children under six years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store in a cool , dry place .
Inactive ingredients Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Polysorbate 20 , Glycerin , Potassium Sorbate , Fragrance , Citric Acid , Disodium EDTA , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) .
Manufactured for : BUBBLE MARKETING P . O . Box 19121 • Topeka , KS 66619 Tel : 785 . 862 . 0340 • Fax : 785 . 862 . 0347 www . clubwipesusa . com Kills 99 . 99 % of germs • Wet wipes cleans and sanitizes • Designed to use in health facilities , health clubs , schools and wherever germs are present • Board Certified Dermatologist Tested & Approved as a non - sensitizer nor irritant to skin DIRECTIONS FOR DISPENSING : Cut small " V " out of the bag and pull Styrofoam ® core out of the center of the roll .
Pull the first towel from the center of the roll approximately 6 to 8 inches .
Place bag in the dispenser and at the same time feed the first towel through the opening on the dispenser .
DISPOSAL : Offer empty container for recycling .
If recycling is not available , discard container in trash .
Discard towel in trash after use .
Do not flush .
CAUTION : May irritate eyes .
See side panel for further precautions and first aid instructions .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
