Powder for reconstitution for use in central venous access devices DESCRIPTION Cathflo ® Activase ® ( Alteplase ) is a tissue plasminogen activator ( t ‑ PA ) produced by recombinant DNA technology .
It is a sterile , purified glycoprotein of 527 amino acids .
It is synthesized using the complementary DNA ( cDNA ) for natural human tissue ‑ type plasminogen activator ( t ‑ PA ) obtained from an established human cell line .
The manufacturing process involves secretion of the enzyme Alteplase into the culture medium by an established mammalian cell line ( Chinese hamster ovary cells ) into which the cDNA for Alteplase has been genetically inserted .
Cathflo Activase ( Alteplase ) for injection is a sterile , white to pale yellow , lyophilized powder for intracatheter instillation for restoration of function to central venous access devices following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Each vial of Cathflo Activase contains 2 . 2 mg of Alteplase ( which includes a 10 % overfill ) , 77 mg of L ‑ arginine , 0 . 2 mg of polysorbate 80 , and phosphoric acid for pH adjustment .
Each reconstituted vial will deliver 2 mg of Cathflo Activase , at a pH of approximately 7 . 3 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Alteplase is an enzyme ( serine protease ) that has the property of fibrin - enhanced conversion of plasminogen to plasmin .
It produces limited conversion of plasminogen in the absence of fibrin .
Alteplase binds to fibrin in a thrombus and converts the entrapped plasminogen to plasmin , thereby initiating local fibrinolysis ( 1 ) .
In patients with acute myocardial infarction administered 100 mg of Activase as an accelerated intravenous infusion over 90 minutes , plasma clearance occurred with an initial half ‑ life of less than 5 minutes and a terminal half ‑ life of 72 minutes .
Clearance is mediated primarily by the liver ( 2 ) .
When Cathflo Activase is administered for restoration of function to central venous access devices according to the instructions in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , circulating plasma levels of Alteplase are not expected to reach pharmacologic concentrations .
If a 2 mg dose of Alteplase were administered by bolus injection directly into the systemic circulation ( rather than instilled into the catheter ) , the concentration of circulating Alteplase would be expected to return to endogenous circulating levels of 5 – 10 ng / mL within 30 minutes ( 1 ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES Three clinical studies were performed in patients with improperly functioning central venous access devices ( CVADs ) .
A placebo ‑ controlled , double ‑ blind , randomized trial ( Trial 1 ) and a larger open ‑ label trial ( Trial 2 ) investigated the use of Alteplase in predominately adult patients who had an indwelling CVAD for administration of chemotherapy , total parenteral nutrition , or long ‑ term administration of antibiotics or other medications .
Both studies enrolled patients whose catheters were not functioning ( defined as the inability to withdraw at least 3 mL of blood from the device ) but had the ability to instill the necessary volume of study drug .
Patients with hemodialysis catheters or a known mechanical occlusion were excluded from both studies .
Also excluded were patients considered at high risk for bleeding or embolization ( see PRECAUTIONS , Bleeding ) , as well as patients who were younger than 2 years old or weighed less than 10 kg .
Restoration of function was assessed by successful withdrawal of 3 mL of blood and infusion of 5 mL of saline through the catheter .
Trial 1 tested the efficacy of a 2 mg / 2 mL Alteplase dose in restoring function to occluded catheters in 150 patients with catheter occlusion up to 24 hours in duration .
Patients were randomized to receive either Alteplase or placebo instilled into the lumen of the catheter , and catheter function was assessed at 120 minutes .
Restoration of function was assessed by successful withdrawal of 3 mL of blood and infusion of 5 mL of saline through the catheter .
All patients whose catheters did not meet these criteria were then administered Alteplase , until function was restored or each patient had received up to two active doses .
After the initial dose of study agent , 51 ( 67 % ) of 76 patients randomized to Alteplase and 12 ( 16 % ) of 74 patients randomized to placebo had catheter function restored .
This resulted in a treatment ‑ associated difference of 51 % ( 95 % CI is 37 % to 64 % ) .
A total of 112 ( 88 % ) of 127 Alteplase ‑ treated patients had restored function after up to two doses .
Trial 2 was an open ‑ label , single arm trial in 995 patients with catheter dysfunction and included patients with occlusions present for any duration .
Patients were treated with Alteplase with up to two doses of 2 mg / 2 mL ( less for children who weighed less than 30 kg , see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) instilled into the lumen of the catheter .
Assessment for restoration of function was made at 30 minutes after each instillation .
If function was not restored , catheter function was re ‑ assessed at 120 minutes .
Thirty minutes after instillation of the first dose , 516 ( 52 % ) of 995 patients had restored catheter function .
One hundred twenty minutes after the instillation of the first dose , 747 ( 75 % ) of 995 patients had restored catheter function .
If function was not restored after the first dose , a second dose was administered .
Two hundred nine patients received a second dose .
Thirty minutes after instillation of the second dose , 70 ( 33 % ) of 209 patients had restored catheter function .
One hundred twenty minutes after the instillation of the second dose , 97 ( 46 % ) of 209 patients had restored catheter function .
A total of 844 ( 85 % ) of 995 patients had function restored after up to 2 doses .
Across Trials 1 and 2 , 796 ( 68 % ) of 1043 patients with occlusions present for less than 14 days had restored function after one dose , and 902 ( 88 % ) had function restored after up to two doses .
Of 53 patients with occlusions present for longer than 14 days , 30 ( 57 % ) patients had function restored after a single dose , and a total of 38 patients ( 72 % ) had restored function after up to two doses .
Three hundred forty - six patients who had successful treatment outcome were evaluated at 30 days after treatment .
The incidence of recurrent catheter dysfunction within this period was 26 % .
Trial 3 was an open ‑ label , single ‑ arm trial in 310 patients between the ages of 2 weeks and 17 years .
All patients had catheter dysfunction defined as the inability to withdraw blood ( at least 3 mL for patients ≥ 10 kg or at least 1 mL for patients < 10 kg ) .
Catheter dysfunction could be present for any duration .
The indwelling CVADs ( single - , double - , and triple ‑ lumen , and implanted ports ) were used for administration of chemotherapy , blood products or fluid replacement , total parenteral nutrition , antibiotics , or other medications .
Patients with hemodialysis catheters or known mechanical occlusions were excluded from the study , as were patients considered at high risk for bleeding or embolization .
Patients were treated with up to two doses of Cathflo Activase instilled into the catheter lumen .
For patients weighing ≥ 30 kg , the dose was 2 mg in 2 mL .
For patients weighing < 30 kg , the dose was 110 % of the estimated internal lumen volume , not to exceed 2 mg in 2 mL .
Restoration of function was assessed at 30 and 120 minutes ( if required ) after administration of each dose .
Restoration of function was defined as the ability to withdraw fluid ( 3 mL in patients ≥ 10 kg ; 1 mL in patients < 10 kg ) and infuse saline ( 5 mL in patients ≥ 10 kg ; 3 mL in patients < 10 kg ) .
The overall rate of catheter function restoration of 83 % ( 257 of 310 ) was similar to that observed in Trial 2 , as were the rates of function restoration at the intermediate assessments .
The three trials had similar rates of catheter function restoration among the catheter types studied ( single - , double - , and triple ‑ lumen , and implanted ports ) .
No gender differences were observed in the rate of catheter function restoration .
Results were similar across all age subgroups .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cathflo ® Activase ® ( Alteplase ) is indicated for the restoration of function to central venous access devices as assessed by the ability to withdraw blood .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cathflo Activase should not be administered to patients with known hypersensitivity to Alteplase or any component of the formulation ( see DESCRIPTION ) .
WARNINGS None .
PRECAUTIONS General Catheter dysfunction may be caused by a variety of conditions other than thrombus formation , such as catheter malposition , mechanical failure , constriction by a suture , and lipid deposits or drug precipitates within the catheter lumen .
These types of conditions should be considered before treatment with Cathflo Activase .
Because of the risk of damage to the vascular wall or collapse of soft ‑ walled catheters , vigorous suction should not be applied during attempts to determine catheter occlusion .
Excessive pressure should be avoided when Cathflo Activase is instilled into the catheter .
Such force could cause rupture of the catheter or expulsion of the clot into the circulation .
Bleeding The most frequent adverse reaction associated with all thrombolytics in all approved indications is bleeding ( 3 , 4 ) .
Cathflo Activase has not been studied in patients known to be at risk for bleeding events that may be associated with the use of thrombolytics .
Caution should be exercised with patients who have active internal bleeding or who have had any of the following within 48 hours : surgery , obstetrical delivery , percutaneous biopsy of viscera or deep tissues , or puncture of non ‑ compressible vessels .
In addition , caution should be exercised with patients who have thrombocytopenia , other hemostatic defects ( including those secondary to severe hepatic or renal disease ) , or any condition for which bleeding constitutes a significant hazard or would be particularly difficult to manage because of its location , or who are at high risk for embolic complications ( e . g . , venous thrombosis in the region of the catheter ) .
Death and permanent disability have been reported in patients who have experienced stroke and other serious bleeding episodes when receiving pharmacologic doses of a thrombolytic .
Should serious bleeding in a critical location ( e . g . , intracranial , gastrointestinal , retroperitoneal , pericardial ) occur , treatment with Cathflo Activase should be stopped and the drug should be withdrawn from the catheter .
Infections Cathflo Activase should be used with caution in the presence of known or suspected infection in the catheter .
Using Cathflo Activase in patients with infected catheters may release a localized infection into the systemic circulation ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
As with all catheterization procedures , care should be used to maintain aseptic technique .
Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity , including urticaria , angioedema and anaphylaxis , has been reported in association with use of Cathflo Activase .
Monitor patients treated with Cathflo Activase for signs of hypersensitivity and treat appropriately if necessary .
Re - Administration In clinical trials , patients received up to two 2 mg / 2 mL doses ( 4 mg total ) of Alteplase .
Additional re - administration of Cathflo Activase has not been studied .
Antibody formation in patients receiving one or more doses of Cathflo Activase for restoration of function to CVADs has not been studied .
Drug Interactions The interaction of Cathflo Activase with other drugs has not been formally studied .
Concomitant use of drugs affecting coagulation and / or platelet function has not been studied .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Potential interactions between Cathflo Activase and laboratory tests have not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long ‑ term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility .
Short - term studies that evaluated tumorigenicity of Alteplase and effect on tumor metastases were negative in rodents .
Studies to determine mutagenicity ( Ames test ) and chromosomal aberration assays in human lymphocytes were negative at all concentrations tested .
Cytotoxicity , as reflected by a decrease in mitotic index , was evidenced only after prolonged exposure at high concentrations exceeding those expected to be achieved with Cathflo Activase .
Pregnancy Alteplase has been shown to have an embryocidal effect due to an increased postimplantation loss rate in rabbits when administered intravenously during organogenesis at a dose ( 3 mg / kg ) approximately 50 times human exposure ( based on AUC ) at the dose for restoration of function to occluded CVADs .
No maternal or fetal toxicity was evident at a dose ( 1 mg / kg ) approximately 16 times human exposure at the dose for restoration of function to occluded CVADs .
There are no adequate and well ‑ controlled studies in pregnant women .
Cathflo Activase should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Cathflo Activase is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Cathflo Activase is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use A total of 432 subjects under age 17 have received Cathflo Activase in the three trials .
Rates of serious adverse events were similar in the pediatric and adult patients , as were the rates of catheter function restoration .
Geriatric Use In 312 patients enrolled who were age 65 years and over , no incidents of intracranial hemorrhage ( ICH ) , embolic events , or major bleeding events were observed .
One hundred three of these patients were age 75 years and over , and 12 were age 85 years and over .
The effect of Alteplase on common age - related comorbidities has not been studied .
In general , caution should be used in geriatric patients with conditions known to increase the risk of bleeding ( see PRECAUTIONS , Bleeding ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in Section PRECAUTIONS of the label : • Bleeding • Hypersensitivity In the clinical trials , the most serious adverse events reported after treatment were sepsis ( see PRECAUTIONS , Infections ) , gastrointestinal bleeding , and venous thrombosis .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Trials 1 and 2 The data described for Trials 1 and 2 reflect exposure to Cathflo Activase in 1122 patients , of whom 880 received a single dose and 242 received two sequential doses of Cathflo Activase .
In the Cathflo Activase Trials 1 and 2 , only limited , focused types of serious adverse events were recorded , including death , major hemorrhage , intracranial hemorrhage , pulmonary or arterial emboli , and other serious adverse events not thought to be attributed to underlying disease or concurrent illness .
Major hemorrhage was defined as severe blood loss ( > 5 mL / kg ) , blood loss requiring transfusion , or blood loss causing hypotension .
Non ‑ serious adverse events and serious events thought to be due to underlying disease or concurrent illness were not recorded .
Patients were observed for serious adverse events until catheter function was deemed to be restored or for a maximum of 4 or 6 hours depending on study .
For most patients the observation period was 30 minutes to 2 hours .
Spontaneously reported deaths and serious adverse events that were not thought to be related to the patient ' s underlying disease were also recorded during the 30 days following treatment .
Four catheter - related sepsis events occurred from 15 minutes to 1 day after treatment with Alteplase , and a fifth sepsis event occurred on Day 3 after Alteplase treatment .
All 5 patients had positive catheter or peripheral blood cultures within 24 hours after symptom onset .
Three patients had a major hemorrhage from a gastrointestinal source from 2 to 3 days after Alteplase treatment .
One case of injection site hemorrhage was observed at 4 hours after treatment in a patient with pre - existing thrombocytopenia .
These events may have been related to underlying disease and treatments for malignancy , but a contribution to occurrence of the events from Alteplase cannot be ruled out .
There were no reports of intracranial hemorrhage .
Three cases of subclavian and upper extremity deep venous thrombosis were reported 3 to 7 days after treatment .
These events may have been related to underlying disease or to the long - term presence of an indwelling catheter , but a contribution to occurrence of the events from Alteplase treatment cannot be ruled out .
There were no reports of pulmonary emboli .
There were no gender - related differences observed in the rates of adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions profiles were similar across all age subgroups .
Trial 3 In Trial 3 all serious adverse events were recorded with a specific interest in intracranial hemorrhage , major hemorrhage , thrombosis , embolic events , sepsis and catheter related complications .
Major hemorrhage was defined as severe blood loss ( > 5 mL / kg ) , blood loss requiring transfusion , or blood loss causing hypotension .
Non - serious adverse events were not recorded .
Patients were observed until catheter function was deemed to be restored or for a maximum of 4 hours after the first dose .
Additionally , serious adverse events were elicited from patients at 48 hours ( up to 96 hours ) following completion of treatment .
No pediatric patients in Trial 3 experienced an intracranial hemorrhage , major hemorrhage , thrombosis , or an embolic event .
Three cases of sepsis occurred 2 to 44 hours after treatment with Cathflo Activase .
All of these patients had evidence of infection prior to administration of Cathflo Activase .
An additional patient developed fever and lethargy within one day of Cathflo Activase administration , which required outpatient intravenous antibiotics .
In one subject , the lumen of the catheter , placed 2 years previously , ruptured with infusion of the study drug .
There were no gender - related differences observed in the rates of adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions profiles were similar across all age groups .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cathflo ® Activase ® ( Alteplase ) is for instillation into the dysfunctional catheter at a concentration of 1 mg / mL .
• Patients weighing ≥ 30 kg : 2 mg in 2 mL • Patients weighing < 30 kg : 110 % of the internal lumen volume of the catheter , not to exceed 2 mg in 2 mL If catheter function is not restored at 120 minutes after 1 dose of Cathflo Activase , a second dose may be instilled ( see Instructions for Administration ) .
There is no efficacy or safety information on dosing in excess of 2 mg per dose for this indication .
Studies have not been performed with administration of total doses greater than 4 mg ( two 2 ‑ mg doses ) .
Instructions for Administration Preparation of Solution Reconstitute Cathflo Activase to a final concentration of 1 mg / mL : • Aseptically withdraw 2 . 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( diluent is not provided ) .
Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection .
• Inject the 2 . 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , into the Cathflo Activase vial , directing the diluent stream into the powder .
Slight foaming is not unusual ; let the vial stand undisturbed to allow large bubbles to dissipate .
• Mix by gently swirling until the contents are completely dissolved .
Complete dissolution should occur within 3 minutes .
DO NOT SHAKE .
The reconstituted preparation results in a colorless to pale yellow transparent solution containing 1 mg / mL Cathflo Activase at a pH of approximately 7 . 3 .
• Cathflo Activase contains no antibacterial preservatives and should be reconstituted immediately before use .
The solution may be used for intracatheter instillation within 8 hours following reconstitution when stored at 2 – 30 ° C ( 36 – 86 ° F ) .
No other medication should be added to solutions containing Cathflo Activase .
Instillation of Solution into the Catheter • Inspect the product prior to administration for foreign matter and discoloration .
• Withdraw 2 mL ( 2 mg ) of solution from the reconstituted vial .
• Instill the appropriate dose of Cathflo Activase ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) into the occluded catheter .
• After 30 minutes of dwell time , assess catheter function by attempting to aspirate blood .
If the catheter is functional , go to Step 7 .
If the catheter is not functional , go to Step 5 .
• After 120 minutes of dwell time , assess catheter function by attempting to aspirate blood and catheter contents .
If the catheter is functional , go to Step 7 .
If the catheter is not functional , go to Step 6 .
• If catheter function is not restored after one dose of Cathflo Activase , a second dose of equal amount may be instilled .
Repeat the procedure beginning with Step 1 under Preparation of Solution .
• If catheter function has been restored , aspirate 4 – 5 mL of blood in patients ≥ 10 kg or 3 mL in patients < 10 kg to remove Cathflo Activase and residual clot , and gently irrigate the catheter with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Any unused solution should be discarded .
Stability and Storage Store lyophilized Cathflo Activase at refrigerated temperature ( 2 – 8 ° C / 36 – 46 ° F ) .
Do not use beyond the expiration date on the vial .
Protect the lyophilized material during extended storage from excessive exposure to light .
HOW SUPPLIED Cathflo Activase ( Alteplase ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , lyophilized powder in 2 mg vials .
Cathflo ® Activase ® is available in a carton that contains one 2 mg vial of Cathflo ® Activase ® ( Alteplase ) : NDC 50242 ‑ 041 ‑ 64 or a carton that contains ten 2 mg vials of Cathflo ® Activase ® ( Alteplase ) : NDC 50242 - 041 - 10 .
REFERENCES • Collen D , Lijnen HR .
Fibrinolysis and the control of hemostasis .
In : Stamatoyannopoulos G , Nienhui AW , Majerus PW , Varmus H , editors .
The molecular basis of blood diseases , 2 nd edition .
Philadelphia : Saunders , 1994 : 662 – 88 .
• Tanswell P , Tebbe U , Neuhaus K - L , Glasle - Schwarz L , Wojick J , Seifried E . Pharmacokinetics and fibrin specificity of alteplase during accelerated infusions in acute myocardial infarction .
J Am Coll Cardiol 1992 ; 19 : 1071 – 5 .
• Califf RM , Topol EJ , George BS , Boswick JM , Abbottsmith C , Sigmon KN , et al . , and the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction Study Group .
Hemorrhagic complications associated with the use of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator in treatment of acute myocardial infarction .
Am J Med 1988 ; 85 : 353 – 9 .
• Bovill EG , Terrin ML , Stump DC , Berke AD , Frederick M , Collen D , et al .
Hemorrhagic events during therapy with recombinant tissue - type plasminogen activator , heparin , and aspirin for acute myocardial infarction : results of the thrombolysis in myocardial infarction ( TIMI ) , phase II trial .
Ann Int Med 1991 ; 115 : 256 – 65 .
Cathflo ® Activase ® ( Alteplase ) Manufactured by : Genentech , Inc .
A Member of the Roche Group 1 DNA Way South San Francisco , CA 94080 - 4990 US License No . 1048 FDA Approval Date January 2005 Revised : 02 / 2019 Cathflo ® Activase ® is a trademark of Genentech , Inc . © 2019 Genentech , Inc .
Representative sample of labeling ( see the HOW SUPPLIED section for complete listing ) : PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg Vial Carton NDC 50242 - 041 - 64 US License No . : 1048 cathflo ® activase ® ( ALTEPLASE ) 2 mg For Use in Central Venous Access Devices Rx only KEEP REFRIGERATED 10165659 Genentech [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
