Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Chlorhexidine gluconate solution 4 . 0 % w / v Antiseptic Uses • antimicrobial skin cleanser helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • for skin wound and general skin cleansing • surgical hand scrub • personnel hand wash • preoperative skin preparation Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredients in this preparation • as a patient preoperative skin preparation of the head or face • in contact with the meninges • in the genital area • on wounds that involve more than the superficial layers of skin When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures , or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if contact occurs in any of these areas , rinse with cold water right away Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs and lasts for 72 hours . These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • skin wound and general skin cleansing .
Thoroughly rinse the area to be cleansed with water .
Apply the minimum amount of HIBICLENS necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently .
Rinse thoroughly .
• surgical hand scrub .
Wet hands and forearms with water .
Scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of HIBICLENS with a brush .
Rinse thoroughly under running water .
Repeat .
Dry thoroughly .
• personnel hand wash .
Wet hands with water .
Dispense about 5 mL of HIBICLENS into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds .
Rinse and dry thoroughly .
• preoperative skin preparation .
Apply HIBICLENS liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes .
Dry with a sterile towel .
Repeat .
Dry with a sterile towel .
Other information store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients fragrance , isopropyl alcohol 4 % w / v , purified water , Red 40 , and other ingredients in a nonalkaline base .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 843 - 8497 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 236 mL Bottle Label NDC 54868 - 3046 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] HIBICLENS ® ( Chlorhexidine Gluconate solution 4 . 0 % w / v ) Antiseptic / Antimicrobial Skin Cleanser HIBICLENS ® prevents skin infections thereby reducing the risk of cross - infection .
HIBICLENS ® has antiseptic activity and a persistent antimicrobial effect with rapid bactericidal activity against a wide range of microorganisms .
MÖLNLYCKE ® HEALTH CARE 8 Fl .
oz .
( 236 mL ) Distributed by Mölnlycke Health Care US , LLC Norcross , GA 30092 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
