Drug Facts Active ingredient Stannous Fluoride 0 . 454 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Anticavity , Antigingivitis , Antisensitivity Uses • aids in the prevention of cavities • helps prevent gingivitis • helps interfere with harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact Warnings When using this product for sensitivity , do not use longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist .
Stop use and ask a dentist if the sensitivity problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth , or increasing spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristled toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) or as recommended by a dentist .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
• do not swallow .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a dentist .
Other information • products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate toothbrushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
• this Colgate product is specially formulated to help prevent staining .
Inactive ingredients Water , Hydrated Silica , Sorbitol , Glycerin , PEG - 12 , Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate , Flavor , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Sodium Citrate , Arginine , Zinc Phosphate , PVM / MA Copolymer , Cellulose Gum , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Sodium Saccharin , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Xanthan Gum , Citric Acid , Sucralose , Titanium Dioxide .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 468 - 6502 Dist .
by : COLGATE - PALMOLIVE COMPANY New York , NY 10022 U . S . A . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 85 g Tube Carton Colgate ® Anticavity , Antigingivitis and Antisensitivity Toothpaste Total Plaque PRO RELEASE Dissolves & Lifts Away Gum Harming Plaque with Daily Brushing with SMART FOAM SCIENTIST DEVELOPED CLINICALLY PROVEN WHITENING PASTE NET WT 3 . 0 OZ ( 85 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
