Warnings and Precautions , Malignant Neoplasms ( 5 . 11 ) 04 / 2022 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol is an estrogen / progestin COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Take tablets in the order directed on the Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Start Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are dispensed in an Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets should be started on a Sunday ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
Instruct patients to take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets once a day by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets should be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
For patient instructions regarding missed pills , see FDA - approved patient labeling .
2 . 2 How to Take Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product .
Tablet Color : • • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol active tablets are light blue to blue ( Day 1 to Day 84 ) .
• • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol inactive tablets are white to off – white ( Day 85 to Day 91 ) .
Sunday Start : For each 91 - day course , take in the following order : • • Take the first light blue to blue tablet ( 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol ) on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , take the tablet on that day .
Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first 7 days of treatment .
• • Take subsequent light blue to blue tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 84 days .
• • Take one white to off – white tablet ( inert ) daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the white to off – white tablets are taken .
• • Begin the next and all subsequent 91 - day courses of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol without interruption on the same day of the week ( i . e . , Sunday ) on which the patient began her first dose .
Follow the same schedule as the initial 91 - day course : a light blue to blue tablet once a day for 84 days , and a white to off – white tablet once a day for 7 days .
If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack , instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception until she has taken a light blue to blue tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
Switching to levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started .
Switching from another contraceptive method to levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets : • • Transdermal patch • • On the day when the next application would have been scheduled .
• • Vaginal ring • • On the day when the next insertion would have been scheduled .
• • Injection • • On the day when the next injection would have been scheduled .
• • Intrauterine contraceptive ( IUD ) • • On the day of removal .
• • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient ' s menstrual cycle , additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) is needed for the first seven days of the first 91 - day course .
• • Implant • • On the day of removal .
Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - approved patient labeling .
Starting Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are started immediately .
• • If levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient should use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of her first 91 - day course of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Second - trimester • • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ' s first 91 - day course of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and FDA - approved Patient Labeling ] .
Starting Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol tablets after Childbirth • • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is not recommended for use in lactating women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
• • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) , and FDA - approved Patient Labeling ] .
Tablet Dispenser Instructions : • • The Tablet Dispenser consists of 3 blister cards that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week , or 91 - day , cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 84 light blue to blue pills ( active pills with hormones ) and 7 white to off - white pills ( inactive pills without hormone ) .
• • The blister card 1 and 2 each contain 28 light blue to blue pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) .
See Figure A . Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] The blister card 3 contains 35 pills consisting of 28 light blue to blue pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) and 7 white to off - white pills ( 1 row of 7 pills ) .
See Figure B . Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Advise the patient to remove the first pill in the upper left corner by pushing down on the pill .
The pill will come out through a hole in the back of the Tablet Dispenser .
• • Advise the patient to wait 24 hours to take the next pill , and continue to take one pill each day until all the pills have been taken .
• • Advise the patient , after taking the last white to off - white pill , to start taking the first light blue to blue pill from a new Tablet Dispenser the very next day , regardless of when their period started .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets • • If one active tablet ( light blue to blue ) is missed in Days 1 through 84 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Take the next tablet at the regular time and continue taking one tablet a day until the 91 - day course is finished .
• • If two consecutive active tablets ( light blue to blue ) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Take 2 tablets on the day remembered and 2 tablets the next day .
Then continue taking one tablet a day until the 91 - day course is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing 2 tablets .
• • If three or more consecutive active tablets ( light blue to blue ) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Do not take the missed tablets .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the 91 - day course is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) must be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing 3 tablets .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a light blue to blue tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - approved patient labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , USP are available as round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with ' E1 ' on one side and plain on the other , packaged in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets in the following order : • • 84 light blue to blue tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , USP and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , USP .
• • 7 white to off - white inert tablets debossed with ' E2 ' on one side and plain on the other .
Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , USP consists of 84 round , light blue to blue tablets containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , USP and 0 . 03 mg of ethinyl estradiol , USP and 7 round , white to off - white inert tablets .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Thrombotic disorders and other vascular problems : Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Liver disease : Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Bleeding irregularities and amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • • Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• • Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• • If feasible , stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during and following prolonged immobilization .
• • Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• • The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of COCs and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
• • Use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis than conventional monthly COCs containing the same strength synthetic estrogens and progestins ( an additional 9 weeks of exposure per year ) .
In the clinical trial , one case of pulmonary embolism was reported .
Postmarketing adverse reactions of VTE have been reported in women who used levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
• • Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
Stroke has been reported in women associated with the use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• • Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ seeContraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains obmitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentration of progestin .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Bleeding and / or spotting that occurs at any time while taking the first 84 tablets of each extended - cycle regimen is considered " unscheduled " bleeding / spotting .
Bleeding that occurs during the time a woman takes the seven white to off - white inert tablets is considered " scheduled " bleeding .
Unscheduled and Scheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first 3 months of use .
If unscheduled bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles on levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different COC .
Before prescribing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , advise the woman to weigh the convenience of fewer scheduled menses ( 4 per year instead of 13 per year ) against the inconvenience of increased unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
The clinical trial of the efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol ( 91 - day cycles ) in preventing pregnancy also assessed scheduled and unscheduled bleeding .
The participants in the study were composed primarily of women who had used oral contraceptives previously as opposed to new users .
Women with a history of breakthrough bleeding / spotting ≥ 10 consecutive days on oral contraceptives were excluded from the study .
More levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol subjects , compared to subjects on the comparator 28 - day cycle regimen , discontinued prematurely for unacceptable bleeding ( 7 . 7 % [ levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol ] vs . 1 . 8 % [ 28 - day cycle regimen ] ) .
Unscheduled bleeding and unscheduled spotting decreased over successive 91 - day cycles .
Table 3 below presents the number of days with unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting for each respective 91 - day cycle .
Table 3 : Number of Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting Days per 91 - day Cycle Cycle ( N ) Days of Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting per 84 - Day Interval Median Days Per Subject - Month Mean Q1 Median Q3 1 ( 446 ) 15 . 1 3 12 23 3 2 ( 368 ) 11 . 6 2 6 17 . 5 1 . 5 3 ( 309 ) 10 . 6 1 6 15 1 . 5 4 ( 282 ) 8 . 8 1 4 14 1 Q1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding / spotting Table 4 shows the percentages of women with ≥ 7 days and ≥ 20 days of unscheduled spotting and / or bleeding in the levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol and the 28 - day cycle treatment groups .
Table 4 : Percentage of Subjects with Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting a Based on spotting and / or bleeding on days 1 to 84 of a 91 day cycle in the levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol subjects and days 1 to 21 of a 28 day cycle over 4 cycles in the 28 - day dosing regimen .
Days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting Percentage of Subjects a Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol Cycle 1 ( N = 385 ) Cycle 4 ( N = 261 ) ≥ 7 days 65 % 42 % ≥ 20 days 35 % 15 % 28 - day regimen Cycles 1 to 4 ( N = 194 ) Cycles 10 to 13 ( N = 158 ) ≥ 7 days 38 % 39 % ≥ 20 days 6 % 4 % Total days of bleeding and / or spotting ( scheduled plus unscheduled ) were similar over one year of treatment for levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol subjects and subjects on the 28 - day cycle regimen .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who are not pregnant and use levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol may experience amenorrhea .
Based on data from the clinical trial , amenorrhea occurred in approximately 0 . 8 % of women during Cycle 1 , 1 . 2 % of women during Cycle 2 , 3 . 7 % of women during Cycle 3 , and 3 . 4 % of women during Cycle 4 .
Because women using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol will likely have scheduled bleeding only 4 times per year , rule out pregnancy at the time of any missed menstrual period .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping COCs , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Depression associated with the use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol has been reported .
Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol if severe depression recurs .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ seePostmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COC use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated health care .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC - related cholestasis .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to develop chloasma should avoid prolonged exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • • Irregular uterine bleeding • • Nausea • • Breast tenderness • • Headache The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) reported during clinical trials were headache , menorrhagia , nausea , dysmenorrhea , acne , migraine , breast tenderness , weight increased , and depression .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA at 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The clinical trial that evaluated the safety and efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol was a 12 - month , randomized , multicenter , open - label study , which enrolled women aged 18 to 40 , of whom 456 took at least one dose of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol ( 345 . 14 woman - years of exposure ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : 14 . 9 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % of women ) leading to discontinuation in the levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol group were menorrhagia ( 5 . 7 % ) , mood swings ( 1 . 9 % ) , weight / appetite increase ( 1 . 5 % ) , and acne ( 1 . 3 % ) .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of women ) : headache ( 20 . 6 % ) , menorrhagia ( 11 . 6 % ) , nausea ( 7 . 5 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 5 . 7 % ) , acne ( 4 . 6 % ) , migraine ( 4 . 4 % ) , breast tenderness ( 3 . 5 % ) , weight increased ( 3 . 1 % ) , and depression ( 2 . 1 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : pulmonary embolus , cholecystitis .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 to 1 . 12 ( Figure C ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure C ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 to 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 to 10 years of COC use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal distension , vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions : chest pain , fatigue , malaise , edema peripheral , pain Immune system disorder : hypersensitivity reactions , including itching , rash , and angioedema Investigations : blood pressure increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : muscle spasms , pain in extremity Nervous system disorders : dizziness , loss of consciousness Psychiatric disorders : insomnia Reproductive and breast disorders : dysmenorrhea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : alopecia Vascular disorders : thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary thrombosis [ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes ( for example CYP3A4 ) may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ' s wort .
Interactions between oral contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Colesevelam : Colesevelam , a bile acid sequestrant , given together with a COC , has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE .
The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , temazepam and lamotrigine .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Vaccine ( HCV ) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interactions with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Nursing Mothers : Advise use of another contraceptive method .
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
Do not administer COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding as a test for pregnancy .
Do not use COCs during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception , when possible , until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol have not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol have not been studied in women with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , USP are an extended - cycle combination oral contraceptive consisting of 84 light blue to blue active tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , USP , a synthetic progestin and 0 . 03 mg of ethinyl estradiol , USP , an estrogen and 7 white to off - white inert tablets ( without hormones ) .
The structural formulas for the active components are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel , USP C21H28O2 MW : 312 . 45 Levonorgestrel , USP is 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) - , ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol , USP C20H24O2 MW : 296 . 4 Ethinyl Estradiol , USP is 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - .
• • Each light blue to blue active tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , hypromellose , anhydrous lactose , talc , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , triacetin , FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake .
• • Each white to off - white inert tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , anhydrous lactose , microcrystalline cellulose , hypromellose , polacrilin potassium , magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption No specific investigation of the absolute bioavailability of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol in humans has been conducted .
However , literature indicates that levonorgestrel is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability nearly 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
EE is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the bioavailability of EE is approximately 43 % .
Following continuous dosing with once - daily administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , plasma concentrations of levonorgestrel and EE reached steady - state within 7 days .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic parameters for levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol under fasting conditions in normal healthy women following once - daily administration of one levonorgestrel / EE combination tablet for 10 days are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Mean ± SD Pharmacokinetic Parameters Under Fasting Conditions in Healthy Women Following 10 Days Administration of One Tablet of Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol ( n = 44 ) a Cavg = AUC0 to 24 / 24 Analyte AUC0 to 24 Cmax Cmin Cavga Tmax Levonorgestrel 54 . 6 ± 16 . 5 ng * hr / mL 5 ± 1 . 5 ng / mL 1 . 6 ± 0 . 5 ng / mL 2 . 3 ± 0 . 7 ng / mL 1 . 4 ± 0 . 7 hours Ethinyl estradiol 935 . 5 ± 346 . 9 pg * hr / mL 106 . 1 ± 41 . 2 pg / mL 18 . 5 ± 9 . 4 pg / mL 38 . 9 ± 14 . 4 pg / mL 1 . 6 ± 0 . 6 hours Food Effect The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel and EE absorption following oral administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel and EE are reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg and 4 . 3 L / kg , respectively .
Levonorgestrel is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
EE is about 95 to 97 % bound to serum albumin .
EE does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis , which leads to decreased levonorgestrel clearance .
Following repeated daily dosing of levonorgestrel / EE oral contraceptives , levonorgestrel plasma concentrations accumulate more than predicted based on single - dose pharmacokinetics , due in part , to increased SHBG levels that are induced by EE , and a possible reduction in hepatic metabolic capacity .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate and to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16β - hydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
First - pass metabolism of EE involves formation of EE - 3 - sulfate in the gut wall , followed by 2 - hydroxylation of a portion of the remaining untransformed EE by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Levels of CYP3A4 vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of EE hydroxylation .
Hydroxylation at the 4 - , 6 - , and 16 - positions may also occur , although to a much lesser extent than 2 - hydroxylation .
The various hydroxylated metabolites are subject to further methylation and / or conjugation .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
The terminal elimination half - life for levonorgestrel after a single dose of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol was about 30 hours .
EE is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and it undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
The terminal elimination half - life of EE after a single dose of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol was found to be about 15 hours .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a 12 - month , multicenter , randomized , open - label clinical trial , 456 women aged 18 to 40 were studied to assess the safety and efficacy of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , completing 809 91 - day cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of those enrolled was : Caucasian ( 77 % ) , African - American ( 11 % ) , Hispanic ( 7 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 3 % ) .
There were no exclusions for body mass index ( BMI ) or weight .
The weight range of those women treated was 84 to 304 pounds , with a mean weight of 157 pounds and a median weight of 147 pounds .
Among the women in the trial , 63 % were current or recent hormonal contraceptive users , 29 % were prior users ( who had used hormonal contraceptives in the past but not in the 6 months prior to enrollment ) , and 8 % were new starts .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in the 397 women aged 18 to 35 years was 1 . 98 pregnancies per 100 women - years of use ( 95 % CI : 0 . 54 to 5 . 03 ) , based on 4 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and within 14 days after the last combination pill .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of back - up contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets , USP 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg are available in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets : • • 84 light blue to blue tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , USP and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , USP , and 7 white to off - white inert tablets .
The active light blue to blue tablets are round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with ' E1 ' on one side and plain on the other .
• • The inert tablets are white to off - white , round , biconvex , uncoated tablets debossed with ' E2 ' on one side and plain on the other .
NDC 68462 - 672 - 95 – 1 carton containing 3 foil pouches .
Inside each pouch is 1 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser containing 84 light blue to blue tablets and 7 white to off - white tablets .
16 . 2 Storage Conditions • • Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• • Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients on the following information : • • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• • Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event tablets are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• • Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• • COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Women who start on COCs postpartum , and who have not yet had a period , should use an additional method of contraception until they have taken a light blue to blue tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • Amenorrhea may occur .
Because women using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets will likely have scheduled bleeding only 4 times per year , rule out pregnancy at the time of any missed menstrual period [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403513 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma - us . com June 2022 Patient Information Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol ( LEE - voe - nor - JES - trel and ETH - i - nil ES - tra - DYE - ol ) Tablets , USP What is the most important information I should know about levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
Do not use levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablet is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of clinical studies , about 1 to 5 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
Do not take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if you : • • smoke and are over 35 years of age • • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat • • had a stroke • • had a heart attack • • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • • have liver problems , including liver tumors • • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood .
• • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • • are pregnant • • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones If any of these conditions happen while you are taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , stop taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradioltablets ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
• • Like pregnancy , levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
• Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • ofirst start taking birth control pills • orestart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • • • leg pain that will not go away • • sudden severe shortness of breath • • sudden change in vision or blindness • • chest pain • • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • • trouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • • liver problems , including : • • rare liver tumors • • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• • high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• • gallbladder problems • • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • • irregular or unusual vaginal bleeding and spotting between your menstrual periods , especially during the first 3 months of taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
• • depression • • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
• • dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradioltablets ?
• • headache ( migraine ) • • heavier or longer periods , pain with periods • • nausea • • acne • • breast tenderness • • increase in weight These are not all the possible side effects of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
• • If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Certain blood tests may be affected by levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
• • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
• • Store levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Protect from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradioltablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets for a condition for which they were not prescribed .
Do not give levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
When you take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , which has a 91 - day extended dosing cycle , you should have 4 scheduled periods a year ( bleeding when you are taking the 7 white to off - white pills ) .
However , you will probably have more bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods than if you were using a birth control pill with a 28 - day dosing cycle .
During the first levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets 91 - day treatment cycle , about 1 in 3 women may have 20 or more days of unplanned bleeding or spotting .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease with time .
Do not stop taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 days in a row or if the bleeding is heavy , call your healthcare provider .
What are the ingredients in levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
Active ingredients : Each light blue to blue active tablet contains levonorgestrel , USP and ethinyl estradiol , USP .
Inactive ingredients : Each light blue to blue active tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , hypromellose , anhydrous lactose , talc , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , triacetin , FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake .
Each white to off - white inert tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , anhydrous lactose , microcrystalline cellulose , hypromellose , polacrilin potassium , magnesium stearate .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403513 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma - us . com June 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol ( LEE - voe - nor - JES - trel and aETH - i - nil ES - tra - DYE - ol ) Tablets , USP Important Information about taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets • • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your pill dispenser .
• • Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• • If you have trouble remembering to take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , talk to your healthcare provider .
• • When you first start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• • You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• • Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see What should I do if I miss any levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• • It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets according to directions , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
• • If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 to 4 hours of taking a light blue to blue pill , take another light blue to blue pill as soon as possible .
Continue taking one pill a day until the 91 - day course is finished .
• • If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms or spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• • Stop taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms or spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets : • • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
• • Look at your Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
Your Tablet Dispenser consists of 3 blister cards that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week or 91 - day cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 84 light blue to blue and 7 white to off - white pills .
Blister cards 1 and 2 each contain 28 light blue to blue pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) .
See Figure A . Blister card 3 contains 35 pills consisting of 28 light blue to blue pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) and 7 white to off - white pills ( 1 row of 7 pills ) .
See Figure B . Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Also find : • • Where on the first blister card in the pack to start taking pills ( upper left corner ) and • • In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks ) • • Be sure you have ready at all times another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
When should I start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
If you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • • Take the first light blue to blue pill on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the first light blue to blue pill that same day .
• • Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first light blue to blue pill until the next Sunday ( first 7 days ) .
If you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and you are switching from another birth control pill : • • Start your new levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• • Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and previously used a vaginal ring : • • Start using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets on the day you would have reapplied the next ring .
If you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradioltablets and previously used a transdermal patch : • • Start using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets on the day you would have started a new cycle ( first patch application ) .
If you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradioltablets and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • • Start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets on the day of removal of your implant , or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • • Start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• • You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days that you take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , " When should I start taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ? "
above .
Follow these instructions for a Sunday Start .
Instructions for using your levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser : Sunday Start : • • Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
To remove your pill from the dispenser , press the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
See Figure C . Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill " 1 " that same day .
• • Take 1 pill at about the same time every day until you have taken the last pill in the tablet dispenser .
• • After taking the last white to off - white pill on Day 91 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first light blue to blue pill from a new Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser on the very next day ( this should be a Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• • Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
What should I do if I miss any levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ?
If you miss 1 light blue to blue pill , follow these steps : • • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• • Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• • You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 light blue to blue pills in a row , follow these steps : • • Take 2 pills on the day you remember and 2 pills the next day .
• • Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• • You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you miss two pills .
You must use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you miss 3 or more light blue to blue pills in a row , follow these steps : • • Do not take the missed pills .
Keep taking 1 pill every day until you have completed all of the remaining pills in the pack .
For example , if you start taking the pill on Thursday , take the pill under " Thursday " and do not take the missed pills .
You may have bleeding during the week following the missed pills .
• • You could become pregnant if you have sex during the days of missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
You must use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up when you miss pills and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you do not have your period when you are taking the white to off - white pills , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403513 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma - us . com This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
June 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68462 - 672 - 95 Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg This product ( like all oral contraceptives ) is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
