DESCRIPTION : The active ingredient in DIPENTUM Capsules ( olsalazine sodium ) is the sodium salt of a salicylate , disodium 3 , 3 ' - azobis ( 6 - hydroxybenzoate ) a compound that is effectively bioconverted to 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( 5 - ASA ) , which has anti - inflammatory activity in ulcerative colitis .
Its empirical formula is C14H8N2Na2O6 with a molecular weight of 346 . 21 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Olsalazine sodium is a yellow crystalline powder , which melts with decomposition at 240 ° C .
It is the sodium salt of a weak acid , soluble in water and DMSO , and practically insoluble in ethanol , chloroform , and ether .
Olsalazine sodium has acceptable stability under acidic or basic conditions .
DIPENTUM is supplied in hard gelatin capsules for oral administration .
The inert ingredient in each 250 mg capsule of olsalazine sodium is magnesium stearate .
The capsule shell contains the following inactive ingredients : black iron oxide , caramel , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : After oral administration , olsalazine has limited systemic bioavailability .
Based on oral and intravenous dosing studies , approximately 2 . 4 % of a single 1 . 0 g oral dose is absorbed .
Less than 1 % of olsalazine is recovered in the urine .
The remaining 98 to 99 % of an oral dose will reach the colon , where each molecule is rapidly converted into two molecules of 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( 5 - ASA ) by colonic bacteria and the low prevailing redox potential found in this environment .
The liberated 5 - ASA is absorbed slowly resulting in very high local concentrations in the colon .
The conversion of olsalazine to mesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) in the colon is similar to that of sulfasalazine , which is converted into sulfapyridine and mesalamine .
It is thought that the mesalamine component is therapeutically active in ulcerative colitis ( A . K . Azad - Kahn et al , LANCET , 2 : 892 - 895 , 1977 ) .
The usual dose of sulfasalazine for maintenance of remission in patients with ulcerative colitis is 2 grams daily , which would provide approximately 0 . 8 gram of mesalamine to the colon .
More than 0 . 9 gram of mesalamine would usually be made available in the colon from 1 gram of olsalazine .
The mechanism of action of mesalamine ( and sulfasalazine ) is unknown , but appears to be topical rather than systemic .
Mucosal production of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolites , both through the cyclooxygenase pathways ( i . e . , prostanoids ) and through the lipoxygenase pathways ( i . e . , leukotrienes [ LTs ] and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids [ HETEs ] ) is increased in patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease , and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin ( PG ) production in the colon .
Pharmacokinetics : The pharmacokinetics of olsalazine are similar in both healthy volunteers and in patients with ulcerative colitis .
Maximum serum concentrations of olsalazine appear after approximately 1 hour and , even after a 1 . 0 g single dose , are low ( e . g . , 1 . 6 to 6 . 2 µmol / L ) .
Olsalazine has a very short serum half - life , approximately 0 . 9 hour .
Olsalazine is more than 99 % bound to plasma proteins .
It does not interfere with protein binding of warfarin .
The urinary recovery of olsalazine is below 1 % .
Total recovery of oral 14 C - labeled olsalazine in animals and humans ranges from 90 to 97 % .
Approximately 0 . 1 % of an oral dose of olsalazine is metabolized in the liver to olsalazine - O - sulfate ( olsalazine - S ) .
Olsalazine - S , in contrast to olsalazine has a half - life of 7 days .
Olsalazine - S accumulates to steady state within 2 to 3 weeks .
Patients on daily doses of 1 . 0 g olsalazine for 2 to 4 years show a stable plasma concentration of olsalazine - S ( 3 . 3 to 12 . 4 µmol / L ) .
Olsalazine - S is more than 99 % bound to plasma proteins .
Its long half - life is mainly due to slow dissociation from the protein binding site .
Less than 1 % of both olsalazine and olsalazine - S appears undissociated in plasma .
5 - aminosalicylic acid ( 5 - ASA ) : Serum concentrations of 5 - ASA are detected after 4 to 8 hours .
The peak levels of 5 - ASA after an oral dose of 1 . 0 g olsalazine are low ( i . e . , 0 to 4 . 3 µmol / L ) .
Of the total 5 - ASA found in the urine , more than 90 % is in the form of N - acetyl - 5 - ASA ( Ac - 5 - ASA ) .
Only small amounts of 5 - ASA are detected .
N - acetyl - 5 - ASA ( Ac - 5 - ASA ) , the major metabolite of 5 - ASA found in plasma and urine , is acetylated ( deactivated ) in at least two sites , the colonic epithelium and the liver .
Ac - 5 - ASA is found in the serum , with peak values of 1 . 7 to 8 . 7 µmol / L after a single 1 . 0 g dose .
Approximately 20 % of the total 5 - ASA is recovered in the urine , where it is found almost exclusively as Ac - 5 - ASA .
The remaining 5 - ASA is partially acetylated and is excreted in the feces .
From fecal dialysis , the concentration of 5 - ASA in the colon following olsalazine has been calculated to be 18 to 49 mmol / L .
No accumulation of 5 - ASA or Ac - 5 - ASA in plasma has been detected .
5 - ASA and Ac - 5 - ASA are 74 and 81 % , respectively , bound to plasma proteins .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY : Preclinical subacute and chronic toxicity studies in rats have shown the kidney to be the major target organ of olsalazine toxicity .
At an oral daily dose of 400 mg / kg or higher , olsalazine treatment produced nephritis and tubular necrosis in a 4 - week study ; interstitial nephritis and tubular calcinosis in a 6 - month study , and renal fibrosis , mineralization , and transitional cell hyperplasia in a 1 - year study .
CLINICAL STUDIES : Two controlled studies have demonstrated the efficacy of olsalazine as maintenance therapy in patients with ulcerative colitis .
In the first , ulcerative colitis patients in remission were randomized to olsalazine 500 mg B . I . D . or placebo , and relapse rates for a six month period of time were compared .
For the 52 patients randomized to olsalazine , 12 relapses occurred , while for the 49 placebo patients , 22 relapses occurred .
This difference in relapse rates was significant ( p < 0 . 02 ) .
In the second study , 164 ulcerative colitis patients in remission were randomized to olsalazine 500 mg B . I . D . or sulfasalazine 1 gram B . I . D . , and relapse rates were compared after six months .
The relapse rate for olsalazine was 19 . 5 % while that for sulfasalazine was 12 . 2 % , a non - significant difference .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Olsalazine is indicated for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in patients who are intolerant of sulfasalazine .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to olsalazine , other salicylates , or any of the excipients .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Overall , approximately 17 % of subjects receiving olsalazine in clinical studies reported diarrhea sometime during therapy .
This diarrhea resulted in withdrawal of treatment in 6 % of patients .
This diarrhea appears to be dose related , although it may be difficult to distinguish from the underlying symptoms of the disease .
Exacerbation of the symptoms of colitis thought to have been caused by mesalamine or sulfasalazine has been noted .
Information for Patients : Patients should be instructed to take olsalazine with food .
The drug should be taken in evenly divided doses .
Patients should be informed that about 17 % of subjects receiving olsalazine during clinical studies reported diarrhea sometime during therapy .
If diarrhea occurs , patients should contact their physician .
Drug Interactions : The co - administration of salicylates and low molecular weight heparins or heparinoids may result in an increased risk of bleeding ( i . e . , hematomas ) following neuraxial anesthesia .
Salicylates should be discontinued prior to the initiation of a low molecular weight heparin or heparinoid .
If this is not possible , it is recommended to monitor patients closely for bleeding .
Increased prothrombin time in patients taking concomitant warfarin has been reported .
The co - administration of olsalazine and 6 - mercaptopurine or thioguanine may result in an increased risk of myelosuppression .
If co - administered with 6 - mercaptopurine , it is recommended to use the lowest possible doses of each drug and to monitor the patient , especially for leukopenia .
In case of co - administration with thioguanine , careful monitoring of blood counts is recommended .
It is recommended not to give salicylates for six weeks after the varicella vaccine to avoid a possible increased risk of developing Reye ’ s syndrome .
Drug / LaboratoryTest Interactions : None known .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a two year oral rat carcinogenicity study , olsalazine was tested in male and female Wistar rats at daily doses of 200 , 400 , and 800 mg / kg / day ( approximately 10 to 40 times the human maintenance dose , based on a patient weight of 50 kg and a human dose of 1 g ) .
Urinary bladder transitional cell carcinomas were found in three male rats ( 6 % , p = 0 . 022 , exact trend test ) receiving 40 times the human dose and were not found in untreated male controls .
In the same study , urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma and papilloma occurred in 2 untreated control female rats ( 2 % ) .
No such tumors were found in any of the female rats treated at doses up to 40 times the human dose .
In an eighteen month oral mouse carcinogenicity study , olsalazine was tested in male and female CD - 1 mice at daily doses of 500 , 1000 , and 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 25 to 100 times the human maintenance dose ) .
Liver hemangiosarcomata were found in two male mice ( 4 % ) receiving olsalazine at 100 times the human dose , while no such tumor occurred in the other treated male mice groups or any of the treated female mice .
The observed incidence of this tumor is within the 4 % incidence in historical controls .
Olsalazine was not mutagenic in in vitro Ames tests , mouse lymphoma cell mutation assays , human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration tests , or the in vivo rat bone marrow cell chromosomal aberration test .
Olsalazine in a dose range of 100 to 400 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 to 20 times the human maintenance dose ) did not influence the fertility of male or female rats .
The oligospermia and infertility in men associated with sulfasalazine have not been reported with olsalazine .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Olsalazine has been shown to produce fetal developmental toxicity as indicated by reduced fetal weights , retarded ossifications , and immaturity of the fetal visceral organs when given during organogenesis to pregnant rats in doses 5 to 20 times the human dose ( 100 to 400 mg / kg ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Olsalazine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Small amounts of the active metabolite of olsalazine ( 5 - ASA ) may pass into breast milk .
Harmful infant effects ( diarrhea ) have been reported when 5 - ASA was used during breastfeeding .
Unless the benefit of the treatment outweighs the risks , olsalazine should not be taken by breast - feeding women , or patients should be advised to discontinue breastfeeding if using olsalazine .
Oral administration of olsalazine to lactating rats in doses 5 to 20 times the human dose produced growth retardation in their pups .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in a pediatric population have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of DIPENTUM did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , elderly patients should be treated with caution due to the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , co - existence of other disease , as well as concomitant drug therapy .
Severe Allergies and / or Asthma : Patients with severe allergies or asthma should be monitored for signs of worsening symptoms .
Renal : Patients with impaired renal function should be monitored .
Although renal abnormalities were not reported in clinical trials with olsalazine , there have been rare reports from post - marketing experience ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Postmarketing ) .
Therefore , the possibility of renal tubular damage due to absorbed mesalamine or its n - acetylated metabolite , as noted in the ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY section must be kept in mind , particularly for patients with pre - existing renal disease .
In these patients , monitoring with urinalysis , BUN , and creatinine determinations is advised .
Hepatic : Patients with impaired hepatic function should be monitored ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Postmarketing ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 380 - 3276 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Olsalazine has been evaluated in ulcerative colitis patients in remission , as well as those with acute disease .
Both sulfasalazine - tolerant and intolerant patients have been studied in controlled clinical trials .
Overall , 10 . 4 % of patients discontinued olsalazine because of an adverse experience compared with 6 . 7 % of placebo patients .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions leading to treatment withdrawal were diarrhea or loose stools ( olsalazine 5 . 9 % ; placebo 4 . 8 % ) , abdominal pain , and rash or itching ( slightly more than 1 % of patients receiving olsalazine ) .
Other adverse reactions to olsalazine leading to withdrawal occurred in fewer than 1 % of patients ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Resulting In Withdrawal From Controlled Studies Total Olsalazine ( N = 441 ) Placebo ( N = 208 ) Diarrhea / Loose Stools 26 ( 5 . 9 % ) 10 ( 4 . 8 % ) Nausea 3 2 Abdominal Pain 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) 0 Rash / Itching 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) 0 Headache 3 0 Heartburn 2 0 Rectal Bleeding 1 0 Insomina 1 0 Dizziness 1 0 Anorexia 1 0 Light Headedness 1 0 Depression 1 0 Miscellaneous 4 ( 0 . 9 % ) 3 ( 1 . 4 % ) Total Number of Patients Withdrawn 46 ( 10 . 4 % ) 14 ( 6 . 7 % ) For those controlled studies , the comparative incidences of adverse reactions reported in 1 % or more patients treated with olsalazine or placebo are provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 Comparative Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Effects Reported By One Percent Or More of Ulcerative Colitis Patients Treated With Olsalazine Or Placebo in Double Blind Controlled StudiesAdverse Event Olsalazine ( N = 441 ) % Placebo ( N = 208 ) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea 11 . 1 6 . 7 Abdominal Pain / Cramps 10 . 1 7 . 2 Nausea 5 . 0 3 . 9 Dyspepsia 4 . 0 4 . 3 Bloating 1 . 5 1 . 4 Vomiting 1 . 0 - Stomatitis 1 . 0 - Increased Blood in Stool - 3 . 4 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Anorexia 1 . 3 1 . 9 Nervous System Disorders Headache 5 . 0 4 . 8 Insomnia - 2 . 4 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue / Drowsiness / Lethargy 1 . 8 2 . 9 Psychiatric Disorders Depression 1 . 5 - Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Vertigo / Dizziness 1 . 0 - Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 2 . 3 1 . 4 Itching 1 . 3 - Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia / Joint Pain 4 . 0 2 . 9 Infections and Infestations Upper Respiratory Infection 1 . 5 - Over 2 , 500 patients have been treated with olsalazine in various controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies .
In these as well as in post - marketing experience , olsalazine was administered mainly to patients intolerant to sulfasalazine .
There have been rare reports of the following adverse effects in patients receiving olsalazine .
These were often difficult to distinguish from possible symptoms of the underlying disease or from the effects of prior and / or concomitant therapy .
A causal relationship to the drug has not been demonstrated for some of these reactions .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Anemia , Eosinophilia , Hemolytic anemia , Interstitial pulmonary disease , Leukopenia , Lymphopenia , Neutropenia , Reticulocytosis , Thrombocytopenia Cardiac Disorders : Chest pains , Heart block second degree , Myocarditis , Palpitations , Pericarditis , Peripheral edema , Shortness of breath , Tachycardia A patient who developed thyroid disease 9 days after starting DIPENTUM was given propranolol and radioactive iodine and subsequently developed shortness of breath and nausea .
The patient died 5 days later with signs and symptoms of acute diffuse myocarditis .
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Tinnitus Eye Disorders : Dry eyes , Vision blurred , Watery eyes Gastrointestinal Disorders : Abdominal pain ( upper ) , Diarrhea with dehydration , Dry mouth , Epigastric discomfort , Flare in symptoms , Flatulence , Increased blood in stool , Pancreatitis , Rectal bleeding , Rectal discomfort In a double - blind , placebo - controlled study , increased frequency and severity of diarrhea were reported in patients randomized to olsalazine 500 mg B . I . D . with concomitant pelvic radiation .
Rare cases of granulomatous hepatitis and nonspecific , reactive hepatitis have been reported in patients receiving olsalazine .
Additionally , a patient developed mild cholestatic hepatitis during treatment with sulfasalazine and experienced the same symptoms two weeks later after the treatment was changed to olsalazine .
Withdrawal of olsalazine led to complete recovery in these cases .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Fever chills , Hot flashes , Irritability , Rigors Immune System Disorders : Bronchospasm , Erythema nodosum Laboratory : ALT ( SGPT ) or AST ( SGOT ) elevated beyond the normal range .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Muscle cramps Nervous System Disorders : Insomnia , Paraesthesia , Tremors Psychiatric Disorders : Mood swings Renal and Urinary Disorders : Dysuria , Hematuria , Interstitial nephritis , Nephrotic syndrome , Proteinuria , Urinary frequency Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Impotence , Menorrhagia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Alopecia , Erythema , Photosensitivity reaction Vascular Disorders : Hypertension , Orthostatic hypotension Postmarketing The following events have been identified during post - approval use of products that contain ( or are metabolized to ) mesalamine in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to mesalamine : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Aplastic anemia , Pancytopenia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Pyrexia Hepatobiliary Disorders : Hepatic enzyme increased , Hepatitis , Increased bilirubin Reports of hepatotoxicity , including elevated liver function tests ( SGOT / AST , SGPT / ALT , GGT , LDH , alkaline phosphatase , bilirubin ) , jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , cirrhosis , and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure .
Some of these cases were fatal .
One case of Kawasaki - like syndrome , which included hepatic function changes , was also reported .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Myalgia Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dyspnoea , Interstitial lung disease Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Angioneurotic oedema Nervous System Disorders : Paraesthesia , Peripheral neuropathy Renal and Urinary Disorders : Interstitial nephritis DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCY : Abuse : None reported .
Dependence : Drug dependence has not been reported with chronic administration of olsalazine .
OVERDOSAGE : No overdosage has been reported in humans .
The knowledge of overdosage is limited .
Possible overdose symptoms include nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
It is recommended to check hematology , acid - base , electrolyte , liver and kidney status , and to provide supportive treatment .
There is no specific antidote to DIPENTUM .
Maximum single oral doses of 5 g / kg in mice and rats and 2 g / kg in dogs were not lethal .
Symptoms of acute toxicity were decreased motor activity and diarrhea in all species tested .
In addition , vomiting was reported in dogs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The usual dosage in adults for maintenance of remission is 1 . 0 g / day in two divided doses .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 68151 - 0312 NDC : 68151 - 0312 - 1 1 CAPSULE , GELATIN COATED in a BLISTER PACK DIPENTUM ( OLSALAZINE SODIUM ) CAPSULE , GELATIN COATED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
