DESCRIPTION Cimetidine is a histamine H - receptor antagonist .
Chemically it is - cyano - - methyl - - [ 2 - [ [ ( 5 - methyl - 1 - imidazol - 4 - yl ) methyl ] thio ] - ethyl ] guanidine .
Its structural formula is : 2 N " NN ' H [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cimetidine contains an imidazole ring , and is chemically related to histamine .
Cimetidine has a bitter taste and characteristic odor .
Solubility Characteristics Cimetidine is soluble in alcohol , slightly soluble in water , very slightly soluble in chloroform and insoluble in ether .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 200 mg , 300 mg , 400 mg or 800 mg cimetidine , USP .
Inactive ingredients are : croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , hypromellose , lecithin , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium alginate , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , triacetin , vanillin , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake and D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cimetidine competitively inhibits the action of histamine at the histamine H receptors of the parietal cells and thus is a histamine H - receptor antagonist .
22 Cimetidine is not an anticholinergic agent .
Studies have shown that cimetidine inhibits both daytime and nocturnal basal gastric acid secretion .
Cimetidine also inhibits gastric acid secretion stimulated by food , histamine , pentagastrin , caffeine and insulin .
Antisecretory Activity 1 ) Acid Secretion Nocturnal An 800 mg oral dose of cimetidine at bedtime reduces mean hourly H activity by greater than 85 % over an 8 - hour period in duodenal ulcer patients , with no effect on daytime acid secretion .
A 1600 mg oral dose of cimetidine at bedtime produces 100 % inhibition of mean hourly H activity over an 8 - hour period in duodenal ulcer patients , but also reduces H activity by 35 % for an additional 5 hours into the following morning .
Cimetidine given as 400 mg twice daily and 300 mg 4 times daily decreases nocturnal acid secretion in a dose related manner , i . e . , 47 % to 83 % over a 6 to 8 - hour period and 54 % over a 9 - hour period , respectively .
+ + + Food Stimulated During the first hour after a standard experimental meal , a 300 mg oral dose of cimetidine inhibited gastric acid secretion in duodenal ulcer patients by at least 50 % .
During the subsequent 2 hours cimetidine inhibited gastric acid secretion by at least 75 % .
The effect of a 300 mg breakfast dose of cimetidine continued for at least 4 hours and there was partial suppression of the rise in gastric acid secretion following the luncheon meal in duodenal ulcer patients .
This suppression of gastric acid output was enhanced and could be maintained by another 300 mg dose of cimetidine given with lunch .
In another study , a 300 mg dose of cimetidine given with the meal increased gastric pH as compared with placebo .
Table 1 .
Mean Gastric pH Cimetidine Placebo 1 hour 3 . 5 2 . 6 2 hours 3 . 1 1 . 6 3 hours 3 . 8 1 . 9 4 hours 6 . 1 2 . 2 24 - Hour Mean H + Activity Cimetidine dosed at 800 mg at bedtime , 400 mg twice daily and 300 mg 4 times daily all provide a similar , moderate ( less than 60 % ) level of 24 hour acid suppression .
However , the 800 mg bedtime dose regimen exerts its entire effect on nocturnal acid , and does not affect daytime gastric physiology .
Chemically Stimulated Cimetidine administered orally significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion stimulated by betazole ( an isomer of histamine ) , pentagastrin , caffeine and insulin as follows : Table 2 .
Cimetidine Inhibition of Stimulated Gastric Acid SecretionStimulant Stimulant Dose Cimetidine % Inhibition Betazole 1 . 5 mg / kg ( sc ) 300 mg ( po ) 85 % at 2 1 / 2 hours Pentagastrin 6 mcg / kg / hr ( iv ) 100 mg / hr ( iv ) 60 % at 1 hour Caffeine 5 mg / kg / hr ( iv ) 300 mg ( po ) 100 % at 1 hour Insulin 0 . 03 units / kg / hr ( iv ) 100 mg / hr ( iv ) 82 % at 1 hour When food and betazole were used to stimulate secretion , inhibition of hydrogen ion concentration usually ranged from 45 % to 75 % and the inhibition of volume ranged from 30 % to 65 % .
2 ) Pepsin 300 mg of cimetidine taken orally reduced total pepsin output as a result of the decrease in volume of gastric juice .
3 ) Intrinsic Factor Intrinsic factor secretion was studied with betazole as a stimulant .
Cimetidine dosed at 300 mg orally inhibited the rise in intrinsic factor concentration produced by betazole , but some intrinsic factor was secreted at all times .
Other Lower Esophageal Sphincter Pressure and Gastric Emptying Cimetidine has no effect on lower esophageal sphincter ( LES ) pressure or the rate of gastric emptying .
Pharmacokinetics Cimetidine is rapidly absorbed after oral administration and peak levels occur in 45 to 90 minutes .
The half - life of cimetidine is approximately 2 hours .
Blood concentrations remain above that required to provide 80 % inhibition of basal gastric acid secretion for 4 to 5 hours following a dose of 300 mg .
Following parenteral administration , most of the drug is excreted as the parent compound in the urine , the principle route of excretion of cimetidine .
After oral administration , the drug is extensively metabolized in which the sulfoxide is the major metabolite .
Following a single oral dose , 48 % of the drug is recovered from the urine after 24 hours as the parent compound .
CLINICAL TRIALS Duodenal Ulcer Cimetidine has been shown to be effective in the treatment of active duodenal ulcer and , at reduced dosage , in maintenance therapy following healing of active ulcers .
Active Duodenal Ulcer Cimetidine accelerates the rate of duodenal ulcer healing .
Healing rates reported in U . S . and foreign controlled trials with cimetidine are summarized below , beginning with the regimen providing the lowest nocturnal dose .
Table 3 .
Duodenal Ulcer Healing Rates with Various Dosage Regimens of Cimetidine [ 1 ] Regimen 300 mg 4 Times Daily 400 mg Twice Daily 800 mg at Bedtime 1600 mg at Bedtime Week 4 68 % 73 % 80 % 86 % Week 6 80 % 80 % 89 % - Week 8 - 92 % 94 % - [ 1 ] Averages from controlled clinical trials .
A U . S . , double - blind , placebo - controlled , dose - ranging study demonstrated that all once daily at bedtime regimens of cimetidine were superior to placebo in ulcer healing and that 800 mg of cimetidine at bedtime healed 75 % of patients at 4 weeks .
The healing rate with 800 mg at bedtime was significantly superior to 400 mg at bedtime ( 66 % ) and not significantly different from 1600 mg at bedtime ( 81 % ) .
In the U . S . dose - ranging trial , over 80 % of patients receiving 800 mg of cimetidine at bedtime experienced nocturnal pain relief after one day .
Relief from daytime pain was reported in approximately 70 % of patients after 2 days .
As with ulcer healing , the 800 mg dose at bedtime was superior to 400 mg at bedtime and not different from 1600 mg at bedtime .
In foreign , double - blind studies with 800 mg of cimetidine at bedtime , 79 % to 85 % of patients were healed at 4 weeks .
While short - term treatment with cimetidine can result in complete healing of the duodenal ulcer , acute therapy will not prevent ulcer recurrence after cimetidine has been discontinued .
Some follow - up studies have reported that the rate of recurrence once therapy was discontinued was slightly higher for patients healed on cimetidine than for patients healed on other forms of therapy ; however , the patients treated with cimetidine generally had more severe disease .
Maintenance Therapy in Duodenal Ulcer Treatment with a reduced dose of cimetidine has been proven effective as maintenance therapy following healing of active duodenal ulcers .
In numerous placebo - controlled studies conducted worldwide , the percent of patients with observed ulcers at the end of one year ’ s therapy with 400 mg of cimetidine at bedtime was significantly lower ( 10 % to 45 % ) than in patients receiving placebo ( 44 % to 70 % ) .
Thus , from 55 % to 90 % of patients were maintained free of observed ulcers at the end of one year with 400 mg of cimetidine at bedtime .
Factors such as smoking , duration and severity of disease , gender and genetic traits may contribute to variations in actual percentages .
Trials of other anti - ulcer therapy , whether placebo - controlled , positive - controlled or open , have demonstrated a range of results similar to that seen with cimetidine .
Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Cimetidine has been shown to be effective in the short - term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer .
In a multicenter , double - blind U . S . study , patients with endoscopically confirmed benign gastric ulcer were treated with 300 mg of cimetidine 4 times a day or with placebo for 6 weeks .
Patients were limited to those with ulcers ranging from 0 . 5 to 2 . 5 cm in size .
Endoscopically confirmed healing at 6 weeks was seen in significantly * more patients treated with cimetidine than in patients receiving placebo , as shown below : Table 4 .
Rate of Endoscopically Confirmed Gastric Ulcer Healing Cimetidine ( 300 mg , 4 Times Daily ) Placebo Week 2 14 / 63 ( 22 % ) 7 / 63 ( 11 % ) Total at Week 6 43 / 65 ( 66 % ) [ 1 ] 30 / 67 ( 45 % ) [ 1 ] p < 0 . 05 In a similar multicenter U . S . study of the 800 mg bedtime oral regimen , the endoscopically confirmed healing rates were : Table 5 .
Rate of Endoscopically Confirmed Gastric Ulcer Healing Cimetidine ( 800 mg at Bedtime ) Placebo Total at Week 6 63 / 83 ( 76 % ) [ 1 ] 44 / 80 ( 55 % ) [ 1 ] p = 0 . 005 Similarly , in worldwide double - blind clinical studies , endoscopically evaluated benign gastric ulcer healing rates were consistently higher with cimetidine than with placebo .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease In two multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) and endoscopically proven erosions and / or ulcers , cimetidine was significantly more effective than placebo in healing lesions .
The endoscopically confirmed healing rates were : Table 6 .
Rate of Endoscopically Confirmed Healing of Erosions and / or UlcersTrial Cimetidine ( 800 mg Twice Daily ) Cimetidine ( 400 mg 4 Times Daily ) Placebo p - Value ( 800 mg Twice Daily vs . placebo ) 1 Week 6 45 % 52 % 26 % 0 . 02 Week 12 60 % 66 % 42 % 0 . 02 2 Week 6 50 % 20 % < 0 . 01 Week 12 67 % 36 % < 0 . 01 In these trials cimetidine was superior to placebo by most measures in improving symptoms of day - and night - time heartburn , with many of the differences statistically significant .
The 4 times daily regimen was generally somewhat better than the twice daily regimen where these were compared .
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( such as Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome ) : Cimetidine significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion and reduced occurrence of diarrhea , anorexia and pain in patients with pathological hypersecretion associated with Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , systemic mastocytosis and multiple endocrine adenomas .
Use of cimetidine was also followed by healing of intractable ulcers .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cimetidine tablets are indicated in : Most patients heal within 4 weeks and there is rarely reason to use cimetidine tablets at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks ( see ) .
Concomitant antacids should be given as needed for relief of pain .
However , simultaneous administration of cimetidine tablets and antacids is not recommended , since antacids have been reported to interfere with the absorption of cimetidine .
( 1 ) Short - term treatment of active duodenal ulcer . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Duodenal Ulcer Patients have been maintained on continued treatment with cimetidine tablets 400 mg at bedtime for periods of up to 5 years .
( 2 ) Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of active ulcer .
There is no information concerning usefulness of treatment periods of longer than 8 weeks .
( 3 ) Short - term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer .
Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy .
Treatment is indicated for 12 weeks for healing of lesions and control of symptoms .
The use of cimetidine tablets beyond 12 weeks has not been established ( see ) .
( 4 ) Erosive gastroesophageal reflux ( GERD ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : GERD ( i . e . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , systemic mastocytosis , multiple endocrine adenomas ) .
( 5 ) The treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions CONTRAINDICATIONS Cimetidine tablets are contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the product .
PRECAUTIONS General Rare instances of cardiac arrhythmias and hypotension have been reported following the rapid administration of cimetidine hydrochloride injection by intravenous bolus .
Symptomatic response to treatment with cimetidine does not preclude the presence of a gastric malignancy .
There have been rare reports of transient healing of gastric ulcers despite subsequently documented malignancy .
Reversible confusional states ( see ) have been observed on occasion , predominantly , but not exclusively , in severely ill patients .
Advancing age ( 50 or more years ) and preexisting liver and / or renal disease appear to be contributing factors .
In some patients these confusional states have been mild and have not required discontinuation of cimetidine .
In cases where discontinuation was judged necessary , the condition usually cleared within 3 to 4 days of drug withdrawal .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Drug Interactions Cimetidine , apparently through an effect on certain microsomal enzyme systems , has been reported to reduce the hepatic metabolism of warfarin - type anticoagulants , phenytoin , propranolol , nifedipine , chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , certain tricyclic antidepressants , lidocaine , theophylline and metronidazole , thereby delaying elimination and increasing blood levels of these drugs .
Clinically significant effects have been reported with the warfarin anticoagulants ; therefore , close monitoring of prothrombin time is recommended , and adjustment of the anticoagulant dose may be necessary when cimetidine is administered concomitantly .
Interaction with phenytoin , lidocaine and theophylline has also been reported to produce adverse clinical effects .
However , a crossover study in healthy subjects receiving either 300 mg 4 times daily or 800 mg at bedtime of cimetidine concomitantly with a 300 mg twice daily dose of theophylline extended - release tablets demonstrated less alteration in steady - state theophylline peak serum levels with the 800 mg at bedtime regimen , particularly in subjects aged 54 years and older .
Data beyond 10 days are not available .
( Note : All patients receiving theophylline should be monitored appropriately , regardless of concomitant drug therapy . )
Dosage of the drugs mentioned above and other similarly metabolized drugs , particularly those of low therapeutic ratio or in patients with renal and / or hepatic impairment , may require adjustment when starting or stopping the concomitant administration of cimetidine to maintain optimum therapeutic blood levels .
Alteration of pH may affect absorption of certain drugs ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) .
If these products are needed , they should be given at least 2 hours before cimetidine administration .
Additional clinical experience may reveal other drugs affected by the concomitant administration of cimetidine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 24 - month toxicity study conducted in rats , at dose levels of 150 , 378 and 950 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 to 48 times the recommended human dose ) , there was a small increase in the incidence of benign Leydig cell tumors in each dose group ; when the combined drug - treated groups and control groups were compared , this increase reached statistical significance .
In a subsequent 24 - month study , there were no differences between the rats receiving 150 mg / kg / day and the untreated controls .
However , a statistically significant increase in benign Leydig cell tumor incidence was seen in the rats that received 378 and 950 mg / kg / day .
These tumors were common in control groups as well as treated groups and the difference became apparent only in aged rats .
Cimetidine has demonstrated a weak antiandrogenic effect .
In animal studies this was manifested as reduced prostate and seminal vesicle weights .
However , there was no impairment of mating performance or fertility , nor any harm to the fetus in these animals at doses 8 to 48 times the full therapeutic dose of cimetidine , as compared with controls .
The cases of gynecomastia seen in patients treated for one month or longer may be related to this effect .
In human studies , cimetidine has been shown to have no effect on spermatogenesis , sperm count , motility , morphology or fertilizing capacity .
in vitro Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , rabbits and mice at doses up to 40 times the normal human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cimetidine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Cimetidine is secreted in human milk and , as a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug .
Pediatric Use Clinical experience in children is limited .
Therefore , therapy with cimetidine cannot be recommended for children under 16 , unless , in the judgement of the physician , anticipated benefits outweigh the potential risks .
In very limited experience , doses of 20 to 40 mg / kg / day have been used .
Immunocompromised Patients In immunocompromised patients , decreased gastric acidity , including that produced by acid - suppressing agents such as cimetidine , may increase the possibility of a hyperinfection of strongyloidiasis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse effects reported in patients taking cimetidine are described as follows by body system .
Incidence figures of 1 in 100 and greater are generally derived from controlled clinical studies .
Gastrointestinal Diarrhea ( usually mild ) has been reported in approximately 1 in 100 patients .
CNS Headaches , ranging from mild to severe , have been reported in 3 . 5 % of 924 patients taking 1600 mg / day , 2 . 1 % of 2 , 225 patients taking 800 mg / day and 2 . 3 % of 1 , 897 patients taking placebo .
Dizziness and somnolence ( usually mild ) have been reported in approximately 1 in 100 patients on either 1600 mg / day or 800 mg / day .
Reversible confusional states , e . g . , mental confusion , agitation , psychosis , depression , anxiety , hallucinations , disorientation , have been reported predominantly , but not exclusively , in severely ill patients .
They have usually developed within 2 to 3 days of initiation of treatment with cimetidine and have cleared within 3 to 4 days of discontinuation of the drug .
Endocrine Gynecomastia has been reported in patients treated for one month or longer .
In patients being treated for pathological hypersecretory states , this occurred in about 4 % of cases while in all others the incidence was 0 . 3 % to 1 % in various studies .
No evidence of induced endocrine dysfunction was found , and the condition remained unchanged or returned toward normal with continuing treatment with cimetidine .
Reversible impotence has been reported in patients with pathological hypersecretory disorders , e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , receiving cimetidine , particularly in high doses , for at least 12 months ( range 12 to 79 months , mean 38 months ) .
However , in large - scale surveillance studies at regular dosage , the incidence has not exceeded that commonly reported in the general population .
Hematologic Decreased white blood cell counts in patients treated with cimetidine ( approximately 1 per 100 , 000 patients ) , including agranulocytosis ( approximately 3 per million patients ) , have been reported , including a few reports of recurrence on rechallenge .
Most of these reports were in patients who had serious concomitant illnesses and received drugs and / or treatment known to produce neutropenia .
Thrombocytopenia ( approximately 3 per million patients ) and , very rarely , cases of pancytopenia or aplastic anemia have also been reported .
As with some other H - receptor antagonists , there have been extremely rare reports of immune hemolytic anemia .
2 Hepatobiliary Dose related increases in serum transaminase have been reported .
In most cases they did not progress with continued therapy and returned to normal at the end of therapy .
There have been rare reports of cholestatic or mixed cholestatic - hepatocellular effects .
These were usually reversible .
Because of the predominance of cholestatic features , severe parenchymal injury is considered highly unlikely .
However , as in the occasional liver injury with other H - receptor antagonists , in exceedingly rare circumstances fatal outcomes have been reported .
2 There has been reported a single case of biopsy - proven periportal hepatic fibrosis in a patient receiving cimetidine .
Rare cases of pancreatitis , which cleared on withdrawal of the drug , have been reported .
Hypersensitivity Rare cases of fever and allergic reactions including anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity vasculitis , which cleared on withdrawal of the drug , have been reported .
Renal Small , possibly dose related increases in plasma creatinine , presumably due to competition for renal tubular secretion , are not uncommon and do not signify deteriorating renal function .
Rare cases of interstitial nephritis and urinary retention , which cleared on withdrawal of the drug , have been reported .
Cardiovascular Rare cases of bradycardia , tachycardia and AV heart block have been reported with H - receptor antagonists .
2 Musculoskeletal There have been rare reports of reversible arthralgia and myalgia ; exacerbation of joint symptoms in patients with preexisting arthritis has also been reported .
Such symptoms have usually been alleviated by a reduction in the dosage of cimetidine .
Rare cases of polymyositis have been reported , but no causal relationship has been established .
Integumental Mild rash and , very rarely , cases of severe generalized skin reactions including Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis and generalized exfoliative erythroderma have been reported with H - receptor antagonists .
Reversible alopecia has been reported very rarely .
2 Immune Function There have been extremely rare reports of strongyloidiasis hyperinfection in immunocompromised patients .
Respiratory A large epidemiological study suggested an increased risk of developing pneumonia in current users of histamine - 2 - receptor antagonists ( H RAs ) compared to patients who had stopped H RA treatment , with an observed adjusted relative risk of 1 . 63 ( 95 % CI , 1 . 07 to 2 . 48 ) .
However , a causal relationship between use of H RAs and pneumonia has not been established .
222 OVERDOSAGE Studies in animals indicate that toxic doses are associated with respiratory failure and tachycardia that may be controlled by assisted respiration and the administration of a beta - blocker .
Reported acute ingestions orally of up to 20 grams have been associated with transient adverse effects similar to those encountered in normal clinical experience .
The usual measures to remove unabsorbed material from the gastrointestinal tract , clinical monitoring , and supportive therapy should be employed .
There have been reports of severe CNS symptoms , including unresponsiveness , following ingestion of between 20 grams and 40 grams of cimetidine , and extremely rare reports following concomitant use of multiple CNS active medications and ingestion of cimetidine at doses less than 20 grams .
An elderly , terminally ill dehydrated patient with organic brain syndrome receiving concomitant antipsychotic agents and 4800 mg of cimetidine intravenously over a 24 - hour period experienced mental deterioration with reversal on discontinuation of cimetidine .
There have been two deaths in adults who were reported to have ingested over 40 grams orally on a single occasion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Duodenal Ulcer Active Duodenal Ulcer Clinical studies have indicated that suppression of nocturnal acid is the most important factor in duodenal ulcer healing ( see ) .
This is supported by recent clinical trials ( see ) .
Therefore , there is no apparent rationale , except for familiarity with use , for treating with anything other than a once daily at bedtime dosage regimen .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Antisecretory Activity : Acid SecretionCLINICAL TRIALS : Duodenal Ulcer : Active Duodenal Ulcer In a U . S . dose - ranging study of 400 mg at bedtime , 800 mg at bedtime and 1600 mg at bedtime , a continuous dose - response relationship for ulcer healing was demonstrated .
However , 800 mg at bedtime is the dose of choice for most patients , as it provides a high healing rate ( the difference between 800 mg at bedtime and 1600 mg at bedtime being small ) , maximal pain relief , a decreased potential for drug interactions ( see ) and maximal patient convenience .
Patients unhealed at 4 weeks , or those with persistent symptoms , have been shown to benefit from 2 to 4 weeks of continued therapy .
PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions It has been shown that patients who both have an endoscopically demonstrated ulcer larger than 1 cm and are also heavy smokers ( i . e . , smoke one pack of cigarettes or more per day ) are more difficult to heal .
There is some evidence which suggests that more rapid healing can be achieved in this subpopulation with 1600 mg of cimetidine tablets at bedtime .
While early pain relief with either 800 mg at bedtime or 1600 mg at bedtime is equivalent in all patients , 1600 mg at bedtime provides an appropriate alternative when it is important to ensure healing within 4 weeks for this subpopulation .
Alternatively , approximately 94 % of all patients will also heal in 8 weeks with 800 mg of cimetidine tablets at bedtime Other regimens of cimetidine tablets in the United States which have been shown to be effective are : 300 mg 4 times daily , with meals and at bedtime , the original regimen with which U . S . physicians have the most experience , and 400 mg twice daily , in the morning and at bedtime ( see ) .
CLINICAL TRIALS : Duodenal Ulcer : Active Duodenal Ulcer Concomitant antacids should be given as needed for relief of pain .
However , simultaneous administration of cimetidine tablets and antacids is not recommended , since antacids have been reported to interfere with the absorption of cimetidine .
While healing with cimetidine tablets often occurs during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 6 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by endoscopic examination .
Maintenance Therapy for Duodenal Ulcer In those patients requiring maintenance therapy , the recommended adult oral dose is 400 mg at bedtime .
Active Benign Gastric Ulcer The recommended adult oral dosage for short - term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer is 800 mg at bedtime , or 300 mg 4 times a day with meals and at bedtime .
Controlled clinical studies were limited to 6 weeks of treatment ( see ) .
A dose of 800 mg at bedtime is the preferred regimen for most patients based upon convenience and reduced potential for drug interactions .
Symptomatic response to cimetidine tablets does not preclude the presence of a gastric malignancy .
It is important to follow gastric ulcer patients to assure rapid progress to complete healing .
CLINICAL TRIALS Erosive Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) The recommended adult oral dosage for the treatment of erosive esophagitis that has been diagnosed by endoscopy is 1600 mg daily in divided doses ( 800 mg twice daily or 400 mg 4 times daily ) for 12 weeks .
The use of cimetidine tablets beyond 12 weeks has not been established .
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( such as Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome ) Recommended adult oral dosage : 300 mg 4 times a day with meals and at bedtime .
In some patients it may be necessary to administer higher doses more frequently .
Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs , but should not usually exceed 2400 mg per day and should continue as long as clinically indicated .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Impaired Renal Function Patients with severely impaired renal function have been treated with cimetidine tablets .
However , such usage has been very limited .
On the basis of this experience the recommended dosage is 300 mg every 12 hours orally .
Should the patient ’ s condition require , the frequency of dosing may be increased to every 8 hours or even further with caution .
In severe renal failure , accumulation may occur and the lowest frequency of dosing compatible with an adequate patient response should be used .
When liver impairment is also present , further reductions in dosage may be necessary .
Hemodialysis reduces the level of circulating cimetidine .
Ideally , the dosage schedule should be adjusted so that the timing of a scheduled dose coincides with the end of hemodialysis .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 68151 - 1497 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 TABLET , FILM COATEDS Cimetidine 200 MG TAB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
