DESCRIPTION : Each gram of BP 10 - 1 Wash contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 10 mg of sulfur in a wash containing butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , edetate disodium , glyceryl stearate and PEG - 100 stearate , lactic acid , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium C14 - 16 olefin sulfonate , sodium hydroxide , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum , and xanthan gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically , sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] acetamide , monosodium salt monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : BP 10 - 1 Wash is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : BP 10 - 1 Wash is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
BP 10 - 1 Wash is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur , although it is rare .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep tube tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS : General - if irritation occurs , discontinue use of the product and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy - Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with BP 10 - 1 Wash .
It is also not known whether BP 10 - 1 Wash can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
BP 10 - 1 Wash should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of BP 10 - 1 Wash .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BP 10 - 1 Wash is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Wash affected areas once or twice daily , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be treated , massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing wash off sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : BP 10 - 1 Wash is available in 170 . 1 g ( 6 . 0 oz ) tubes , NDC 42192 - 104 - 06 .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - 170 g carton NDC 42192 - 104 - 06 BP 10 - 1 ( sodium sulfocetamide 10 % and sulfur 1 % ) R x Only wash Net Wt .
6 oz ( 170 . 1 g ) Brookstone Pharmaceuticals is now known as Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
