Warnings and Precautions , Embryo - Fetal Toxicity ( 5 . 4 ) 02 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FIRMAGON ® is indicated for treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer .
FIRMAGON is a GnRH receptor antagonist indicated for treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • FIRMAGON is for subcutaneous use only • Starting Dosage : 240 mg given as two injections of 120 mg each ( 2 . 1 ) • Maintenance Dosage : 80 mg administered as a single injection every 28 days ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing information FIRMAGON is administered as a subcutaneous injection in the abdominal region only at the dosages in Table 1 below .
Table 1 : FIRMAGON Recommended DosagesStarting Dosage Maintenance Dosage – Administered once every 28 days • 240 mg given as two subcutaneous injections of 120 mg at a concentration of 40 mg / mL • The first maintenance dose should be given 28 days after the starting dose .
• 80 mg given as one subcutaneous injection at a concentration of 20 mg / mL 2 . 2 Reconstitution and Administration Instructions FIRMAGON is to be administered by a healthcare professional only .
Before administering FIRMAGON read the Instructions for reconstitution and administration carefully .
As with other drugs administered by subcutaneous injection , the injection site should vary periodically .
Injections should be given only in areas of the abdomen that will not be exposed to pressure , e . g . , not close to waistband or belt nor close to the ribs .
FIRMAGON is supplied as a powder to be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
• Starting dose ( 240 mg ) : Two single - dose vials each delivering 120 mg of degarelix in a white to off - white lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied with diluent in two prefilled syringes .
Each vial is to be reconstituted with a prefilled syringe containing 3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
3 mL is withdrawn to deliver 120 mg degarelix at a concentration of 40 mg / mL .
• Maintenance dose ( 80 mg ) : One single - dose vial delivering 80 mg of degarelix in a white to off - white lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied with diluent in one prefilled syringe .
Each vial is to be reconstituted with a prefilled syringe containing 4 . 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
4 mL is withdrawn to deliver 80 mg degarelix at a concentration of 20 mg / mL .
Follow the instructions for reconstitution closely and read the complete instructions before performing the subcutaneous injection .
Reconstituted drug must be administered within one hour after addition of Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Do not shake the vials .
Follow aseptic technique .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] FIRMAGON 240 mg Starting Dose Kit contains : • 2 vials containing the 120 mg FIRMAGON powder ( a ) • 2 syringes containing Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( b ) • 2 vial adapters ( c ) • 2 25 gauge × 1 inch injection needles ( d ) • 2 plunger rods ( e ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] FIRMAGON 80 mg Maintenance Dose Kit contains : • 1 vial containing the 80 mg FIRMAGON powder ( f ) • 1 syringe containing Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( g ) • 1 vial adapter ( h ) • 1 25 gauge × 1 inch injection needle ( i ) • 1 plunger rod ( j ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] In addition the healthcare professional will need : • gloves ( k ) • alcohol pads ( l ) • a clean , flat surface ( m ) to work on , like a table • a sharps disposal container ( n ) for throwing away your used needles and syringes .
See " Disposing used needles and syringes " at the end of these instructions .
The drug product must be prepared using the following instructions : NOTE : The mixing process must be repeated for the two injections of the Starting Dose prior to injecting the product into the patient ' s abdomen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Attaching the vial adaptor to the vial • Thoroughly wash your hands using soap and water and put on a pair of clean gloves .
• Place all the supplies required on a clean surface .
• Check that there is powder in the FIRMAGON vial and that the Sterile Water for Injection , USP is clear and free from particles .
IMPORTANT : DO NOT USE if there is no powder in the vial or the Sterile Water for Injection , USP is discolored .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Uncap the vial containing the FIRMAGON powder ( o ) .
• Wipe the vial rubber stopper with an alcohol pad .
IMPORTANT : Do not touch the top of the vial after wiping .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Peel off the seal from the vial adaptor cover .
IMPORTANT : Do not touch the vial adapter .
• Firmly press the vial adaptor ( p ) onto the vial containing the FIRMAGON powder until the adaptor snaps into place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Pull the vial adaptor cover off the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Assembling the syringe • Insert the plunger rod ( q ) into the prefilled syringe containing Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( r ) and screw the plunger rod clockwise to tighten .
IMPORTANT : Do not pull the back stopper ( flange ) ( s ) off the syringe .
NOTE : You will only feel light resistance screwing the plunger rod in position .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Transferring Sterile Water for Injection , USP from the syringe to the vial • Unscrew the gray syringe plug ( t ) attached to the Luer lock adaptor on the syringe .
IMPORTANT : Do not pull off the Luer lock adaptor ( u ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Carefully twist the prefilled syringe containing Sterile Water for Injection , USP onto the vial adapter on the FIRMAGON powder vial , until it is tight .
IMPORTANT : Be careful not to over twist the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Press the plunger slowly to transfer all the Sterile Water for Injection , USP from the syringe to the FIRMAGON powder vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Preparing the reconstituted injection • With the syringe still attached to the vial adaptor , swirl gently until the liquid is clear with no powder or visible particles .
IMPORTANT : • Do not shake the vial as this will cause bubbles .
• Reconstitute just prior to administration .
NOTE : If the powder adheres to the side of the vial , tilt the vial slightly .
A ring of small air bubbles on the surface of the liquid is acceptable .
Reconstitution time can take up to 15 min but usually takes a few minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Transferring the liquid to the syringe • Turn the vial completely upside down and pull down the plunger to withdraw all of the reconstituted liquid from the vial to the syringe .
• Tap the syringe gently with your fingers to raise air bubbles in the syringe tip .
• Press the plunger to the line marked on the syringe to expel all air bubbles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Preparing the syringe for injection • Holding the vial adaptor detach the syringe from the vial by unscrewing the syringe from the vial adaptor .
NOTE : Reconstitute just prior to administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • While holding the syringe with the tip pointing up , screw the injection needle ( v ) clockwise ( right ) onto the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Preparing the patient • Select one of the four available injection sites on the abdomen .
IMPORTANT : • Do not inject in areas where the patient will be exposed to pressure , such as area around the belt of the waistband or close to the ribs .
• Vary the injection site periodically during treatment to minimize discomfort to the patient .
• Clean the injection site with an alcohol pad .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Performing the injection • Move the needle shield ( w ) away from the needle and carefully remove the needle cover ( x ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Pinch and elevate the skin of the abdomen .
• Insert the needle into the skin at a 45 degree angle all the way to the hub .
• Do not inject into a vein or muscle .
Gently pull back the plunger to check if blood is aspirated .
IMPORTANT : If blood appears in the syringe , the product should not be injected .
Discontinue the injection and discard the syringe and the needle ( reconstitute a new dose for the patient ) .
• Perform a slow , deep subcutaneous injection over 30 seconds .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the needle and then release the skin .
IMPORTANT : Do not rub the injection site after retracting the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Locking the needle into the shield • Position the needle shield approximately 45 degrees to a flat surface .
• Press down with a firm , quick motion until a distinct , audible " click " is heard .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Visually confirm that the needle is fully engaged under the lock ( y ) .
IMPORTANT : Syringe is for single use only .
Do not reuse the syringe and needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : Advising the patient • Instruct the patient not to rub or scratch the injection site .
• Inform that some patients may feel a lump at the injection site and experience redness , soreness and discomfort for a few days after the injection .
Disposing used needles and syringes • Put used alcohol swabs , needles and syringes in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away loose needles and syringes in the trash .
• For more information about safe sharps disposal , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : • FIRMAGON ( 240 mg ) : Two single - dose vials each delivering 120 mg of degarelix in a white to off - white lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied with diluent in two prefilled syringes .
• FIRMAGON ( 80 mg ) : One single - dose vial delivering 80 mg of degarelix in a white to off - white lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied with diluent in one prefilled syringe .
For injection : • FIRMAGON ( 240 mg ) : Two single - dose vials each delivering 120 mg of degarelix in a lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied with diluent in two prefilled syringes ( 3 ) • FIRMAGON ( 80 mg ) : One single - dose vial delivering 80 mg of degarelix in a lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied with diluent in one prefilled syringe ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS FIRMAGON is contraindicated in patients with history of severe hypersensitivity to degarelix or to any of the product components [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Patients with history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to degarelix or to any of the product components ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity : Anaphylaxis , urticaria and angioedema have been reported .
Discontinue FIRMAGON if a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs and manage as clinically indicated ( 5 . 1 ) • QT Interval Prolongation : Androgen deprivation therapy treatment with FIRMAGON may prolong the QT interval .
( 5 . 2 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : FIRMAGON can cause fetal harm .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions FIRMAGON is contraindicated in patients with history of severe hypersensitivity to degarelix or to any of the product components [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , urticaria and angioedema , have been reported post - marketing with FIRMAGON .
In case of a severe hypersensitivity reaction , discontinue FIRMAGON immediately if the injection has not been completed , and manage as clinically indicated .
Patients with a known history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to FIRMAGON should not be re - challenged with FIRMAGON .
5 . 2 QT Interval Prolongation Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval .
Providers should consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients with congenital long QT syndrome , congestive heart failure , frequent electrolyte abnormalities , and in patients taking drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected .
Consider periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and electrolytes .
In the randomized , active - controlled trial comparing FIRMAGON to leuprolide , periodic electro - cardiograms were performed .
Seven patients , three ( < 1 % ) in the pooled degarelix group and four ( 2 % ) patients in the leuprolide 7 . 5 mg group , had a QTcF ≥ 500 msec .
From baseline to end of study , the median change for FIRMAGON was 12 . 3 msec and for leuprolide was 16 . 7 msec .
5 . 3 Laboratory Testing FIRMAGON results in suppression of the pituitary gonadal system .
Results of diagnostic tests of the pituitary gonadotropic and gonadal functions conducted during and after FIRMAGON may be affected .
The therapeutic effect of FIRMAGON should be monitored by measuring serum concentrations of prostate - specific antigen ( PSA ) periodically .
If PSA increases , serum concentrations of testosterone should be measured .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings in animal studies , FIRMAGON can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits , oral administration of degarelix during organogenesis caused embryo - fetal lethality and abortion as well as increased post - implantation loss and decreased the number of live fetuses in animals at doses less than the clinical loading dose based on body surface area .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) are injection site reactions ( e . g . , pain , erythema , swelling or induration ) , hot flashes , and increases in serum levels of transaminases and gamma - glutamyltransferase ( GGT ) ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ferring at 1 - 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
FIRMAGON was studied in a randomized , open - label trial in which patients with prostate cancer were randomized to receive FIRMAGON ( subcutaneous ) or leuprolide ( intramuscular ) monthly for 12 months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) during FIRMAGON therapy are injection site reactions ( e . g . , pain , erythema , swelling or induration ) , hot flashes , and increases in serum levels of transaminases and gamma - glutamyltransferase ( GGT ) .
The majority of the adverse reactions were Grade 1 or 2 , with Grade 3 / 4 adverse reaction incidences of 1 % or less .
Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with FIRMAGON ( subcutaneous ) 240 mg starting dose and then 80 mg maintenance dose once every 28 days or who were treated with 7 . 5 mg of leuprolide ( intramuscular ) every 28 days are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients FIRMAGON 240 / 80 mg ( subcutaneous ) N = 207 Leuprolide 7 . 5 mg ( intramuscular ) N = 201 Any adverse reaction 79 % 78 % Body as a whole Injection site reactions [ 1 ] 35 % < 1 % Weight increase 9 % 12 % Chills 5 % 0 % Cardiovascular system Hot flash 26 % 21 % Hypertension 6 % 4 % Digestive system Increases in Transaminases and GGT 10 % 5 % Constipation 5 % 5 % Musculoskeletal system Back pain 6 % 8 % Arthralgia 5 % 9 % Urogenital system Urinary tract infection 5 % 9 % [ 1 ] Includes pain , erythema , swelling , induration , or nodule .
The following adverse reactions occurred in 1 to < 5 % of patients treated with FIRMAGON : • Body as a whole : Asthenia , fatigue , fever , night sweats • Digestive system : Nausea • Nervous system : Dizziness , headache , insomnia The following adverse reactions , not already listed , occurred in ≥ 1 % of patients treated in any study with FIRMAGON : • Reproductive System : Erectile dysfunction , testicular atrophy • Endocrine Disorders : Gynecomastia • General : Hyperhidrosis • Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea Injection Site Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions at the injection sites were pain ( 28 % ) , erythema ( 17 % ) , swelling ( 6 % ) , induration ( 4 % ) and nodule ( 3 % ) .
These adverse reactions were mostly transient , of mild to moderate intensity , occurred primarily with the starting dose and led to few discontinuations ( < 1 % ) .
Grade 3 injection site reactions occurred in 2 % or less of patients receiving FIRMAGON .
Hepatic Laboratory Abnormalities Hepatic laboratory abnormalities were primarily Grade 1 or 2 and were generally reversible .
Grade 3 hepatic laboratory abnormalities occurred in less than 1 % of patients .
FIRMAGON Extension Study The safety of FIRMAGON administered once every 28 days was evaluated further in an extension study ( NCT00451958 ) in 385 patients who completed the above active - controlled trial .
Of the 385 patients , 251 patients continued treatment with FIRMAGON and 135 patients crossed over treatment from leuprolide to FIRMAGON .
The median treatment duration on the extension study was approximately 43 months ( range 1 to 58 months ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported in ≥ 10 % of the patients were injection site reactions ( e . g . , pain , erythema , swelling , induration or inflammation ) , pyrexia , hot flush , weight loss or gain , fatigue , increases in serum levels of hepatic transaminases and GGT .
One percent of patients had injection site infections including abscess .
Hepatic laboratory abnormalities in the extension study included the following : Grade 1 / 2 elevations in hepatic transaminases occurred in 47 % of patients and Grade 3 elevations occurred in 1 % of patients .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all peptides , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
Anti - Degarelix Antibodies Anti - degarelix antibody development has been observed in 10 % of patients after treatment with FIRMAGON for 1 year .
There is no indication that the efficacy or safety of FIRMAGON treatment is affected by antibody formation .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of FIRMAGON .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Changes in bone density Decreased bone density has been reported in the medical literature in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with a GnRH agonist .
It can be anticipated that long periods of medical castration in men will result in decreased bone density .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted .
Degarelix is not a substrate for the human CYP450 system .
Degarelix is not an inducer or inhibitor of the CYP450 system in vitro .
Therefore , clinically significant CYP450 pharmacokinetic drug - drug interactions are unlikely .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Females and males of reproductive potential : FIRMAGON may impair fertility ( 8 . 3 ) • Patients with severe liver or kidney dysfunction have not been studied and caution is therefore warranted ( 8 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The safety and efficacy of FIRMAGON have not been established in women .
Based on findings in animal studies and mechanism of action , FIRMAGON can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no human data on the use of FIRMAGON in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits , oral administration of degarelix during organogenesis caused embryo - fetal lethality and abortion as well as increased post - implantation loss and decreased the number of live fetuses in animals at doses less than the clinical loading dose based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Data Animal Data When degarelix was given to rabbits during early organogenesis at doses of 0 . 002 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 02 % of the clinical loading dose based on body surface area ) , there was an increase in early post - implantation loss .
Degarelix given to rabbits during mid and late organogenesis at doses of 0 . 006 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 05 % of the clinical loading dose based on body surface area ) caused embryo / fetal lethality and abortion .
When degarelix was given to female rats during early organogenesis , at doses of 0 . 0045 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 036 % of the clinical loading dose based on body surface area ) , there was an increase in early post - implantation loss .
When degarelix was given to female rats during mid and late organogenesis , at doses of 0 . 045 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 36 % of the clinical loading dose based on body surface area ) , there was an increase in the number of minor skeletal abnormalities and variants .
8 . 2 Lactation The safety and efficacy of FIRMAGON have not been established in females .
There are no data on the presence of degarelix in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because many drugs are present in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child from degarelix , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action , degarelix may impair fertility in males and females of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of FIRMAGON , 82 % were age 65 and over , while 42 % were age 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No pharmacokinetic studies in renally impaired patients have been conducted .
At least 20 - 30 % of a given dose of degarelix is excreted unchanged in the urine .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from the randomized study demonstrated that there is no significant effect of mild renal impairment [ creatinine clearance ( CrCL ) 50 - 80 mL / min ] on either the degarelix concentration or testosterone concentration .
Data on patients with moderate or severe renal impairment is limited and therefore degarelix should be used with caution in patients with CrCL < 50 mL / min .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment were excluded from the randomized trial .
A single dose of 1 mg degarelix administered as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour was studied in 16 non - prostate cancer patients with either mild ( Child Pugh A ) or moderate ( Child Pugh B ) hepatic impairment .
Compared to non - prostate cancer patients with normal liver function , the exposure of degarelix decreased by 10 % and 18 % in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment , respectively .
Therefore , dose adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
However , since hepatic impairment can lower degarelix exposure , it is recommended that in patients with hepatic impairment testosterone concentrations should be monitored on a monthly basis until medical castration is achieved .
Once medical castration is achieved , an every - other - month testosterone monitoring approach could be considered .
Patients with severe hepatic dysfunction have not been studied and caution is therefore warranted in this group .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdose with FIRMAGON .
In the case of overdose , however , discontinue FIRMAGON , treat the patient symptomatically , and institute supportive measures .
11 DESCRIPTION FIRMAGON is a sterile lyophilized powder for injection containing degarelix ( as the acetate ) and mannitol .
Degarelix is a synthetic linear decapeptide amide containing seven unnatural amino acids , five of which are D - amino acids .
The acetate salt of degarelix is a white to off - white amorphous powder of low density as obtained after lyophilization .
The chemical name of degarelix is D - Alaninamide , N - acetyl - 3 - ( 2 - naphthalenyl ) - D - alanyl - 4 - chloro - D - phenylalanyl - 3 - ( 3 - pyridinyl ) - D - alanyl - L - seryl - 4 - [ [ [ ( 4 S ) - hexahydro - 2 , 6 - dioxo - 4 - pyrimidinyl ] carbonyl ] amino ] - L phenylalanyl - 4 - [ ( aminocarbonyl ) amino ] - D - phenylalanyl - L - leucyl - N6 – ( 1 - methylethyl ) - L - lysyl - L - prolyl .
It has an empirical formula of C82H103N18O16Cl and a molecular weight of 1632 . 3 Da .
Degarelix acetate has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] FIRMAGON is available in two packaging configurations : • Starting Dose : Two vial carton with each vial delivering 120 mg of degarelix ( equivalent to the median value of 126 mg degarelix acetate ) .
Each 120 mg dose contains 150 mg mannitol .
• Maintenance Dose : One - vial carton delivering 80 mg of degarelix ( equivalent to the median value of 84 mg degarelix acetate ) .
Each 80 mg dose contains 200 mg mannitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Degarelix is a GnRH receptor antagonist .
It binds reversibly to the pituitary GnRH receptors , thereby reducing the release of gonadotropins and consequently testosterone .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics A single dose of 240 mg FIRMAGON causes a decrease in the plasma concentrations of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , and subsequently testosterone .
FIRMAGON is effective in achieving and maintaining testosterone suppression below the castration level of 50 ng / dL .
Figure 1 : Plasma Testosterone Levels from Day 0 to 364 for Degarelix 240 mg / 80 mg ( Median with Interquartile Ranges ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption FIRMAGON forms a depot upon subcutaneous administration , from which degarelix is released to the circulation .
Following administration of FIRMAGON 240 mg at a product concentration of 40 mg / mL , the mean Cmax was 26 . 2 ng / mL ( coefficient of variation , CV 83 % ) and the mean AUC was 1054 ng ∙ day / mL ( CV 35 % ) .
Typically Cmax occurred within 2 days after subcutaneous administration .
In prostate cancer patients at a product concentration of 40 mg / mL , the pharmacokinetics of degarelix were linear over a dose range of 120 to 240 mg .
The pharmacokinetic behavior of the drug is strongly influenced by its concentration in the injection solution .
Distribution The distribution volume of degarelix after intravenous ( > 1 L / kg ) or subcutaneous administration ( > 1000 L ) indicates that degarelix is distributed throughout total body water .
In vitro plasma protein binding of degarelix is estimated to be approximately 90 % .
Metabolism Degarelix is subject to peptide hydrolysis during the passage of the hepato - biliary system and is mainly excreted as peptide fragments in the feces .
No quantitatively significant metabolites were detected in plasma samples after subcutaneous administration .
In vitro studies have shown that degarelix is not a substrate , inducer or inhibitor of the CYP450 or p - glycoprotein transporter systems .
Excretion Following subcutaneous administration of 240 mg FIRMAGON at a concentration of 40 mg / mL to prostate cancer patients , degarelix is eliminated in a biphasic fashion , with a median terminal half - life of approximately 53 days .
The long half - life after subcutaneous administration is a consequence of a very slow release of degarelix from the FIRMAGON depot formed at the injection site ( s ) .
Approximately 20 - 30 % of a given dose of degarelix was renally excreted , suggesting that approximately 70 - 80 % is excreted via the hepato - biliary system in humans .
Following subcutaneous administration of degarelix to prostate cancer patients the clearance is approximately 9 L / hr .
Effect of Age , Weight and Race There was no effect of age , weight or race on the degarelix pharmacokinetic parameters or testosterone concentration .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Degarelix was administered subcutaneously to rats every 2 weeks for 2 years at doses of 2 , 10 and 25 mg / kg ( about 9 , 45 and 120 % of the recommended human loading dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Long term treatment with degarelix at 25 mg / kg caused an increase in the combined incidence of benign hemangiomas plus malignant hemangiosarcomas in females .
Degarelix was administered subcutaneously to mice every 2 weeks for 2 years at doses of 2 , 10 and 50 mg / kg ( about 5 , 22 and 120 % of the recommended human loading dose ( 240 mg ) on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no statistically significant increase in tumor incidence associated with this treatment .
Degarelix did not cause genetic damage in standard in vitro assays ( bacterial mutation , human lymphocyte chromosome aberration ) nor in in vivo rodent bone marrow micronucleus tests .
Single degarelix doses of ≥ 1 mg / kg ( about 5 % of the clinical loading dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused reversible infertility in male rats .
Single doses of ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg ( about 0 . 5 % of the clinical loading dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused a decrease in fertility in female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of FIRMAGON were evaluated in an open - label , multi - center , randomized , parallel - group study ( NCT00295750 ) in patients with prostate cancer .
A total of 620 patients were randomized to receive one of two FIRMAGON dosing regimens or leuprolide for one year : • a . FIRMAGON at a starting dose of 240 mg ( 40 mg / mL ) followed by monthly doses of 80 mg ( 20 mg / mL ) subcutaneously , • b . leuprolide 7 . 5 mg intramuscularly monthly .
• c . FIRMAGON at a starting dose of 240 mg ( 40 mg / mL ) followed by monthly doses of 160 mg ( 40 mg / mL ) subcutaneously .
FIRMAGON is not approved for use with monthly doses of 160 mg ( 40 mg / mL ) subcutaneously .
Serum levels of testosterone were measured at screening , on Day 0 , 1 , 3 , 7 , 14 , and 28 in the first month , and then monthly until the end of the study .
The clinical trial population ( n = 610 ) across all treatment arms had an overall median age of approximately 73 ( range 50 to 98 ) .
The ethnic / racial distribution was 84 % white , 6 % black and 10 % others .
Disease stage was distributed approximately as follows : 20 % metastatic , 29 % locally advanced ( T3 / T4 Nx M0 or N1 M0 ) , 31 % localized ( T1 or T2 N0 M0 ) and 20 % classified as other ( including patients whose disease metastatic status could not be determined definitively - or patients with PSA relapse after primary curative therapy ) .
In addition , the median testosterone baseline value across treatment arms was approximately 400 ng / dL .
The primary objective was to demonstrate that FIRMAGON is effective achieving and maintaining testosterone suppression to castration levels ( T ≤ 50 ng / dL ) during 12 months of treatment .
The results are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Medical Castration Rates ( Testosterone ≤ 50 ng / dL ) from Day 28 to Day 364 FIRMAGON 240 / 80 mg N = 207 Leuprolide 7 . 5 mg N = 201 No .
of Responders 202 194 Castration Rate ( 95 % CIs ) [ 1 ] 97 . 2 % ( 93 . 5 ; 98 . 8 ) 96 . 4 % ( 92 . 5 ; 98 . 2 ) [ 1 ] Kaplan Meier estimates within group Percentage changes in testosterone from baseline to Day 28 ( median with interquartile ranges ) are shown in Figure 2 and the percentages of patients who attained the medical castration of testosterone ≤ 50 ng / dL are summarized in Table 4 .
Figure 2 : Percentage Change in Testosterone from Baseline by Treatment Group until Day 28 ( Median with Interquartile Ranges ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 4 : Percentage of Patients Attaining Testosterone ≤ 50 ng / dL within the First 28 Days FIRMAGON 240 / 80 mg N = 207 Leuprolide 7 . 5 mg N = 201 Day 1 52 % 0 % Day 3 96 % 0 % Day 7 99 % 1 % Day 14 99 % 18 % Day 28 100 % 100 % In the clinical trial , PSA levels were monitored as a secondary endpoint .
PSA levels were lowered by 64 % two weeks after administration of FIRMAGON , 85 % after one month , 95 % after three months , and remained suppressed throughout the one year of treatment .
These PSA results should be interpreted with caution because of the heterogeneity of the patient population studied .
No evidence has shown that the rapidity of PSA decline is related to a clinical benefit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING FIRMAGON is available as : • NDC 55566 - 8403 - 1 , Starting dose – One carton contains : Two single - dose vials each delivering 120 mg of degarelix in a white to off - white lyophilized powder for injection Two prefilled syringes each containing 3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP Two vial adapters Two administration needles • NDC 55566 - 8303 - 1 , Maintenance dose – One carton contains : One single - dose vial delivering 80 mg of degarelix in a white to off - white lyophilized powder for injection One prefilled syringe containing 4 . 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP One vial adapter One administration needle Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity • Inform patients that if they have experienced severe hypersensitivity with degarelix or to any of the product components , FIRMAGON is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Instruct patients to immediately report signs of a severe hypersensitivity reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
QT Interval Prolongation • Advise patients that androgen deprivation therapy treatment with FIRMAGON may prolong the QT interval .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of QT prolongation .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of QT prolongation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Androgen Deprivation • Inform patients about adverese reactions related to androgen deprivation therapy with FIRMAGON , including hot flashes , flushing of the skin , increased weight , decreased sex drive , and difficulties with erectile function [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Injection Site Reactions • Inform patients that FIRMAGON may cause redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
Advise patients that these adverse reactions are usually mild , self limiting , and decrease within three days [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility • Inform patients that FIRMAGON may cause infertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
MANUFACTURED FOR : FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS INC . , PARSIPPANY , NJ 07054 Manufactured in Germany 02 / 2020 Patient Information FIRMAGON ( FIRM - uh - gahn ) ( degarelix for injection ) What is FIRMAGON ?
FIRMAGON is a prescription medicine used in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer .
It is not known if FIRMAGON is safe or effective in children .
Who should not receive FIRMAGON ?
Do not receive FIRMAGON if you are allergic to degarelix or any ingredient in FIRMAGON .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in FIRMAGON .
Talk to your healthcare provider before receiving FIRMAGON if you have any of these conditions .
Before receiving FIRMAGON , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have any heart problems including a condition called long QT syndrome .
• have problems with blood levels such as sodium , potassium , calcium , and magnesium • have kidney or liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
FIRMAGON can cause harm to your unborn baby and loss of pregnancy ( miscarriage ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if FIRMAGON passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will receive FIRMAGON or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How will I receive FIRMAGON ?
You will receive an injection of FIRMAGON from your healthcare provider .
• The injection site will always be in the stomach ( abdominal area ) .
The injection site will change within the stomach area each time you receive a dose of FIRMAGON .
• Two injections are given as a first dose .
The following monthly doses are one injection .
• Do not rub or scratch the injection site .
Make sure your injection site is free of any pressure from belts , waistbands or other types of clothing .
• Always set up an appointment for your next injection .
What are the possible side effects of FIRMAGON ?
FIRMAGON can cause serious side effects , including : • Serious allergic reactions .
Get medical help right away if you get any of these symptoms : • trouble breathing or wheezing • severe itching • swelling of your face , lips , mouth , or tongue • Disorder of the heart ' s electrical activity .
Your healthcare provider may do tests during treatment with FIRMAGON to check your heart for a condition called long QT syndrome .
The common side effects of FIRMAGON include : • injection site pain , redness , and swelling • hot flashes • weight gain • increase in some liver enzymes Other side effects include decreased sex drive and erectile function problems .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of FIRMAGON .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use FIRMAGON for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give FIRMAGON to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about FIRMAGON that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in FIRMAGON ?
Active ingredient : degarelix ( as acetate ) Inactive ingredient : mannitol MANUFACTURED FOR : FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS INC . , PARSIPPANY , NJ 07054 Manufactured in Germany For more information , go to www . FIRMAGON . com or call 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
02 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 240 mg Kit Carton NDC 55566 - 8403 - 1 FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS FIRMAGON ® 240 mg * ( degarelix for injection ) * 240 mg dose administered from two vials each containing 120 mg For single use subcutaneous injection only Discard unused portion Kit contents : 2 vials each with 120 mg powder for injection 2 syringes with Sterile Water for Injection , USP for reconstitution / administration 2 vial adapters 2 administration needles Starting Dose Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg Kit Carton NDC 55566 - 8303 - 1 FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS FIRMAGON ® 80 mg ( degarelix for injection ) For single use subcutaneous injection only Discard unused portion Kit contents : 1 vial with 80 mg powder for injection 1 syringe with Sterile Water for Injection , USP for reconstitution / administration 1 vial adapter 1 administration needle Maintenance Dose ( 28 Days ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
