[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is indicated for the lowering of intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is an alpha - 2 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the lowering of intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % in the affected eye ( s ) three - times daily , approximately 8 hours apart .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used , the products should be administered at least 5 minutes apart .
• • Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) three - times daily ( 2 ) .
• • If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used , the products should be administered at least 5 minutes apart ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution , 1 . 5 mg / mL .
Solution containing 1 . 5 mg / mL brimonidine tartrate ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 . 1 ) .
4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Potentiation of vascular insufficiency ( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Potentiation of Vascular Insufficiency Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % may potentiate syndromes associated with vascular insufficiency .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % should be used with caution in patients with depression , cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , orthostatic hypotension , or thromboangiitis obliterans .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are allergic conjunctivitis , conjunctival hyperemia , and eye pruritis ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse events occurring in approximately 10 - 20 % of the subjects included : allergic conjunctivitis , conjunctival hyperemia , and eye pruritis .
Adverse events occurring in approximately 5 - 9 % of the subjects included : burning sensation , conjunctival folliculosis , hypertension , ocular allergic reaction , oral dryness , and visual disturbance .
Events occurring in approximately 1 - 4 % of subjects included : allergic reaction , arthralgia , arthritis , asthenia , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , blurred vision , bronchitis , cataract , chest pain , conjunctival edema , conjunctival hemorrhage , conjunctivitis , cough , dizziness , diabetes mellitus , dyspepsia , dyspnea , epiphora , eye discharge , eye dryness , eye irritation , eye pain , eyelid edema , eyelid erythema , fatigue , flu syndrome , follicular conjunctivitis , foreign body sensation , gastrointestinal disorder , headache , hypercholesterolemia , hypotension , infection , insomnia , joint disorder , keratitis , lid disorder , osteoporosis , pharyngitis , photophobia , rash , rhinitis , sinus infection , sinusitis , somnolence , stinging , superficial punctate keratopathy , tearing , visual field defect , vitreous detachment , vitreous disorder , vitreous floaters , and worsened visual acuity .
The following events were reported in less than 1 % of subjects : corneal erosion , nasal dryness , and taste perversion .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following events have been identified during post - marketing use of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions , or a combination of these factors , include : bradycardia , iritis , miosis , skin reactions ( including erythema , eyelid pruritis , rash , and vasodilation ) , and tachycardia .
Apnea , bradycardia , hypotension , hypothermia , hypotonia , and somnolence have been reported in infants receiving brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Concomitant use with systemic beta - blockers may potentiate systemic beta - blockade ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • Use with CNS depressants may result in an additive or potentiating effect ( 7 . 2 ) .
• • Tricyclic antidepressants may potentially blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine ( 7 . 3 ) .
• • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may result in increased hypotension ( 7 . 4 ) .
7 . 1 Anti - hypertensives / Cardiac Glycosides Alpha - 2 agonists , as a class , may reduce blood pressure .
Caution in using drugs such as beta - blockers ( ophthalmic and systemic ) , anti - hypertensives and / or cardiac glycosides is advised .
7 . 2 CNS Depressants Although specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % , the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants ( alcohol , barbiturates , opiates , sedatives , or anesthetics ) should be considered .
7 . 3 Tricyclic Antidepressants Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine .
It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % in humans can lead to resulting interference with its IOP - lowering effect .
Caution , however , is advised in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants , which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine and potentially result in an increased systemic side - effect such as hypotension .
Caution is advised in patients taking MAO inhibitors which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Not for use in children below the age of 2 years ( 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category : B Reproductive studies performed in rats and rabbits with oral doses of 0 . 66 mg base / kg revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % .
Dosing at this level produced an exposure in rats and rabbits that is 80 and 40 times higher than the exposure seen in humans , respectively .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
In animal studies , brimonidine crossed the placenta and entered into the fetal circulation to a limited extent .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
In animal studies , brimonidine tartrate was excreted in breast milk .
A decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use In a well - controlled clinical study conducted in pediatric glaucoma patients ( ages 2 to 7 years ) , the most commonly observed adverse events with brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % dosed three - times - daily were somnolence ( 50 % - 83 % in patients ages 2 to 6 years ) and decreased alertness .
In pediatric patients 7 years of age or older ( > 20 kg ) , somnolence appears to occur less frequently ( 25 % ) .
Approximately 16 % of patients on brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution discontinued from the study due to somnolence .
The safety and effectiveness of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution have not been studied in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdosage in humans .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
11 DESCRIPTION Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % ( 1 . 5 mg brimonidine tartrate per mL equivalent to 1 . 0 mg brimonidine free base per mL ) is a relatively selective alpha - 2 - adrenergic agonist for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name of brimonidine tartrate is 5 - bromo - 6 - ( 2 - imidazolidinylideneamino ) quinoxaline L - tartrate .
It is an off - white to pale yellow powder .
It has a molecular weight of 442 . 24 as the tartrate salt , and is both soluble in water ( 1 . 5 mg / mL ) and in the product vehicle ( 3 . 0 mg / mL ) at pH 7 . 2 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Formula : C11H10BrN5 • C4H6O6 CAS Number : 59803 - 98 - 4 In solution , Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % has a clear , greenish - yellow color .
It has an osmolality of 250 - 350 mOsmol / kg and a pH of 6 . 6 - 7 . 4 .
Contains : Active ingredient : brimonidine tartrate 1 . 5 mg / mL , Preservative : POLYQUAD * 0 . 01 mg / mL , Inactives : povidone , boric acid , sodium borate , calcium chloride , magnesium chloride , potassium chloride , mannitol , sodium chloride , purified water , with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is an alpha - 2 adrenergic receptor agonist .
Fluorophotometric studies in animals and humans suggest that brimonidine tartrate has a dual mechanism of action by reducing aqueous humor production and increasing uveoscleral outflow .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % has a peak ocular hypotensive effect occurring at two hours post - dosing .
Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
Brimonidine tartrate has the action of lowering intraocular pressure with minimal effect on cardiovascular and pulmonary parameters .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a pharmacokinetic study , 14 healthy subjects ( 4 males and 10 females ) received a single topical ocular administration of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % , one drop per eye .
The peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and AUC0 - inf were 73 ± 19 pg / mL and 375 ± 89 pg • hr / mL , respectively .
Tmax was 1 . 7 ± 0 . 7 hours after dosing .
The systemic half - life was approximately 2 . 1 hours .
Metabolism Brimonidine is metabolized primarily by the liver .
In vitro metabolism data from human microsomal fractions and liver slices indicate that brimonidine undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism .
Excretion Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of brimonidine and its metabolites .
Approximately 87 % of an orally administered radioactive dose of brimonidine was eliminated within 120 hours , with 74 % of the radioactivity recovered in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No compound - related carcinogenic effects were observed in either mice or rats following a 21 - month and a 24 - month study , respectively .
In these studies , dietary administration of brimonidine tartrate at doses up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day in mice and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day in rats achieved 60 and 50 times , respectively , the plasma drug concentration estimated in humans treated with one drop of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % into both eyes .
Brimonidine tartrate was not mutagenic or cytogenic in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies including the Ames test , chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , a host - mediated assay and cytogenic studies in mice , and dominant lethal assay .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A clinical study was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % compared to Alphagan ® P ** administered three times daily in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
The results indicated that Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is equivalent in IOP - lowering effect to Alphagan ® P ( brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution ) , 0 . 15 % , and effectively lowers IOP in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension by 2 - 6 mmHg .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is supplied sterile in opaque white LDPE plastic bottles and natural tips with purple polypropylene caps as follows : 5 mL in 8 mL bottle NDC : 63629 - 8792 - 1 Storage : Store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION As with other drugs in this class , Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % may cause fatigue and / or drowsiness in some patients .
Patients who engage in hazardous activities should be cautioned of the potential for a decrease in mental alertness .
Rx Only * POLYQUAD is a registered trademark of Alcon Research , Ltd .
** ALPHAGAN P is a registered trademark of Allergan , Inc .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Printed in USA Brimonidine Tartrate Ophth 0 . 15 % Sol .
# 5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
