1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is indicated for : Atropine is an anti - muscarinic agent indicated for : • cycloplegia ( 1 . 1 ) • mydriasis ( 1 . 2 ) • penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Cycloplegia 1 . 2 Mydriasis 1 . 3 Penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • In individuals from three ( 3 ) months of age or greater , 1 drop topically to the cul - de - sac of the conjunctiva , forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time ( 2 ) • In individuals 3 years of age or greater , doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed .
( 2 ) In individuals from three ( 3 ) months of age or greater , 1 drop topically to the cul - de - sac of the conjunctiva , forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time .
In individuals 3 years of age or greater , doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % : each mL contains 10 mg of atropine sulfate equivalent to 8 . 3 mg of atropine .
1 % ophthalmic solution ( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to any ingredient in formulation ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity to any Component of this Medication Atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution should not be used in anyone who has demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity or known allergic reaction to any ingredient of the formulation because it may recur .
5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Photophobia and blurred vision due to pupil unresponsiveness and cycloplegia may last up to 2 weeks .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk of blood pressure increase from systemic absorption ( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Photophobia and Blurred Vision Photophobia and blurred vision due to pupil unresponsiveness and cycloplegia may last up to 2 weeks .
5 . 2 Elevation of Blood Pressure Elevation in blood pressure from systemic absorption has been reported following conjunctival instillation of recommended doses of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Photophobia and Blurred Vision [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Elevation in Blood Pressure [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most common adverse reactions that have been reported are eye pain and stinging on administration , blurred vision , photophobia , decreased lacrimation , increased heart rate and blood pressure ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Eye pain and stinging occurs upon instillation of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution .
Other commonly occurring adverse reactions include , blurred vision , photophobia , superficial keratitis and decreased lacrimation .
Allergic reactions such as papillary conjunctivitis , contact dermatitis , and lid edema may also occur less commonly .
6 . 2 Systemic Adverse Reactions Systemic effects of atropine are related to its anti - muscarinic activity .
Systemic adverse events reported include dryness of skin , mouth , and throat from decreased secretions from mucus membranes ; restlessness , irritability or delirium from stimulation of the central nervous system ; tachycardia ; flushed skin of the face and neck .
7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS The use of atropine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) is generally not recommended because of the potential to precipitate hypertensive crisis .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) The use of atropine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) is generally not recommended because of the potential to precipitate hypertensive crisis .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Should only be used in pregnant women if clearly needed ( 8 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of atropine sulfate in pregnant women .
Animal development and reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine sulfate .
Since it is not known whether topically administered atropine sulfate can cause fetal harm , atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Traces of atropine have been found in human milk following administration of atropine solution for injection .
Because some systemic absorption occurs from topical administration , caution should be exercised when Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Due to the potential for systemic absorption of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , the use of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % in children under the age of 3 months is not recommended and the use in children under 3 years of age should be limited to no more than one drop per eye per day .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of accidental ingestion or toxic overdosage with atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , supportive care may include a short acting barbiturate or diazepam as needed to control marked excitement and convulsions .
Large doses for sedation should be avoided because central depressant action may coincide with the depression occurring late in atropine poisoning .
Central stimulants are not recommended .
Physostigmine , given by slow intravenous injection of 1 to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg in pediatric populations ) , rapidly abolishes delirium and coma caused by large doses of atropine .
Since physostigmine is rapidly destroyed , the patient may again lapse into coma after one to two hours , and repeated doses may be required .
Artificial respiration with oxygen may be necessary .
Cooling measures may be needed to help to reduce fever , especially in pediatric populations .
The fatal adult dose of atropine is not known .
In pediatric populations , 10 mg or less may be fatal .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is a sterile topical anticholinergic for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : Benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 . ]
oct - 3 - yl ester , endo – ( ± ) - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , monohydrate .
Molecular Formula : ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • H2O Molecular Weight : 694 . 83 g / mol Each mL of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % contains : Active : atropine sulfate 10 mg equivalent to 8 . 3 mg of atropine .
Inactives : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hypromellose ( 2910 ) , monobasic sodium phosphate , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 5 to 6 .
0 ) , and water for injection USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atropine is a reversible antagonist of muscarine - like actions of acetyl - choline and is therefore classified as an antimuscarinic agent .
Atropine is relatively selective for muscarinic receptors .
Its potency at nicotinic receptors is much lower , and actions at non - muscarinic receptors are generally undetectable clinically .
Atropine does not distinguish among the M1 , M2 , and M3 subgroups of muscarinic receptors .
The pupillary constrictor muscle depends on muscarinic cholinoceptor activation .
This activation is blocked by topical atropine resulting in unopposed sympathetic dilator activity and mydriasis .
Atropine also weakens the contraction of the ciliary muscle , or cycloplegia .
Cycloplegia results in loss of the ability to accommodate such that the eye cannot focus for near vision .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The onset of action after administration of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % , is usually within 40 minutes with maximal effect being reached in about 2 hours .
The effect can last for up to 2 weeks in a normal eye .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The bioavailability of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % was assessed in six healthy subjects , 24 to 29 years of age .
Subjects received either 0 . 3 mg atropine sulfate administered as bolus intravenous injection or 0 . 3 mg administered as 30 μl instilled unilaterally in the cul - de - sac of the eye .
Plasma l - hyoscyamine concentrations were determined over selected intervals up to eight hours after dose administration .
The mean bioavailability of topically applied atropine was 63 . 5 ± 29 % ( range 19 to 95 % ) with large inter - individual differences .
Mean maximum observed plasma concentration for the ophthalmic solution was 288 ± 73 pg / mL .
Maximum concentration was reached in 28 ± 27 min after administration .
Terminal half - life of l - hyoscamine was not affected by route of administration and was calculated to be 3 ± 1 . 2 hours ( intravenous ) and 2 . 5 ± 0 . 8 hours ( topical ophthalmic ) .
In another placebo - controlled study , the systemic exposure to l - hyoscyamine , and the anti - cholinergic effects of atropine were investigated in eight ocular surgery patients 56 to 66 years of age , following single topical ocular 0 . 4 mg atropine dose ( given as 40 microliters of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % ) .
The mean ( ± standard deviation ( SD ) ) Cmax of l - hyoscyamine in these patients was 860 ± 402 pg / mL , achieved within 8 minutes of eyedrop instillation .
Following intravenous administration , the mean ( ± SD ) elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of atropine was reported to be longer in pediatric subjects under 2 years ( 6 . 9 ± 3 . 3 hours ) and in geriatric patients 65 to 75 years ( 10 . 0 ± 7 . 3 hours ) , compared to in children over 2 years ( 2 . 5 ± 1 . 2 hours ) and in adults 16 to 58 years ( 3 . 0 ± 0 . 9 hours ) .
( see 8 . 4 Pediatric Use ) .
Atropine is destroyed by enzymatic hydrolysis , particularly in the liver ; from 13 to 50 % is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Traces are found in various secretions , including milk .
The major metabolites of atropine are noratropine , atropin - n - oxide , tropine , and tropic acid .
Atropine readily crosses the placental barrier and enters the fetal circulation , but is not found in amniotic fluid .
Atropine binds poorly ( about 44 % ) to plasma protein , mainly to alpha - 1 acid glycoprotein ; age has no effect on the serum protein binding of atropine .
Atropine binding to α - 1 acid glycoprotein was concentration dependent ( 2 to 20 mcg / mL ) and nonlinear in vitro and in vivo .
There is no gender effect on the pharmacokinetics of atropine administered by injection .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Atropine sulfate was negative in the salmonella / microsome mutagenicity test .
Studies to evaluate carcinogenicity and impairment of fertility have not been conducted .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES Topical administration of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 1 % results in cycloplegia and mydriasis which has been demonstrated in several controlled clinical studies in adults and pediatric patients .
Maximal mydriasis usually occurs in about 40 minutes and maximal cycloplegia is usually achieved in about 60 to 90 minutes after single administration .
Full recovery usually occurs in approximately one week , but may last a couple of weeks .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 3104 NDC : 50090 - 3104 - 0 5 mL in a BOTTLE , DROPPER / 1 in a CARTON 17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients not to touch the dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
Advise patients that drops will sting upon instillation and advise patients that they will experience sensitivity to light and blurred vision which may last for a couple of weeks .
AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake forest , IL 60045 AS00N Rev . 10 / 16 Atropine Sulfate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
