Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Camphor 5 . 5 % Topical analgesic Menthol 16 % Topical analgesic Use For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises and sprains .
Warnings For external use only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use : if you ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
When using this product • ⬥ avoid contact with eyes • ⬥ do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • ⬥ do not bandage tightly • ⬥ do not use in large quantities • ⬥ do not use with heating pads , medicated patches or heating devices .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • ⬥ condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • ⬥ pain , swelling , blistering develops where product is used • ⬥ redness or severe burning sensation develops where product is used .
If you are pregnant or nursing , seek the advice of a health professional before using .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • ⬥ apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information • ⬥ protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • ⬥ store at room temperature .
Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , aminomethyl propanol , boswellia serrata resin extract , carbomer , disodium EDTA , ethylhexylglycerin , eucalyptus polybractea leaf oil , Eugenia caryophyllus ( clove ) flower oil , fragrance , glycerin , linum ultatissimum ( linseed ) seed oil , mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , menthoxypropanediol , pentylene glycol , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 80 , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , thymus zygis oil , vanillyl butyl ether , water .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 567 - 8600 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 77 g Tube Label meijer ® Compare to AleveX ® Pain Relieving Lotion Active Ingredients * pain relieving lotion Camphor 5 . 5 % Menthol 16 % Topical Analgesic WITH MAXIMUM STRENGTH MENTHOL NET WT 2 . 7 OZ ( 77 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
