Directions 1 .
Note : This product cap is for dosing .
A capful contains about 17 grams of powder .
2 .
Daily dose is 17 grams per day or as directed by physician .
3 .
pour 17 grams ( about 1 heaping tablespoon ) of powder into a cup .
4 .
Stir the powder in 4 to 8 oz .
of water , juice , soda , coffee or tea until completely dissolved .
5 .
Drink the solution .
6 .
Treatment for 2 to 4 days may required to produce a bowel movement .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) Lot # and Exp .
Date : Open here for more product information PATIENT INFORMATION Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF ( Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder for Oral Solution ) is a MEDICAL FOOD prescription only laxative which has been prescribed by your healthcare provider to manage constipation .
This product should only be used by the person for whom it was prescribed .
How to take The dose is 17 grams taken by mouth each day or as directed by your healthcare provider .
Measure the dose using the product cap ( or use one heaping tablespoon of powder ) , stir and dissolve in a glass ( 4 to 8 oz . )
of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Taking more than the prescribed dose may cause loss of fluid due to severe diarrhea .
How it will work Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF ( PEG 3350 ) NF ) softens the stool and increases the frequency of bowel movements by retaining water in the stool .
Your first bowel movement will usually happen in two to four days , although results may vary for individual patients .
How long should it take Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF achieves the best results when used between one and two weeks .
You may discontinue therapy after you have had several satisfactory bowel movements or diarrhea .
Should unusual cramps , bloating , or diarrhea occur , consult your physician .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF is intended for up to a two week course of therapy .
You should not use for a longer time unless directed by your physician .
Next Steps After successfully completing Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF therapy ( usually between one and two weeks , ) please discuss with your healthcare provider lifestyle changes which may produce more regular bowel habits such as adequate dietary and fluid intake , and regular exercise .
Who should not take Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF PEG 3350 NF should not be used by children and pregnant women unless prescribed by a physician .
Side Effects / Drug Reactions Occasionally , Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF may cause nausea , stomach fullness , cramping , diarrhea and / or gas .
Do not take if you have symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or distension , which may be due to bowel obstruction .
On a rare occasions hives and skin rashes have been reported which are suggestive of an allergic reaction .
If you get an allergic reaction reaction , you should stop using PEG 3350 NF , and call your physician .
if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol , do not use this product .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder for Oral Solution A white powder for reconstitution .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 ( Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder For Oral Solution ) is a synthetic polyglycol having an average molecular weight of 3350 .
The actual molecular weight is not less than 90 . 0 percent and not greater than 110 . 0 percent of the normal value .
The chemical formula is HO ( C2H4O ) nH in which n represents the average number of ethylene groups .
Below 55 ° it is a free flowing white powder freely soluble in water .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF is an osmotic agent for the treatment of constipation .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacology : Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF is an osmotic agent which causes water to be retained with the stool .
Essentially , complete recovery of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF was shown in normal subjects without constipation .
Attempts at recovery of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF in constipated patients resulted in incomplete and highly variable recovery .
In vitro study showed indirectly that Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF was not fermented into hydrogen or methane by the colonic mircoflora in human feces .
Polyethylene Glycol 3355 NF appears to have no effect on the active absorption or secretion of glucose or electrolytes .
There is no evidence of tachyphylaxis .
CLINICAL TRIALS In one study , patients with less than 3 bowel movements per week were randomized to Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF , 17 grams or placebo for 14 days .
An increase in bowel movement frequency was observed for both treatment groups during the first week of treatment .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF was statistically superior to placebo during the second week of treatment .
In another study , patients with 3 bowel movements or less per week and / or less than 300 grams of stool per week were randomized to 2 dose levels of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF or placebo for 10 days each .
Success was defined by an increase in both bowel movement frequency and daily stool weight .
For both parameters , superiority of the 17 gram dose of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF over the placebo was demonstrated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of occasional constipation .
This product should be used for 2 weeks or less as directed by a physician .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected bowel obstruction and patients known to be allergic to polyethylene glycol .
WARNINGS Patients with symptoms suggestive of bowel obstruction ( nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or distention ) should be evaluated to rule out this condition before initiating Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF therapy .
PRECAUTIONS General : Patients presenting with complaints of constipation should have a thorough medical history and physical examination to detect associated metabolic endocrine and neurogenic conditions and medications .
A diagnostic evaluation should include a structural examination of the colon .
Patients should be educated about a good defecatory and eating habits ( such as high fiber diets ) and lifestyle changes ( adequate dietary fiber and fluid intake , regular exercise ) which may produce regular bowel habits .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF should be administered after being dissolved in approximately 4 to 8 ounces of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Information for Patients : Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF softens stool and increases the frequency of bowel movement by retaining water in the stool .
It should always be taken by mouth after being dissolved in 4 to 8 ounces of water , juice , soda , coffee or tea .
Should unusual cramps , bloating or diarrhea occur , consult your physician .
Two to four days may be required to produce a bowel movement .
This product should be used for 2 weeks or less or as directed by your physician .
prolonged , frequent or excessive use of Polyethylene Glyycol 3350 NF may result in electrolyte imbalance and dependency on laxatives .
Laboratory Tests : No clinically significant effects on laboratory tests have been demonstrated .
Drug Interaction : No specific drug interactions have been demonstrated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long term carcinogenicity studies , genetic toxicity studies or reproductive toxicity studies in animals have not been performed with Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproductive studies have not been performed with Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF .
It is not known wheter Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF can cause fetal harm when administered in a pregnant woman , or can affect reproductive capacity .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF should only be administered to a pregnant woman if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established .
Geriatric Use : There is no evidence for special consideration when Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF is administered to elderly patients .
In geriatric nursing home patients a higher incidence of diarrhea occurred at the recommended 17 g dose .
If diarrhea occurs Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF should be discontinued ..
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea , abdominal bloating , cramping and flatulence may occur .
High doses may produce diarrhea and excessive stool frequency , particularly in elderly nursing home patients .
Patients taking other medications containing polyethylene glycol occasionally developed hives suggestive of an allergic reaction .
OVERDOSE There have been no reports of accidental overdose .
In the event of overdose , diarrhea would be the expected major event .
If an overdose occurred without conomitant ingestion of fluids , dehydration due to diarrhea may result .
Treatment should be terminated and free water administered .
The oral LD50 is > 50 g / kg in mice , rats and rabbits .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose is 17 grams ( about 1 heaping tablespoon ) of powder in 4 to 8 ounces of water , juice , soda , coffee or tea daily or as directed by physician .
Each bottle of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 NF has a cap that holds 17 grams of laxative powder when filled to the top . Two to four days ( 48 to 96 hours0 may be required to produce a bowel movement .
HOW SUPPLIED PEG 3350 NF is supplied in powder form for oral administration after dissolution in water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Rx only .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) : excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) Product Label Product Insert M . E . Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
58607 - 700 - 57 Prescription Powder for Oral Solution Polyethylene Gylcol 3350 NF PEGyLAX Rx Only 527 Grams MADE WITH PRIDE IN THE U . S . A . M . E . Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Richmond , IN 47374 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
