1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % is indicated to dilate the pupil .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated to dilate the pupil ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • For patients 1 year of age and older , apply one drop of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % or 10 % at 3 to 5 minute intervals up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • In pediatric patients less than 1 year of age , one drop of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be instilled at 3 to 5 minute intervals up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 General Dosing Recommendations For patients 1 year of age or greater , apply one drop of either Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % or 10 % every 3 to 5 minutes to the conjunctival fornix as required up to a maximum of 3 drops .
If necessary , this dose may be repeated .
In order to obtain a greater degree of mydriasis , Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % may be needed .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients Less Than 1 Year of Age In pediatric patients less than 1 year of age , one drop of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be instilled at 3 to 5 minute intervals up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % is a clear , colorless , sterile topical ophthalmic solution containing phenylephrine hydrochloride 2 . 5 % .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % is a clear , colorless , sterile topical ophthalmic solution containing phenylephrine hydrochloride 10 % .
2 . 5 % and 10 % sterile ophthalmic solutions ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % is contraindicated in patients with hypertension , or thyrotoxicosis .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients ( 4 . 1 ) .
• • Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % .
Is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age due to the increased risk of systemic toxicity .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients ( 4 . 2 ) .
4 . 1 Cardiac and Endocrine Disease Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % is contraindicated in patients with hypertension , or thyrotoxicosis .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients .
4 . 2 Pediatric Patients Less Than 1 Year of Age Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age due to the increased risk of systemic toxicity .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Not for injection .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP is indicated for topical ophthalmic use ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Reports of serious cardiovascular reactions , some fatal , with Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % solution .
Monitor blood pressure in patients with cardiovascular disease ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Significant elevations in blood pressure have been reported .
Caution in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age , and in patients with elevated blood pressure ( 5 . 3 ) .
• • Rebound miosis has been reported one day after instillation ( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % is not indicated for injection .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Reactions There have been reports of serious cardiovascular reactions , including ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial infarctions , in patients using phenylephrine 10 % .
These episodes , some fatal , have usually occurred in patients with pre - existing cardiovascular diseases .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients .
5 . 3 Elevation in Blood Pressure A significant elevation in blood pressure is not common but has been reported following conjunctival instillation of recommended doses of phenylephrine 10 % .
The risk is less with phenylephrine 2 . 5 % .
Caution should be exercised with the use of phenylephrine 10 % in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age and patients with hyperthyroidism or cardiovascular disease .
The post - treatment blood pressure of patients with cardiac and endocrine diseases and any patients who develop symptoms should be carefully monitored .
5 . 4 Rebound Miosis Rebound miosis has been reported one day after receiving phenylephrine ophthalmic solution , and re instillation of the drug produced a lesser mydriatic effect .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • • Cardiac Disease [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Elevation in Blood Pressure [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Ocular adverse reactions include eye pain and stinging on instillation , temporary blurred vision , and photophobia ( 6 . 1 ) .
• • Cardiovascular adverse reactions include increase in blood pressure , syncope , myocardial infarction , tachycardia , arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage ( 6 . 2 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Paragon BioTeck , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 424 - 1192 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Eye pain and stinging on instillation , temporary blurred vision and photophobia , and conjunctival sensitization may occur .
6 . 2 Systemic Adverse Reactions A marked increase in blood pressure has been reported particularly , but not limited to , low weight premature neonates , infants and hypertensive patients .
Cardiovascular reactions which have occurred primarily in hypertensive patients following topical ocular use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10 % include marked increase in blood pressure , syncope , myocardial infarction , tachycardia , arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2and5 . 3 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • May exaggerate the adrenergic pressor response in patients taking atropine - like drugs ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • May potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of potent inhalation anesthetic agents ( 7 . 1 ) .
7 . 1 Agents That May Exaggerate Pressor Responses Concomitant use of phenylephrine and atropine may enhance the pressor effects and induce tachycardia in some patients .
Phenylephrine may potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of some inhalation anesthetic agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical phenylephrine .
It is also not known whether phenylephrine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of phenylephrine may cause a rapid rise in blood pressure .
It may also cause headache , anxiety , nausea , and vomiting and ventricular arrhythmias .
Prompt injection of a rapidly acting alpha - adrenergic blocking agent such as phentolamine has been recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % is a sterile , clear , colorless , topical mydriatic agent for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name is ( R ) - 3 - hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzenemethanol hydrochloride .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine hydrochloride has a molecular weight of 203 . 67 and an empirical formula of C9H13NO2 - HCl .
Each mL of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , 2 . 5 % contains : ACTIVE : phenylephrine hydrochloride 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) ; INACTIVES : sodium phosphate monobasic , sodium phosphate dibasic ; boric acid , water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
The solution has a tonicity of 500 mOsm / kg ; PRESERVATIVE : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Each mL of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % contains : ACTIVE : phenylephrine hydrochloride 100 mg ( 10 % ) ; INACTIVES : sodium phosphate monobasic , sodium phosphate dibasic ; water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
The solution has a tonicity of 1000 mOsm / kg ; PRESERVATIVE : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phenylephrine is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist used for dilation of the pupil due to its vasoconstrictor and mydriatic action .
Phenylephrine possesses predominantly α - adrenergic effects .
In the eye , phenylephrine acts locally as a potent vasoconstrictor and mydriatic , by constricting ophthalmic blood vessels and the radial muscle of the iris .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Maximal mydriasis occurs in 20 - 90 minutes with recovery after 3 to 8 hours .
Systemic absorption of sufficient quantities of phenylephrine may lead to systemic α - adrenergic effects , such as rise in blood pressure which may be accompanied by a reflex atropine - sensitive bradycardia .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The systemic exposure following topical administration of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution has not been studied .
A higher systemic absorption is expected for the 10 % solution and when the corneal barrier function has been compromised .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Pupillary dilation following topical administration of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution has been demonstrated in controlled clinical studies in adults and pediatric patients with different levels of iris pigmentation .
Pupil movement is generally seen with 15 minutes , maximal mydriasis between 20 to 90 minutes and recovery after 3 to 8 hours .
Darker irides tend to dilate slower than lighter irides .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % is supplied as a sterile , aqueous , topical ophthalmic solution with a fill volume of 10 mL in a 10 mL opaque , white low density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottle with a linear low density polyethylene ( LLDPE ) dropper tip and red cap ( NDC 42702 - 102 - 10 ) , and a fill volume of 15 mL in a 15 mL opaque , white LDPE bottle with an LLDPE dropper tip and red cap ( NDC 42702 - 102 - 15 ) .
Phenylephrine HCl Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % is supplied as a sterile , aqueous , topical ophthalmic solution supplied with a fill volume of 5 mL in a 10 mL opaque , white LDPE bottle with an LLDPE dropper tip and red cap .
( NDC 42702 - 103 - 05 ) .
Storage and Handling : Store at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Do not use if solution is brown or contains a precipitate .
After opening , Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients not to touch the dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
Inform patients they may experience sensitivity to light and should protect their eyes in bright illumination while their pupils are dilated .
Distributed by : Paragon BioTeck , Inc 4640 S Macadam Ave , Ste 80 Portland , OR 97239 Paragon BioTeck , Inc .
Portland , OR 97239 © Paragon BioTeck , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
