Drug Facts Active Ingredient Zinc Oxide 20 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply generously and evenly to all skin exposed to sun 15 minutes before sun exposure • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Reapply • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours Other Information • Protect the product in this container from exessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil * , Cocos nucifera ( Fractionated Coconut ) Oil * , Cera Alba ( Beeswax ) * , Helianthus Annus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil * , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil * , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Oil * , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter * , Tocopherol , Rubus Idaeus ( Red Raspberry ) Seed Oil * , Argania Spinosa ( Argan ) Kernel Oil * , Rosa Canina ( Rosehip ) Seed Oil * , Calendula Officinalis ( Calendula ) Flower Extract * * Organic Questions or comments ?
503 - 607 - 0607 or earthmamaorganics . com earth mama Mineral Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 25 Dermatologist tested and clinically tested for irritation Water Resistant ( 40 Minutes ) UVA / UVB Protection Contains Organic Argan Oil & Organic Red Raspberry Seed Oil Non - Nano , NO Parabens , NO Artificial Fragrance NSF contains organic ingredients Net Wt 84 g ( 3 oz ) SPF 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
