Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 9 % , Octisalate 4 . 5 % , Octocrylene 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition – No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics .
Directions Shake well .
Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply .
Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face .
Do not apply in windy conditions .
Use in a well - ventilated area .
Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
Immediately after towel drying .
At least every 2 hours .
Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Inactive Ingredient Water , Isobutane , Isohexadecane , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Myrica Cerifera ( Bayberry ) Fruit Wax , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Sodium Chloride , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Sodium Citrate .
Other information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SafeSun , Mon - Fri BANANA BOAT simply protect baby SUNSCREEN LOTION SPRAY UVA / UVB BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + 50 + 25 % FEWER INGREDIENTS MADE WITHOUT OXYBENZONE & PARABENS tear free No Added Oils & Fragrances Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
