1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FUROSEMIDE INJECTION is a loop diuretic indicated for : • • The treatment of edema associated with heart failure , cirrhosis of the liver , and renal disease ( 1 . 1 ) • • Acute pulmonary edema as adjunctive therapy ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Edema Furosemide Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure , cirrhosis of the liver , and renal disease , including the nephrotic syndrome .
1 . 2 Acute Pulmonary Edema Furosemide Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in acute pulmonary edema .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema : • • Initial dose is 20 mg to 40 mg once given intramuscularly or intravenously .
The intravenous dose should be administered slowly over 1 minute to 2 minutes ( 2 . 2 ) • • If needed , a second dose may be administered 2 hours after the first dose ( 2 . 2 ) Acute Pulmonary Edema : • • Initial dose is 40 mg injected slowly intravenously over 1 minute to 2 minutes ( 2 . 2 ) • • If needed , a second dose is 80 mg injected intravenously slowly in 1 minute to 2 minutes ( 2 . 2 ) Pediatric Dosage : • • The initial dose in pediatric patients is 1 mg / kg body weight once given slowly intramuscularly or intravenously .
If needed , dosage may be increased by 1 mg / kg not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose , until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained .
Doses greater than 6 mg / kg body weight are not recommended ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 General Considerations Inspect Furosemide Injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Adults Edema Individualize therapy according to patient response .
The usual initial dose of furosemide is 20 mg to 40 mg given as a single - dose , injected intramuscularly or intravenously .
Give the intravenous dose slowly ( over 1 minute to 2 minutes ) .
If needed , administer another dose in the same manner 2 hours later or increase the dose .
The dose may be raised by 20 mg and administered not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained .
Administer this individually determined single - dose once or twice daily .
If the physician elects to use high - dose parenteral therapy , add the furosemide to either 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP , Lactated Ringer ' s Injection USP , or Dextrose Injection 5 % , USP , after pH has been adjusted to above 5 . 5 , and administer as a controlled intravenous infusion at a rate not greater than 4 mg / min .
Furosemide Injection is a buffered alkaline solution with a pH of about 9 and the drug may precipitate at pH values below 7 .
Care must be taken to ensure that the pH of the prepared infusion solution is in the weakly alkaline to neutral range .
Acid solutions , including other parenteral medications ( e . g . , labetalol , ciprofloxacin , amrinone , milrinone ) must not be administered concurrently in the same infusion because they may cause precipitation of the furosemide .
Acute Pulmonary Edema The usual initial dose of furosemide is 40 mg injected slowly intravenously ( over 1 minute to 2 minutes ) .
If a satisfactory response does not occur within 1 hour , increase the dose to 80 mg injected slowly intravenously ( over 1 minute to 2 minutes ) .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients The usual initial dose of Furosemide Injection ( intravenously or intramuscularly ) in pediatric patients is 1 mg / kg body weight administered slowly ( over 1 minute to 2 minutes ) .
If the diuretic response to the initial dose is not satisfactory , dosage may be increased by 1 mg / kg not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose , until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained .
Doses greater than 6 mg / kg body weight are not recommended .
The maximum dose for premature infants should not exceed 1 mg / kg / day [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : Furosemide Injection is supplied as a sterile , colorless solution as • • 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial • • 40 mg / 4 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial • • 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial Injection : Furosemide Injection is supplied as a sterile , colorless solution as • • 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) • • 40 mg / 4 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) • • 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Furosemide Injection is contraindicated in patients with anuria .
• • Furosemide Injection is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to furosemide .
• • Anuria ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to furosemide ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities : Monitor serum electrolytes , CO2 , BUN , creatinine , glucose , and uric acid ( 5 . 1 ) • • Worsening Renal Function : Monitor for dehydration and azotemia .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Ototoxicity : Avoid rapid injection and higher than recommended doses .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • • Acute Urinary Retention : Monitor patients with symptoms of urinary retention .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities Furosemide may cause fluid , electrolyte , and metabolic abnormalities such as hypovolemia , hypokalemia , azotemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , hypomagnesemia , hypocalcemia , hyperglycemia , or hyperuricemia , particularly in patients receiving higher doses , patients with inadequate oral electrolyte intake , and in elderly patients .
Excessive diuresis may cause dehydration and blood volume reduction with circulatory collapse and possibly vascular thrombosis and embolism , particularly in elderly patients .
Serum electrolytes , CO2 , BUN , creatinine , glucose , and uric acid should be monitored frequently during furosemide therapy .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis and ascites , sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic encephalopathy and coma .
Treatment in such patients is best initiated in the hospital with small doses and careful monitoring of the patient ' s clinical status and electrolyte balance .
5 . 2 Worsening Renal Function Furosemide can cause dehydration and azotemia .
If increasing azotemia and oliguria occur during treatment of severe progressive renal disease , furosemide should be discontinued [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Furosemide use in the first year of life , especially in patients born pre - term , may precipitate nephrocalcinosis / nephrolithiasis .
Therefore renal function must be monitored and renal ultrasonography performed in this age group [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Ototoxicity Cases of tinnitus and reversible or irreversible hearing impairment and deafness have been reported .
Reports usually indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection , severe renal impairment , the use of higher than recommended doses , hypoproteinemia or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics , ethacrynic acid , or other ototoxic drugs .
If the physician elects to use high - dose parenteral therapy , controlled intravenous infusion is advisable ( for adults , an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg furosemide per minute has been used ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Hearing loss in neonates , including premature neonates has been associated with the use of Furosemide Injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Acute Urinary Retention In patients with severe symptoms of urinary retention ( because of bladder emptying disorders , prostatic hyperplasia , urethral narrowing ) , the administration of furosemide can cause acute urinary retention related to increased production and retention of urine .
Thus , these patients require careful monitoring , especially during the initial stages of treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of furosemide were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions are categorized below by organ system and listed by decreasing severity .
Gastrointestinal System Reactions : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , increased liver enzymes , anorexia , oral and gastric irritation , cramping , diarrhea , constipation , nausea , vomiting .
Systemic Hypersensitivity Reactions : severe anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions ( e . g . , with shock ) , systemic vasculitis , interstitial nephritis , necrotizing angiitis .
Central Nervous System Reactions : tinnitus and hearing loss , paresthesias , vertigo , dizziness , headache , blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Hematologic Reactions : aplastic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , anemia , eosinophilia .
Dermatologic - Hypersensitivity Reactions : toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , erythema multiforme , drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , exfoliative dermatitis , bullous pemphigoid , purpura , photosensitivity , rash .
Cardiovascular Reactions : orthostatic hypotension , increase in cholesterol and triglyceride serum levels .
Other Reactions : glycosuria , muscle spasm , weakness , restlessness , urinary bladder spasm , thrombophlebitis , transient injection site pain following intramuscular injection , fever .
Most common adverse reactions are related to fluid and electrolyte imbalance ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pfizer Inc . at 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Aminoglycoside antibiotics : Increased potential ototoxicity of the antibiotics .
Avoid combination ( 7 . 1 ) • • Ethacrynic acid : Risk of ototoxicity .
Avoid combination ( 7 . 1 ) • • Salicylates : Risk of salicylate toxicity ( 7 . 1 ) • • Cisplatin and nephrotoxic drugs : Risk of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity ( 7 . 1 ) • • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 1 ) • • Renin - angiotensin inhibitors : Increased risk of hypotension and renal failure .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Adrenergic blocking drugs : Risk of potentiation ( 7 . 1 ) • • Drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion : Risk of toxicity potentiation ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Furosemide on Other Drugs Drug / Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Aminoglycoside antibiotics Furosemide may increase the ototoxic potential of aminoglycoside antibiotics , especially in the presence of impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid combination except in life - threatening situations .
Ethacrynic acid Possibility of ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant use with ethacrynic acid .
Salicylates May experience salicylate toxicity at lower doses because of competitive renal excretory sites .
Monitor for symptoms of salicylate toxicity .
Cisplatin There is a risk of ototoxic effects if cisplatin and furosemide are given concomitantly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cisplatin and nephrotoxic drugs Nephrotoxicity Administer furosemide at lower doses and with postitive fluid balance when used to achieve forced diuresis during cisplatin treatment .
Monitor renal function .
Paralytic agents Furosemide has a tendency to antagonize the skeletal muscle relaxing effect of tubocurarine and may potentiate the action of succinylcholine .
Monitor for skeletal muscle effect .
Lithium Furosemide reduces lithium ' s renal clearance and add a high - risk of lithium toxicity .
Avoid concomitant use with lithium .
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers May lead to severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function , including renal failure .
Monitor for changes in blood pressure and renal function and interrupt or reduce the dosage of furosemide , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , or angiotensin receptor blockers if needed .
Antihypertensive drugs Furosemide may add to or potentiate the therapeutic effect of other antihypertensive drugs .
Monitor for changes in blood pressure and adjust the dose of other antihypertensive drugs if needed .
Adrenergic blocking drugs or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs Potentiation occurs .
Monitor for changes in blood pressure and adjust the dose of adrenergic blocking drugs if needed .
Norepinephrine Furosemide may decrease arterial responsiveness ( vasoconstricting effect ) to norepinephrine .
Monitor blood pressure ( or mean arterial pressure ) .
Chloral hydrate In isolated cases , intravenous administration of furosemide within 24 hours of taking chloral hydrate may lead to flushing , sweating attacks , restlessness , nausea , increase in blood pressure , and tachycardia .
Concomitant use with chloral hydrate is not recommended .
Methotrexate and other drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion Furosemide may decrease renal elimination of other drugs that undergo tubular secretion .
High - dose treatment of furosemide may result in elevated serum levels of these drugs and may potentiate their toxicity .
Monitor serum levels of drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion and adjust the dose if needed .
Cephalosporin Furosemide can increase the risk of cephalosporin - induced nephrotoxicity even in the setting of minor or transient renal impairment .
Monitor for changes in renal function .
Cyclosporine Increased risk of gouty arthritis secondary to furosemide - induced hyperuricemia and cyclosporine impairment of renal urate excretion .
Monitor serum urate levels .
Thyroid hormones High - doses ( > 80 mg ) of furosemide may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins and result in transient increase in free thyroid hormones , followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone levels .
Monitor the total thyroid hormone levels .
7 . 2 Effects of Other Drugs on Furosemide Drug / Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Phenytoin Interferes directly with renal action of furosemide .
Monitor diuretic effects of furosemide and adjust the dose of furosemide if needed .
Methotrexate and other drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion May reduce the effect of furosemide .
High - dose treatment of methotrexate and these other drugs may result in elevated serum levels of furosemide and may potentiate the toxicity of furosemide .
Monitor for enhanced toxicity of furosemide .
Indomethacin Coadministration of indomethacin may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of furosemide in some patients by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis .
Indomethacin may also affect plasma renin levels , aldosterone excretion , and renin profile evaluation .
Patients receiving both indomethacin and furosemide should be observed closely to determine if the desired diuretic and / or antihypertensive effect of furosemide is achieved .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published observational studies , case reports , and postmarketing reports , from decades of use , have not demonstrated a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with furosemide use during pregnancy .
Untreated congestive heart failure and cirrhosis of the liver can lead to adverse outcomes for the mother and the fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , furosemide has been shown to cause unexplained maternal deaths and abortions in rabbits when administered orally during organogenesis at 4 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on body surface area ( BSA ) and oral bioavailability corrections , presumably secondary to volume depletion ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Pregnant women with congestive heart failure are at increased risk for pre - term birth .
Stroke volume and heart rate increase during pregnancy , increasing cardiac output , especially during the first trimester .
Clinical classification of heart disease may worsen with pregnancy and lead to maternal death and / or stillbirth .
Closely monitor pregnant patients for destabilization of their heart failure .
Pregnant women with symptomatic cirrhosis generally have poor outcomes including hepatic failure , variceal hemorrhage , pre - term delivery , fetal growth restriction and maternal death .
Outcomes are worse with coexisting esophageal varices .
Pregnant women with cirrhosis of the liver should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Data Animal Data The effects of furosemide on embryonic and fetal development and on pregnant dams were studied in mice , rats and rabbits .
Furosemide caused unexplained maternal deaths and abortions in the rabbit at the lowest dose of 25 mg / kg ( approximately 4 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections ) .
In another study , a dose of 50 mg / kg ( approximately 7 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections ) also caused maternal deaths and abortions when administered to rabbits between Days 12 and 17 of gestation .
In a third study , none of the pregnant rabbits survived an oral dose of 100 mg / kg .
Data from the above studies indicate fetal lethality that can precede maternal deaths .
The results of the mouse study and one of the three rabbit studies also showed an increased incidence and severity of hydronephrosis ( distention of the renal pelvis and , in some cases , of the ureters ) in fetuses of treated dams as compared with the incidence of fetuses from the control group .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The presence of furosemide has been reported in human milk .
There are no data on the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Doses of furosemide associated with clinically significant diuresis may impair milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for furosemide and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from furosemide or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Published reports indicate that premature infants with post conceptual age ( gestational plus postnatal ) less than 31 weeks receiving doses exceeding 1 mg / kg / 24 hours may develop plasma levels which could be associated with potential toxic effects including ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Furosamide in the first year of life , especially in patients born pre - term , may precipitate nephrocalcinosis / nephrolithiasis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of furosemide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The principal signs and symptoms of overdose with furosemide are dehydration , blood volume reduction , hypotension , electrolyte imbalance , hypokalemia and hypochloremic alkalosis , and are extensions of its diuretic action .
The concentration of furosemide in biological fluids associated with toxicity or death is not known .
Treatment of overdosage is supportive and consists of replacement of excessive fluid and electrolyte losses .
Serum electrolytes , carbon dioxide level , and blood pressure should be determined frequently .
Adequate drainage must be assured in patients with urinary bladder outlet obstruction ( such as prostatic hypertrophy ) .
Hemodialysis does not accelerate furosemide elimination .
11 DESCRIPTION Furosemide Injection contains furosemide as the active pharmaceutical ingredient .
Furosemide is a loop diuretic which is an anthranilic acid derivative .
Furosemide chemical name is 4 - chloro - N - furfuryl - 5 - sulfamoylanthranilic acid .
Furosemide is a white to slightly - yellow crystalline powder .
It is practically insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , freely soluble in dilute alkali solutions and insoluble in dilute acids .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Furosemide Injection 10 mg / mL is a sterile , non - pyrogenic solution , available in single - dose vials for intravenous and intramuscular injection .
Each mL of Furosemide Injection contains : 10 mg of Furosemide , 7 . 5 mg of Sodium Chloride for isotonicity , 1 . 34 mg of Sodium Hydroxide , Hydrochloric Acid and Sodium Hydroxide as pH adjusters , in Water for Injection .
Furosemide Injection solution pH is between 8 . 0 and 9 . 3 .
It contains no preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Furosemide inhibits primarily the reabsorption of sodium and chloride not only in the proximal and distal tubules but also in the loop of Henle .
The high degree of efficacy is largely due to this unique site of action .
The action on the distal tubule is independent of any inhibitory effect on carbonic anhydrase and aldosterone .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The onset of diuresis following intravenous administration is within 5 minutes and somewhat later after intramuscular administration .
The peak effect occurs within the first half hour .
The duration of diuretic effect is approximately 2 hours .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Furosemide is extensively bound to plasma proteins , mainly to albumin .
Plasma concentrations ranging from 1 to 400 mcg / mL are 91 to 99 % bound in healthy individuals .
The unbound fraction averages 2 . 3 to 4 . 1 % at therapeutic concentrations .
Elimination The terminal half - life of furosemide is approximately 2 hours .
Metabolism Recent evidence suggests that furosemide glucuronide is the only or at least the major biotransformation product of furosemide in man .
Excretion Significantly more furosemide is excreted in urine following the intravenous injection than after the tablet or oral solution .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Furosemide binding to albumin may be reduced in elderly patients .
Furosemide is predominantly excreted unchanged in the urine .
The renal clearance of furosemide after intravenous administration in older healthy male subjects ( 60 to 70 years of age ) is statistically significantly smaller than in younger healthy male subjects ( 20 to 35 years of age ) .
The initial diuretic effect of furosemide in older subjects is decreased relative to younger subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Patients with Renal Impairment One study in six subjects demonstrated that the combination of furosemide and acetylsalicylic acid temporarily reduced creatinine clearance in patients with chronic renal insufficiency .
There are case reports of patients who developed increased BUN , serum creatinine and serum potassium levels , and weight gain when furosemide was used in conjunction with NSAIDs .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Furosemide was tested for carcinogenicity by oral administration in one strain of mice and one strain of rats .
A small but significantly increased incidence of mammary gland carcinomas occurred in female mice at a dose approximately 8 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections .
There were marginal increases in uncommon tumors in male rats at a dose of 15 mg / kg but not at 30 mg / kg .
Mutagenesis Furosemide was devoid of mutagenic activity in various strains of Salmonella typhimurium when tested in the presence or absence of an in vitro metabolic activation system , and questionably positive for gene mutation in mouse lymphoma cells in the presence of rat liver S9 at the highest dose tested .
Furosemide did not induce sister chromatid exchange in human cells in vitro , but other studies on chromosomal aberrations in human cells in vitro gave conflicting results .
In Chinese hamster cells it induced chromosomal damage but was questionably positive for sister chromatid exchange .
Studies on the induction by furosemide of chromosomal aberrations in mice were inconclusive .
The urine of rats treated with this drug did not induce gene conversion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .
Impairment of Fertility Furosemide produced no impairment of fertility in male or female rats , at 100 mg / kg / day ( the maximum effective diuretic dose in the rat ) , approximately 7 times a human i . v . dose of 80 mg based on BSA and oral bioavailability corrections .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Furosemide Injection is a sterile , colorless solution for injection , available as a single - dose vial that contains 10 mg / mL of furosemide , and is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Presentations Concentration NDC 0409 - 6102 - 02 Tray of 25 amber glass single - dose vials 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6102 - 04 Tray of 25 amber glass single - dose vials 40 mg / 4 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6102 - 10 Tray of 25 amber glass single - dose vials 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) Discard unused portion .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains particulate .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Fluid , Electrolyte , and Metabolic Abnormalities Advise patients that they may experience symptoms from excessive fluid and / or electrolyte losses .
The postural hypotension that sometimes occurs can usually be managed by getting up slowly .
Potassium supplements and / or dietary measures may be needed to control or avoid hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients that furosemide may increase blood glucose levels and thereby affect urine glucose tests [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Photosensitivity The skin of some patients may be more sensitive to the effects of sunlight while taking furosemide [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Advise hypertensive patients to avoid medications that may increase blood pressure , including over - the - counter products for appetite suppression and cold symptoms [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
For Medical Information about Furosemide Injection , please visit www . pfizermedinfo . com or call 1 ‑ 800 ‑ 438 ‑ 1985 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1025 - 5 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Label 2 mL NDC 0409 - 6102 - 19 Rx only Furosemide Inj . , USP 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) Hospira Distributed by Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Tray 2 mL Single - use vials Rx only NDC 0409 - 6102 - 02 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6102 - 19 Furosemide Injection , USP 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For INTRAVENOUS or INTRAMUSCULAR use .
Protect from light .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mL Vial Label 4 mL Single - use vial Rx only Furosemide Injection , USP 40 mg / 4 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS OR INTRAMUSCULAR USE .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mL Vial Tray 4 mL Single - use vials NDC 0409 - 6102 - 04 Rx only Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6102 - 18 Furosemide Injection , USP 40 mg / 4 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS or INTRAMUSCULAR USE .
Protect from light .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label 10 mL Single - use vial Furosemide Injection , USP 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For INTRAVENOUS or INTRAMUSCULAR use .
Distributed by Hospira Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Tray 10 mL Single - use vials NDC 0409 - 6102 - 10 Rx only Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6102 - 20 Furosemide Injection , USP 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For INTRAVENOUS or INTRAMUSCULAR use .
Protect from light .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
