1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAMCEVI is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced prostate cancer .
CAMCEVI is a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced prostate cancer .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on the preparation and administration of the injectable emulsion in a pre - filled syringe .
( 2 ) • Recommended Dosage : 42 mg subcutaneously every 6 months .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage CAMCEVI must be administered by a healthcare provider .
The recommended dose of CAMCEVI is 42 mg administered subcutaneously once every 6 months .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Syringe Assembly • Remove CAMCEVI kit from refrigerator .
Open carton and remove blister .
• Allow prefilled syringe to sit at room temperature for 30 minutes prior to subcutaneous injection .
• Examine all contents of the package .
Do not use if any component is damaged .
• Check the expiration date on the syringe .
Do not use if the expiration date has passed .
• The use of gloves is recommended during syringe assembly and administration .
• On a clean , dry surface , remove pre - filled syringe ( A ) and needle cartridge ( B ) from the blister carton .
Visually inspect the contents prior to use .
• Remove the gray cap from the syringe ( A ) .
• Twist the clear cap off the bottom of the needle cartridge ( B ) .
• Attach the needle ( B ) to the end of the syringe ( A ) by pushing and turning the needle until firmly connected to the syringe .
Do not over twist the needle and strip the threading .
Remove contents Syringe Assembly Assembled Pre - Filled Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Administration Procedure • Choose an injection site on the upper - or mid - abdominal area with sufficient soft or loose subcutaneous tissue that has not recently been used .
Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab .
Do NOT inject in areas with brawny or fibrous subcutaneous tissue or locations that can be rubbed or compressed ( i . e . , with a belt or clothing waistband ) .
In addition , avoid applying heat directly to the site of CAMCEVI injection .
• Pull the blue cover off the needle ( B ) .
Use standard sharps safety techniques to avoid needle sticks .
• Use standard aseptic technique when performing the injection .
Grab and bunch the skin around the injection site with one hand .
Insert the needle at a 90 ° angle to the skin surface , and then release the bunched skin .
• Inject the full contents of the syringe with a slow and steady push on the plunger , and then withdraw the needle at the same 90 ° angle used for insertion .
Prepare the Injection Site Administer Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Needle Protection • Do not remove the needle from the syringe .
Use the enclosed Point - Lok ® device to prevent needle sticks .
• Retrieve the Point - Lok ® needle protection device from the Camcevi kit and place it on a secured , flat surface with its largest surface base touching the surface as shown in the diagram below .
• Immediately after use of the needle , gently insert the exposed needle into the Point - Lok ® device opening at the top of the Point - Lok ® device .
( see Figure 1 below ) • Push the needle into the top opening until it is fully inserted into the Point - Lok ® device .
This action will seal the needle tip and lock the needle firmly into the Point - Lok ® device .
( see Figure 2 below ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
After use , place the used syringe with needle protected in a suitable sharps container .
Dispose of contaminated product in a safe manner according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , USA and Federal / State / Local regulations ( EPA , OSHA ) and health care facility guidelines or local equivalent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injectable emulsion : 42 mg leuprolide ( equivalent to approximately 48 mg leuprolide mesylate ) as a sterile , off - white to pale yellow , viscous , and opalescent emulsion in a single - dose , pre - filled syringe for subcutaneous injection .
• Injectable emulsion : 42 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CAMCEVI is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs , or any of the excipients in CAMCEVI .
Anaphylactic reactions to GnRH agonist analogs have been reported in the medical literature .
• Hypersensitivity to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs , or any of the components of CAMCEVI .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tumor Flare : Transient worsening of bone pain , uretral obstruction , spinal cord compression , or the occurrence of additional signs and symptoms of prostate cancer may develop during the first few weeks of treatment .
Monitor patients closely and manage symptoms .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia and Diabetes : Hyperglycemia and an increased risk of developing diabetes have been reported in men receiving GnRH agonists .
Monitor blood glucose level and manage according to current clinical practice .
( 5 . 2 ) • Cardiovascular Diseases : Increased risk of myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death , and stroke has been reported in men receiving GnRH agonists .
Monitor for cardiovascular disease and manage according to current clinical practice .
( 5 . 3 ) • QT / QTc Prolongation : Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval .
Consider periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and electrolytes .
( 5 . 4 ) • Convulsions : Manage convulsions according to the current clinical practice .
( 5 . 5 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : CAMCEVI may cause fetal harm .
( 5 . 7 , 8 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Tumor Flare CAMCEVI , like other GnRH agonists , causes a transient increase in serum levels of testosterone during the first week of treatment , declining thereafter to baseline levels or below by the end of the second week of treatment .
Transient worsening of symptoms , or the occurrence of additional signs and symptoms of prostate cancer , may develop during the first few weeks of CAMCEVI treatment .
Patients treated with CAMCEVI may experience a temporary increase in bone pain , which can be managed symptomatically .
As with other GnRH agonists , cases of ureteral obstruction and spinal cord compression have been observed , which may contribute to paralysis with or without fatal complications .
Patients with metastatic vertebral lesions and / or with urinary tract obstruction should be closely observed during the first few weeks of therapy .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Hyperglycemia and an increased risk of developing diabetes have been reported in men receiving GnRH agonists .
Hyperglycemia may represent the development of diabetes mellitus or worsening of glycemic control in patients with diabetes .
Monitor blood glucose and / or glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) periodically in patients receiving a GnRH agonist and manage with current practice for treatment of hyperglycemia or diabetes .
5 . 3 Cardiovascular Diseases Increased risk of developing myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death , and stroke has been reported in association with use of GnRH agonists in men .
The risk appears low based on the reported odds ratios , and should be evaluated carefully along with cardiovascular risk factors when determining a treatment for patients with prostate cancer .
Patients receiving a GnRH agonist should be monitored for symptoms and signs suggestive of development of cardiovascular disease and be managed according to current clinical practice .
5 . 4 QT / QTc Prolongation Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT / QTc interval .
Providers should consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients with congenital long QT syndrome , congestive heart failure , frequent electrolyte abnormalities , and in patients taking drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected .
Consider periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and electrolytes .
5 . 5 Convulsions Convulsions have been reported in patients receiving GnRH agonists , like CAMCEVI [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Manage patients receiving a GnRH agonist who experience convulsions according to current clinical practice .
5 . 6 Laboratory Tests Monitor serum levels of testosterone following injection of CAMCEVI .
In the majority of patients treated with CAMCEVI , testosterone levels increased above baseline during the first week , and then declined thereafter to castration levels ( < 50 ng / dL ) within 4 weeks [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 7 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings in animal studies and mechanism of action , CAMCEVI can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicology studies , administration of a monthly formulation of leuprolide on day 6 of pregnancy ( sustained exposure was expected throughout the period of organogenesis ) caused adverse embryo - fetal toxicity in animals at doses less than the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Tumor Flare [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hyperglycemia and Diabetes [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cardiovascular Diseases [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • QT / QTc Prolongation [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Convulsions [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common ( > 10 % ) adverse reactions were hot flush , hypertension , injection site reactions , upper respiratory tract infections , musculoskeletal pain , fatigue , and pain in extremity .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Foresee Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 866 - 941 - 7875 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In an open - label , non - comparative clinical trial ( FP01C - 13 - 001 ) , patients with advanced prostate cancer received CAMCEVI administered subcutaneously at a dose of 42 mg on Day 0 and Day 168 .
Of 137 patients enrolled , 93 % received both doses of CAMCEVI .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 15 % of patients who received CAMCEVI , including 1 % of patients who experienced subdural hematoma .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 2 % of patients , including cerebrovascular accident ( 0 . 7 % ) and pulmonary embolism ( 0 . 7 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) occurring during a median follow - up duration of 336 days were hot flush , hypertension , injection site reactions , upper respiratory tract infections , musculoskeletal pain , fatigue , and pain in extremity .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions in FP01C - 13 - 001 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % of Patients - FP01C - 13 - 001 Adverse Reaction N = 137 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 - 4 ( % ) Vascular disorders Hot flush [ 1 ] 50 0 Hypertension [ 2 ] 15 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Injection site reactions [ 3 ] 11 0 Fatigue [ 4 ] 10 0 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection [ 5 ] 11 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Musculoskeletal pain [ 6 ] 11 0 Pain in extremity 10 0 Arthralgia 7 0 Renal and urinary disorders Micturition urgency [ 7 ] 6 0 Nocturia 6 0 Nervous system disorders Dizziness [ 8 ] 5 0 . 7 [ 1 ] includes hot flush and flushing [ 2 ] includes hypertension , essential hypertension , and blood pressure increased [ 3 ] includes injection site pain , injection site erythema , injection site hemorrhage , injection site nodule , injection site paraesthesia , injection site pruritus , and injection site warmth [ 4 ] includes fatigue and asthenia [ 5 ] includes upper respiratory tract infection , sinusitis , and nasopharyngitis [ 6 ] includes musculoskeletal pain , back pain , and bone pain [ 7 ] includes micturition urgency and dysuria [ 8 ] includes dizziness , dizziness postural , vertigo , and vertigo positional .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of leuprolide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
During postmarketing surveillance , which includes other dosage forms and other patient populations , the following adverse reactions were reported .
Allergic Conditions : anaphylactoid or asthmatic process , rash , urticaria , and photosensitivity reactions Cardiovascular System : hypotension , myocardial infarction , pulmonary embolism Central / Peripheral Nervous System : convulsion , peripheral neuropathy , spinal fracture / paralysis Endocrine System : pituitary apoplexy , diabetes Hepato - biliary disorder : drug - induced liver injury Hematologic : white blood cells Psychiatric : mood swings , including depression , suicidal ideation and attempt Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorder : interstitial lung disease Musculoskeletal System : decreased bone density , tenosynovitis - like symptoms , fibromyalgia Skin and Subcutaneous : injection site reactions Urogenital System : prostate pain 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Females and males of reproductive potential : CAMCEVI may impair fertility .
( 8 . 3 ) • Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animal studies and mechanism of action , CAMCEVI can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicology studies , administration of a monthly formulation of leuprolide on day 6 of pregnancy ( sustained exposure was expected throughout the period of organogenesis ) caused adverse embryo - fetal toxicity in animals at doses less than the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose ( see data ) .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Data Animal Data Major fetal malformations were observed in developmental and reproductive toxicology studies in rabbits after a single administration of a monthly formulation of leuprolide administered on day 6 of pregnancy at test dosages of 0 . 00024 , 0 . 0024 , and 0 . 024 mg / kg ( approximately 1 / 1500 to 1 / 15 the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose in animals and humans ) .
Since a depot formulation was utilized in the study , a sustained exposure to leuprolide was expected throughout the period of organogenesis and to the end of gestation .
Similar studies in rats did not demonstrate an increase in fetal malformations , however , there was increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights with the two higher doses of the monthly formulation of leuprolide in rabbits and with the highest dose in rats .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The safety and efficacy of CAMCEVI have not been established in females .
There is no information regarding the presence of leuprolide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , a decision should be made to discontinue breastfeeding or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Males Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action , CAMCEVI may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of CAMCEVI in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 137 patients who received CAMCEVI in the FP01C - 13 - 001 study , 74 % were 65 years of age or older , while 37 % were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION CAMCEVI is a sterile formulation of leuprolide mesylate for subcutaneous injection .
CAMCEVI is designed to deliver approximately 42 mg of leuprolide over 6 months .
Leuprolide mesylate is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally occurring GnRH and is a GnRH agonist .
The analog possesses greater potency than the natural hormone .
The chemical name is 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - leucyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - N - ethyl - L - prolinamide mesylate ( salt ) with the following structural formula .
The pH of 50 mg / mL solution of leuprolide mesylate in water is approximately 5 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CAMCEVI is supplied as a kit with a pre - filled , single - dose , sterile syringe for subcutaneous injection .
Each pre - filled syringe delivers 42 mg leuprolide ( equivalent to approximately 48 mg leuprolide mesylate ) , poly ( D , L - lactide ) ( 184 mg ) polymer and N - methyl - 2 - pyrrolidone ( 136 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Leuprolide , a GnRH agonist , acts as an inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion .
Animal and human studies indicate that following an initial stimulation of gonadotropins , chronic administration of leuprolide results in suppression of ovarian and testicular steroidogenesis .
This effect is reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
In humans , subcutaneous administration of single daily doses of leuprolide result in an initial increase in circulating levels of LH and FSH , leading to a transient increase in levels of the gonadal steroids ( testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in males ) .
However , continuous daily administration of leuprolide results in decreased levels of LH and FSH .
In males , testosterone is reduced to below castration levels .
These decreases generally occur within 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of treatment , and castration levels of testosterone in prostatic cancer patients have been demonstrated for periods of up to 5 years .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Mean serum testosterone concentrations transiently increased , then fell to below castrate threshold levels ( ≤ 50 ng / dL ) within 3 weeks following administration of the dose of leuprolide , and generally remained below castrate thresholds levels throughout treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Leuprolide concentration is variable , exhibiting an initial rapid increase followed by a rapid decline over the first 3 days before reaching steady concentrations for the duration of the dosing interval .
The mean serum leuprolide Cmax was 94 . 5 and 99 ng / mL following the first and second doses of CAMCEVI , respectively .
The mean serum concentration was maintained at 0 . 497 – 2 . 57 and 0 . 507 – 2 . 39 ng / ml after Day 3 post the first and second doses , respectively .
The mean AUC0 - 6 mon was 224 and 268 day . ng / mL following the first and second doses of CAMCEVI , respectively .
Absorption The median Tmax of leuprolide was 3 . 2 and 2 . 1 hours following the first and second doses of CAMCEVI , respectively .
Distribution The mean steady ‑ state volume of distribution of leuprolide was 27 L following an intravenous bolus in healthy male volunteers .
Protein binding of leuprolide ranged from 43 % to 49 % in vitro .
Elimination The mean systemic clearance was 7 . 6 L / h and terminal elimination half ‑ life of approximately 3 hours following an intravenous bolus of leuprolide in healthy male volunteers .
Metabolism Administration of radiolabeled leuprolide was metabolized to smaller inactive peptides which may then be further catabolized .
Excretion Excretion of leuprolide has not been evaluated with CAMCEVI .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the systemic exposure of leuprolide were observed based on age ( 51 to 88 years ) , race / ethnicity ( White , Black , Asian ) , or body weight ( 54 to 134 kg ) .
The effect of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of leuprolide has not been evaluated .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two ‑ year carcinogenicity studies were conducted with leuprolide in rats and mice .
In rats , a dose - related increase of benign pituitary hyperplasia and benign pituitary adenomas was noted at 24 months when the drug was administered subcutaneously at high daily doses ( 0 . 6 to 4 mg / kg ) .
There was a significant but not dose ‑ related increase of pancreatic islet ‑ cell adenomas in females and of testicular interstitial cell adenomas in males ( highest incidence in the low dose group ) .
In mice , no pituitary abnormalities were observed at a dose as high as 60 mg / kg for 2 years .
Patients have been treated with leuprolide for up to 3 years with doses as high as 10 mg / day and for 2 years with doses as high as 20 mg / day without demonstrable pituitary abnormalities .
Mutagenicity studies have been performed with leuprolide using bacterial and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of mutagenic potential .
Leuprolide may reduce male and female fertility .
Administration of leuprolide to male and female rats at doses of 0 . 024 , 0 . 24 , and 2 . 4 mg / kg as monthly depot formulation for up to 3 months ( approximately as low as 1 / 30 of the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose in animals and humans ) caused atrophy of the reproductive organs , and suppression of reproductive function .
These changes were reversible upon cessation of treatment .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of CAMCEVI was evaluated in an open label , single arm , multinational study FP01C - 13 - 001 ( NCT02234115 ) in patients with advanced prostate carcinoma who have a baseline morning serum testosterone level > 150 ng / dL and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status ≤ 2 .
CAMCEVI was administered subcutaneously at a dose of 42 mg initially on Day 0 and on Week 24 .
The population ( n = 137 ) had a median age of 71 years ( range 51 to 88 ) and was 90 % White , 6 % Black , and 4 % Asian .
Disease stage was distributed as follows : 23 % metastatic ( M1 ) , 27 % locally advanced ( T3 / 4 NX M0 or any T N1 M0 ) , 26 % localized ( T1 or T2 N0 M0 ) , and 24 % not classifiable .
The median testosterone concentration at baseline was 440 ng / dL .
The major efficacy outcome measure was medical castration rate , defined as achieving and maintaining serum testosterone suppression to ≤ 50 ng / dL by Week 4 through Week 48 of treatment .
Following the first injection of CAMCEVI , serum testosterone levels were suppressed to ≤ 50 ng / dL by Week 4 ( + / - 7 days ) in 98 . 5 % of the patients ; and from Week 4 through Week 48 in 97 . 0 % of patients ( 95 % CI : 92 . 2 - 98 . 9 ) estimated using the Kaplan - Meier method .
The time course of percent change from baseline in testosterone suppression are shown in Figure 1 .
The percentage of patients with testosterone suppression to ≤ 20 ng / dL was 69 . 3 % on Day 28 .
Figure 1 CAMCEVI Mean ( 95 % CI ) Percentage Change from Baseline in Serum Testosterone Concentration Over Time ( N = 137 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] In the clinical trial , PSA levels were monitored and were lowered on average by 51 % after 4 weeks after administration of CAMCEVI , 83 % after 3 months and remained suppressed throughout the 48 weeks of treatment .
These PSA results should be interpreted with caution because of the heterogeneity of the patient population studied .
No evidence has shown that the rapidity of PSA decline correlates with clinical benefit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CAMCEVI is a sterile , off - white to pale yellow , viscous and opalescent injectable emulsion supplied in a kit as a single - dose , pre - filled syringe .
CAMCEVI is available as follows : Kit Contents NDC Injectable emulsion in a pre - filled syringe containing 42 mg leuprolide for subcutaneous injection , a sterile 18 gauge needle , a Point - Lok ® needle protection device , and Instructions for Use .
72851 - 042 - 01 Store CAMCEVI at 2 ° C – 8 ° C ( 36 ° F – 46 ° F ) .
Protect CAMCEVI from light by storing in the original package until time of use .
Do not freeze or shake .
The rubber used in syringe tip cap and plunger stopper is not made of natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity • Inform patients that if they have experienced hypersensitivity with other GnRH agonist drugs like CAMCEVI , CAMCEVI is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Tumor Flare • Inform patients that CAMCEVI can cause tumor flare during the first weeks of treatment .
Inform patients that the increase in testosterone can cause an increase in urinary symptoms or pain .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if uretral obstruction , spinal cord compression , paralysis , or new or worsened symptoms occur after beginning CAMCEVI treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia and Diabetes • Advise patients that there is an increased risk of hyperglycemia and diabetes with CAMCEVI therapy .
Inform patients that periodic monitoring for hyperglycemia and diabetes is required when being treated with CAMCEVI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cardiovascular Disease • Inform patients that there is an increased risk of myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death , and stroke with CAMCEVI treatment .
Advise patients to immediately report signs and symptoms associated with these events to their healthcare provider for evaluation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
QT / QTc Prolongation • Inform patients that CAMCEVI can cause QT / QTc prolongation .
Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider in the event of syncope , presyncopal symptoms , or cardiac palpitations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• · Convulsions • Inform patients that there is an increased risk of convulsions with CAMCEVI treatment .
Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider if they experience convulsions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Injection Site Reactions • Inform patients that injection site related adverse reactions may occur such as transient burning / stinging , pain , bruising , and redness .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience rash or severe injection site reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Urogenital Disorders • Advise patients that CAMCEVI may cause impotence .
Infertility • Inform patients that CAMCEVI may cause infertility [ seeUse In Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Foresee Pharmaceuticals Co . , Ltd . 9 F - 2 , No . 19 - 3 , Sanchong Rd . , Nangang Dist . , Taipei City 115 , Taiwan By : Fareva Pau 1 Avenue du Bearn , 64320 Idron , France Instructions for Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] You must read these complete instructions before you administer CAMCEVI for the first time .
CAMCEVI must be administered by a healthcare provider .
What is CAMCEVI ?
CAMCEVI is a subcutaneous injection that provides long - acting gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist to patients .
CAMCEVI contains a biodegradable polymer formulation dissolved in a biocompatible solvent that provides sustained release of leuprolide .
CAMCEVI is supplied as a kit containing one sterile , pre - filled syringe for subcutaneous injection , one sterile 18 - gauge needle , one Point - Lok ® needle protection device , and Instructions for Use .
Dosage The recommended dosing is 1 subcutaneous injection ( 42 mg leuprolide ) every 6 months .
Before you begin to prepare CAMCEVI Injection Read these critical instructions .
Do not substitute any of the components from the kit for administration .
CAMCEVI is packaged in a blister in the kit .
Check to make sure the kit contains : • One sterile , single - dose prefilled syringe with plunger rod and backstop • One sterile 18 - gauge , 5 / 8 - inch needle • One Point - Lok ® needle protection device • Instructions for Use and Prescribing Information [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bring CAMCEVI to room temperature STEP To bring CAMCEVI to room temperature : 1 Remove CAMCEVI kit from refrigerator .
Open carton and remove blister .
Allow prefilled syringe to sit at room temperature for 30 minutes prior to subcutaneous injection .
Prepare the syringe STEP Follow these steps to prepare CAMCEVI for use : 1 Examine all contents of the package .
Do not use if any component is damaged .
2 Check the expiration date on the syringe .
Do not use if the expiration date has passed .
3 The use of gloves is recommended during syringe assembly and administration .
4 On a clean , dry surface , remove pre - filled syringe ( A ) and needle cartridge ( B ) from the blister carton .
Visually inspect the contents prior to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 Remove the gray cap from the syringe ( A ) .
Twist the clear cap off the bottom of the needle cartridge ( B ) .
6 Attach the needle ( B ) to the end of the syringe ( A ) by pushing and turning the needle until firmly connected to the syringe .
Do not over twist the needle and strip the threading .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Assembled Pre - Filled Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] Select an injection site STEP To select an injection site , use these guidelines : 1 Choose an injection site on the upper - or mid - abdominal area with sufficient soft or loose subcutaneous tissue that has not recently been used .
Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do NOT inject in areas with brawny or fibrous subcutaneous tissue or locations that can be rubbed or compressed ( i . e . , with a belt or clothing waistband ) .
In addition , avoid applying heat directly to the site of Camcevi injection .
Inject CAMCEVI STEP Follow these steps to inject CAMCEVI : 1 Pull the blue cover off the needle ( B ) .
Use standard sharps safety techniques to avoid needle sticks .
2 Use standard aseptic technique when performing the injection .
Grab and bunch the skin around the injection site with one hand .
Insert the needle at a 90 ° angle to the skin surface , and then release the bunched skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 Inject the full contents of the syringe with a slow and steady push on the plunger , and then withdraw the needle at the same 90 ° angle used for insertion .
4 Do not remove the needle from the syringe .
Use the enclosed Point - Lok ® device to prevent needle sticks .
Retrieve the Point - Lok ® needle protection device from the Camcevi kit and place it on a secured , flat surface with its largest surface base touching the surface as shown in the diagram below .
Immediately after use of the needle , gently insert the exposed needle into the Point - Lok ® device opening at the top of the Point - Lok ® device .
( see Figure 1 below ) Push the needle into the top opening until it is fully inserted into the Point - Lok ® device .
This action will seal the needle tip and lock the needle firmly into the Point - Lok ® device .
( see Figure 2 below ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] After use , place the used syringe with needle protected in a suitable sharps container .
Dispose of contaminated product in a safe manner according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , USA and Federal / State / Local regulations ( EPA , OSHA ) and health care facility guidelines or local equivalent .
Manufactured for : Foresee Pharmaceuticals Co . Ltd .
9 F - 2 , No . 19 - 3 , Sanchong Rd . , Nangang Dist . , Taipei City 115 , Taiwan By : Fareva Pau 1 Avenue du Bearn , 64320 Idron , France [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton NDC 72851 - 042 - 01 Rx Only CAMCEVITM ( leuprolide ) injectable emulsion 42 mg single - dose prefilled syringe Front [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Syringe Label NDC 72851 - 042 - 01 Rx Only CAMCEVITM ( leuprolide ) injectable emulsion 42 mg single - dose prefilled syringe For Subcutaneous Injection Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Outer Label NDC 72851 - 042 - 01 Rx Only CAMCEVITM ( leuprolide ) injectable emulsion 42 mg single - dose prefilled syringe This bilster carton contans : • One sterile 42 mg pre - filled syringe • One sterile 18 - gauge needle Single Dose Administration Kit with prefilled syringe For Subcutaneous Injection Only once Every 6 Months [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
