Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 5 % Purpose Pain Relieving Patch Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience pain , swelling or blistering of the skin • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : Clean and dry affected area , pop apart and partially peel back protective ﬁlm and apply exposed patch to site of pain .
Carefully remove remaining ﬁlm while pressing the patch to skin and leave in place for up to 8 hours .
Use on affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a physician • wash hands after use with cool water Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • store in a cool dry place away from direct sunlight Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Boswellia Carterii Resin Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Cellulose Gum , Dihydroxyaluminum Aminoacetate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , Kaolin , Mineral Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Petrolatum , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , PVP , Sodium Polyacrylate , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide , Water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 246 - 3733 Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton CLINICALLY RECOMMENDED * NDC 59316 - 887 - 04 BiOFREEZE ® COOL THE PAIN EXTRA LARGE PATCHES MENTHOL - PAIN RELIEVING PATCH Designed to provide up to 8 hours of long lasting pain relief Proven cold therapy formula for sore muscles , simple backaches , and joint pain Flexible fabric for superior performance and comfort 4 PATCHES | 2 SIZES EXTRA LARGE AND LONG 2 EXTRA LARGE 9 . 84 in x 5 . 5 in ( 25 cm x 14 cm ) each 2 LONG 7 . 87 in x 3 . 94 in ( 20 cm x 10 cm ) each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
