DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient Titanium Dioxide 8 % Zinc Oxide 3 . 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Sunscreen Uses : Helps to prevent and reduce the damaging effects of the sun ' s Ultraviolet light , including wrinkles and reactions associated with sun damage .
Warnings : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of contact , flush eyes thoroughly .
Do not use if sensitive to ingredients .
If irritation occurs , discontinue use .
If irritation persists , see doctor .
Keep this and all mediciations out of reach of children .
Directions : Apply before exposure to sunlight .
Apply uniformly and completely to all exposed skin areas .
Reapply every 2 - 3 hours and after washing , swimming , sweating , or towel drying for maximum protection .
Other Information : May stain some fabrics Inactive Ingredients : Alumina , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Dimethicone Crosspolyner , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Dimethiconol , Lauryl PEG / PPG 18 / 18 Methicone , Methicone , PEG - 10 Dimethicone FACECŌTZ is a sunscreen uniquely formulated to offer sheer , elegant protection with a silky , smooth , matte finish .
FACECŌTZ offers unparalleled aesthetic elegance while providing superb photoprotective performance .
Using our proprietary technology , Fallien has formulated multiple particle sizes of micronized titanium dioxide and zinc oxide into a light , silky texture that dries to a clear , yet matte finish on any complexion .
FACECŌTZ is paraben , oil and fragrance free , and specially formulated without UV absorbing chemicals to offer unsurpassed , irritant free UVA / UVB light protection .
SPF is not Enough UVA radiation is consistently the same all day and all year long .
Everyone requires daily , year round UVA protection .
UVA radiation is reasonsible for deep skin damage that results in most of the changes associated with skin aging , such as wrinkling .
In addition , the effects of UVA damage are cumulative .
Since the SPF number does not define the level of UVA protection , products that utilize both titanium dioxide and zinc oxide , are the best method of assuring full spectrum sun protection , from UVA and UVB radiation .
• Excellent for Sensitive Skin • Free of " Chemical Sunscreen Filters " • Contains no Parabens • Dries Translucent • Full Spectrum Protection Made in U . S . A . Patented Manufactured exclusively for Fallene Ltd . , West Norriton , PA Made in USA PATENTED Principal Display Panel – Carton Label NDC 58892 - 346 - 45 Dermatologist Recommended for Sensitive Skin FACE CŌTZ Contains Only Titanium & ZincTM VERY WATER - RESISTANT SUN PROTECTION UVA - UVB SPF40 1 . 5 FL .
OZ .
/ 44 . 4 ML [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
