[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years and older .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is a lincosamide product indicated for acne vulgaris in patients 12 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is for topical use only , and not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
Apply Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % once daily to affected areas after the skin is washed with mild soap and allowed to fully dry .
Use enough to cover the entire affected area .
If there has been no improvement after 6 to 8 weeks or if the condition becomes worse , treatment should be discontinued .
The contents of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % are flammable ; avoid fire , flame and / or smoking during and immediately following application .
• • For topical use only ; not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • • Apply Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % once daily to affected areas .
( 2 ) • • Flammable ; avoid fire , flame and / or smoking during and immediately following application .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS White to off - white thermolabile foam .
Each gram of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % contains , as dispensed , 12 mg ( 1 . 2 % ) of clindamycin phosphate , equivalent to 10 mg ( 1 % ) of clindamycin .
Foam containing 1 % clindamycin as clindamycin phosphate .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals with a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals with a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis , ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Colitis : Clindamycin can cause severe colitis , which may result in death .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of this product .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin .
If significant diarrhea occurs , Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should be discontinued .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) . ]
Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen severe colitis .
Severe colitis may result in death .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
5 . 2 Irritation Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % can cause irritation .
Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution since a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating , or abrasive agents .
If irritation or dermatitis occurs , clindamycin should be discontinued .
Avoid contact of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % with eyes , mouth , lips , other mucous membranes or areas of broken skin .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( > 1 % ) are headache and application site reactions including burning , pruritus , and dryness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
A total of 439 subjects with mild to moderate acne vulgaris were treated once daily for 12 weeks with clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % .
The incidence of adverse reactions occurring in > 1 % of the subjects in clinical trials comparing clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % and its vehicle is presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects Adverse Reactions Number ( % ) of Subjects Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % N = 439 Vehicle Foam N = 154 Headache 12 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Application site burning 27 ( 6 % ) 14 ( 9 % ) Application site pruritus 5 ( 1 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) Application site dryness 4 ( 1 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) Application site reaction , not otherwise specified 3 ( 1 % ) 4 ( 3 % ) In a contact sensitization study , none of the 203 subjects developed evidence of allergic contact sensitization to clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % : application site pain , application site erythema , diarrhea , urticaria , abdominal pain , hypersensitivity , rash , abdominal discomfort , nausea , seborrhea , application site rash , dizziness , pain of skin , colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) , and hemorrhagic diarrhea .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances , as well as gram - negative folliculitis , have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin .
Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin have been associated with severe colitis , which may end fatally .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Erythromycin Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should not be used in combination with topical or oral erythromycin - containing products due to possible antagonism to its clindamycin component .
In vitro studies have shown antagonism between these two antimicrobials .
The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known .
7 . 2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women treated with clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit clearly outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using subcutaneous and oral doses of clindamycin phosphate , clindamycin hydrochloride and clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride .
These studies revealed no evidence of fetal harm .
The highest dose used in the rat and mouse teratogenicity studies was equivalent to a clindamycin phosphate dose of 432 mg / kg .
For a rat , this dose is 84 fold higher , and for a mouse 42 fold higher , than the anticipated human dose of clindamycin phosphate from clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % based on a mg / m2 comparison .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in human milk following use of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If used during lactation and Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is applied to the chest , care should be taken to avoid accidental ingestion by the infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % in children under the age of 12 have not been studied .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The clinical study with clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine if they respond differently than younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % contains clindamycin ( 1 % ) as clindamycin phosphate .
Clindamycin phosphate is a water - soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic , lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
The structural formula for clindamycin phosphate is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % contains clindamycin ( 1 % ) as clindamycin phosphate , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , ethanol ( 58 % ) , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mechanism of action in acne vulgaris is unknown .
[ See Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In an open label , parallel group study in 24 subjects with acne vulgaris , 12 subjects ( 3 male and 9 female ) applied 4 grams of clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % once - daily for five days , and 12 subjects ( 7 male and 5 female ) applied 4 grams of a clindamycin gel , 1 % , once daily for five days .
On Day 5 , the mean Cmax and AUC ( 0 - 12 ) were 23 % and 9 % lower , respectively , for clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % than for the clindamycin gel , 1 % .
Following multiple applications of clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % , less than 0 . 024 % of the total dose was excreted unchanged in the urine over 12 hours on Day 5 .
12 . 4 Microbiology No microbiology studies were conducted in the clinical trials with this product .
Clindamycin binds to the 50 S ribosomal subunits of susceptible bacteria and prevents elongation of peptide chains by interfering with peptidyl transfer , thereby suppressing protein synthesis .
Clindamycin has been shown to have in vitro activity against Propionibacterium acnes ( P . acnes ) , an organism that has been associated with acne vulgaris ; however , the clinical significance of this activity against P . acnes was not examined in clinical studies with Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
P . acnes resistance to clindamycin has been documented .
Inducible Clindamycin Resistance The treatment of acne with antimicrobials is associated with the development of antimicrobial resistance in P . acnes as well as other bacteria ( e . g . Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes ) .
The use of clindamycin may result in developing inducible resistance in these organisms .
This resistance is not detected by routine susceptibility testing .
Cross Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is often associated with resistance to erythromycin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility The carcinogenicity of a 1 . 2 % clindamycin phosphate gel similar to Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % was evaluated by daily application to mice for two years .
The daily doses used in this study were approximately 3 and 15 times higher than the human dose of clindamycin phosphate from 5 milliliters of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % , assuming complete absorption and based on a body surface area comparison .
No significant increase in tumors was noted in the treated animals .
A 1 . 2 % clindamycin phosphate gel similar to Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % caused a statistically significant shortening of the median time to tumor onset in a study in hairless mice in which tumors were induced by exposure to simulated sunlight .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Reproduction studies in rats using oral doses of clindamycin hydrochloride and clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In one multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trial , subjects with mild to moderate acne vulgaris used clindamycin phosphate foam , 1 % or the vehicle Foam once daily for twelve weeks .
Treatment response , defined as the proportion of subjects clear or almost clear , based on the Investigator Static Global Assessment ( ISGA ) , and the mean percent reductions in lesion counts at the end of treatment in this study are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Efficacy Results at Week 12 Efficacy Parameters Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % N = 386 Vehicle Foam N = 127 Treatment response ( ISGA ) 31 % 18 % * Percent reduction in lesion counts Inflammatory Lesions 49 % 35 % * Noninflammatory Lesions 38 % 27 % * Total Lesions 43 % 31 % * * P < 0 . 05 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram , is white to off - white in color and thermolabile .
It is available in the following sizes : • 100 gram aerosol can - NDC 63629 - 8629 - 1 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Flammable .
Avoid fire , flame or smoking during and immediately following application .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperature above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
17 . 1 Instructions for Use • • Patients should be advised to wash their skin with mild soap and allow it to dry before applying Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
• • Patients should use enough Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % to cover the face and to apply once daily .
• • Patients should dispense Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % directly into the cap or onto a cool surface .
Patients should wash their hands after applying Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
17 . 2 Skin Irritation Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , itching , burning , or stinging .
Patients should be advised to discontinue use if excessive irritancy or dermatitis occur .
17 . 3 Colitis In the event a patient treated with Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % experiences severe diarrhea or gastrointestinal discomfort , Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % should be discontinued and a physician should be contacted .
Made in Israel Manufactured by Perrigo Yeruham , Israel Distributed by Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 www . perrigo . com Rev 08 - 19 4T500 RC J4 Pharmacist - Detach here and Give Instructions to Patient Patient Information Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % Important : For skin use only .
Do not use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
Read the Patient Information that comes with Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat acne in people 12 years and older .
It is not known if Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is safe and effective in children under 12 years of age .
Who should not use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
Do not use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % if you : • • have Crohn ’ s disease • • have ulcerative colitis • • have had inflammation of the colon ( colitis ) or severe diarrhea with past antibiotic use Tell your doctor if you are not sure if you have any of the conditions listed above .
What should I tell my doctor before using Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
Before you use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % , tell your doctor if you : • • have a history of eczema • • are planning to have surgery .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % may affect how certain medicines work that may be given during surgery .
• • have any other medical conditions • • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % may harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % passes through your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % or breastfeed .
If you use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % while breastfeeding and Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is applied on the chest , take care to avoid getting Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % into your baby ’ s mouth .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take erythromycin or use products on your skin that contain erythromycin .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
• • Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is for use on the skin only .
Do not get Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
• • Use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
See the “ Instructions for Applying Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ” below .
• • Apply Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % 1 time a day .
• • Wash your skin with mild soap and water and dry before applying Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
• • Do not dispense Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % directly onto your hands or face , because the foam will begin to melt on contact with warm skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Wash your hands after applying Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
Throw away any of the unused medicine that you dispensed out of the can .
What should I avoid while using Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
• • Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % is flammable .
Avoid fire , flames , or smoking during and right after you apply Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % to your skin .
• • Avoid getting Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % in or near your eyes , mouth , lips , or broken skin .
If you get Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % in your eyes , mouth , on lips or broken skin , rinse well with water .
What are possible side effects with Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % can cause serious side effects including : • • Inflammation of the colon ( colitis ) .
Clindamycin can cause severe colitis that may lead to death .
Stop using Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % and call your doctor right away if you have severe watery diarrhea , or bloody diarrhea .
The most common side effects of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % include : • • Skin irritation .
Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % may cause skin irritation such as burning , itching , or dryness .
Stop using Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % and talk with your doctor if you develop excessive skin irritation .
• • Headache .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may report side effects to Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 .
How should I store Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
• • Store Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % away from heat .
Never throw the can into a fire , even if the can is empty .
• • Do not store Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
• • Do not break through ( puncture ) the Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % can .
Keep Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information .
Do not use Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Clindamycin Phosphate Foam , 1 % ?
Active ingredient : clindamycin phosphate Inactive ingredients : cetyl alcohol , ethanol ( 58 % ) , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol .
The can is pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Made in Israel Manufactured by Perrigo Yeruham , Israel Distributed by Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 www . perrigo . com Rev 08 - 19 4T500 RC J4 Clindamycin Phosphate 1 % Foam , # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
