DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine Citrate Injection is a sterile aqueous solution of orphenadrine citrate .
It is intended for intravenous or intramuscular administration .
Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine and occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless , sparingly soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] N , N - Dimethyl - 2 - [ ( o - methyl - α - phenylbenzyl ) oxy ] ethylamine Citrate ( 1 : 1 ) .
Each mL contains : Orphenadrine Citrate 30 mg , Sodium Metabisulfite 0 . 91 mg , Sodium Chloride 2 . 9 mg , in Water for Injection q . s . Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may have been used to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mode of action has not been clearly identified but may be related to analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate possesses anticholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Orphenadrine citrate is indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute , painful musculo - skeletal conditions .
The mode of action of this drug has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Orphenadrine citrate is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction at the bladder neck , cardiospasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Orphenadrine citrate is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Contains Sodium Metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Some patients may experience transient episodes of lightheadedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Usage in Pregnancy : Safe use of orphenadrine citrate has not been established with respect to adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , orphenadrine citrate should be used in women of childbearing potential and particularly during early pregnancy only when in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Usage in Children : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established ; therefore , this drug is not recommended for use in the pediatric age group .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and tachycardia .
Safety of continuous long term therapy with orphenadrine citrate has not been established .
Therefore if orphenadrine citrate is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine , and liver function values is recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse effects of orphenadrine citrate are mainly due to the mild anticholinergic action , and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
Rare instances of anaphylactic reaction have been reported associated with the intramuscular injection of orphenadrine citrate .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : 2 mL ( 60 mg ) intravenously or intramuscularly - May be repeated every 12 hours .
Relief may be maintained by one ( 100 mg ) orphenadrine citrate tablet twice daily .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Orphenadrine Citrate Injection USP , 30 mg / mL is available in 2 mL ampules in cartons of 10 .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
DO NOT USE IF PRECIPITATE OCCURS .
Literature revised : July 2016 Product No . : 1108 - 82 Mfd .
by : Hikma Farmaceutica ( Portugal ) S . A . 2705 - 906 Terrugem SNT , Portugal Dist .
by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Actavis 60 mg 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) Rx Only NDC 0591 - 3222 - 47 Orphenadrine Citrate Injection , USP 60 mg / 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 10 x 2 mL Sterile Ampules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
