For external use ONLY .
Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid unnessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth .
Avoid contact with hair , dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
Skin irritation may occur characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling , Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in lower concentration .
DO NOT USE If you have very sensitive skin or are sensitive to Benzoyl Peroxide .
STOP USE AND ASK DOCTOR if irritation becomes severe .
Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application nto once a day or every other day .
If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and and ask a doctor .
Keep tightly closed and protect product from freezing or becoming excessively hot .
Please refer any questions to 503 . 887 . 7087 or www . abskincare . com One application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness occurs , reduce daily aplication to once a day or every other day .
Water , carbomer , Sodium Dioctyl Sulfosuccinate , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Citrate , Dimethicone , PEG _ 40 , Silica , Sorbitan Stearate , Xanthan Gum If irritation or sensitivy develops stop use of both products and ask a doctor For the treatment of acne Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Benzoyll Peroxide 10 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
