1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Xiidra ® ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease ( DED ) .
Xiidra ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % is a lymphocyte function - associated antigen - 1 ( LFA - 1 ) antagonist indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease ( DED ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of Xiidra twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) into each eye using a single - use container .
Discard the single - use container immediately after using in each eye .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to the administration of Xiidra and may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration .
One drop twice daily in each eye ( approximately 12 hours apart ) .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing lifitegrast 50 mg / mL ( 5 % ) .
Ophthalmic solution containing lifitegrast 50 mg / mL ( 5 % ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Xiidra is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to lifitegrast or to any of the other ingredients in the formulation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity .
( 4 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( incidence 5 % - 25 % ) following the use of Xiidra were instillation - site irritation , dysgeusia , and decreased visual acuity .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In five clinical trials of DED conducted with lifitegrast ophthalmic solution , 1401 patients received at least one dose of lifitegrast ( 1287 of which received lifitegrast 5 % ) .
The majority of patients ( 84 % ) had less than or equal to 3 months of treatment exposure .
One hundred - seventy patients were exposed to lifitegrast for approximately 12 months .
The majority of the treated patients were female ( 77 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported in 5 % - 25 % of patients were instillation - site irritation , dysgeusia , and reduced visual acuity .
Other adverse reactions reported in 1 % - 5 % of the patients were blurred vision , conjunctival hyperemia , eye irritation , headache , increased lacrimation , eye discharge , eye discomfort , eye pruritus , and sinusitis .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Xiidra .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Rare serious cases of hypersensitivity , including anaphylactic reaction , bronchospasm , respiratory distress , pharyngeal edema , swollen tongue , urticaria , allergic conjunctivitis , dyspnea , angioedema , and allergic dermatitis have been reported .
Eye swelling and rash have also been reported [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Xiidra use in pregnant women to inform any drug - associated risks .
Intravenous ( IV ) administration of lifitegrast to pregnant rats , from premating through gestation day 17 , did not produce teratogenicity at clinically relevant systemic exposures .
Intravenous administration of lifitegrast to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis produced an increased incidence of omphalocele at the lowest dose tested , 3 mg / kg / day ( 400 - fold the human plasma exposure at the recommended human ophthalmic dose [ RHOD ] , based on the area under the curve [ AUC ] level ) .
Since human systemic exposure to lifitegrast following ocular administration of Xiidra at the RHOD is low , the applicability of animal findings to the risk of Xiidra use in humans during pregnancy is unclear [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Lifitegrast administered daily by IV injection to rats , from premating through gestation day 17 , caused an increase in mean pre - implantation loss and an increased incidence of several minor skeletal anomalies at 30 mg / kg / day , representing 5 , 400 - fold the human plasma exposure at the RHOD of Xiidra , based on AUC .
No teratogenicity was observed in the rat at 10 mg / kg / day ( 460 - fold the human plasma exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) .
In the rabbit , an increased incidence of omphalocele was observed at the lowest dose tested , 3 mg / kg / day ( 400 - fold the human plasma exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) , when administered by IV injection daily from gestation days 7 through 19 .
A fetal no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was not identified in the rabbit .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lifitegrast in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , systemic exposure to lifitegrast from ocular administration is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Xiidra and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Xiidra .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 17 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION The chemical name for lifitegrast is ( S ) - 2 - ( 2 - ( benzofuran - 6 - carbonyl ) - 5 , 7 - dichloro - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydroisoquinoline - 6 - carboxamido ) - 3 - ( 3 - ( methylsulfonyl ) phenyl ) propanoic acid .
The molecular formula of lifitegrast is C29H24Cl2N2O7S and its molecular weight is 615 . 5 g / mol .
The structural formula of lifitegrast is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Chiral center Lifitegrast is a white to off - white powder , which is soluble in water .
Xiidra ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % is a lymphocyte function - associated antigen - 1 ( LFA - 1 ) antagonist supplied as a sterile , clear , colorless to slightly brownish - yellow colored , isotonic solution of lifitegrast with a pH of 7 . 0 - 8 . 0 , and an osmolality range of 200 - 330 mOsmol / kg .
Xiidra contains Active : lifitegrast 50 mg / mL ; Inactives : sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous , sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate , and water for injection .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lifitegrast binds to the integrin LFA - 1 , a cell surface protein found on leukocytes and blocks the interaction of LFA - 1 with its cognate ligand intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) .
ICAM - 1 may be overexpressed in corneal and conjunctival tissues in DED .
LFA - 1 / ICAM - 1 interaction can contribute to the formation of an immunological synapse resulting in T - cell activation and migration to target tissues .
In vitro studies demonstrated that lifitegrast may inhibit T - cell adhesion to ICAM - 1 in a human T - cell line and may inhibit secretion of inflammatory cytokines in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
The exact mechanism of action of lifitegrast in DED is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a subset of DED patients ( n = 47 ) enrolled in a Phase 3 trial , the pre - dose ( trough ) plasma concentrations of lifitegrast were measured after 180 and 360 days of topical ocular dosing ( one drop twice daily ) with Xiidra ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % .
A total of nine of the 47 patients ( 19 % ) had plasma lifitegrast trough concentrations above 0 . 5 ng / mL ( the lower limit of assay quantitation ) .
Trough plasma concentrations that could be quantitated ranged from 0 . 55 ng / mL to 3 . 74 ng / mL .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Animal studies have not been conducted to determine the carcinogenic potential of lifitegrast .
Mutagenesis Lifitegrast was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames assay .
Lifitegrast was not clastogenic in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay using mammalian cells ( Chinese hamster ovary cells ) , lifitegrast was positive at the highest concentration tested , without metabolic activation .
Impairment of Fertility Lifitegrast administered at IV doses of up to 30 mg / kg / day ( 5400 - fold the human plasma exposure at the RHOD of lifitegrast ophthalmic solution , 5 % ) had no effect on fertility and reproductive performance in male and female - treated rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of lifitegrast for the treatment of DED were assessed in a total of 1181 patients ( 1067 of which received lifitegrast 5 % ) in four 12 - week , randomized , multi - center , double - masked , vehicle - controlled studies .
Patients were randomized to Xiidra or vehicle ( placebo ) in a 1 : 1 ratio and dosed twice a day .
Use of artificial tears was not allowed during the studies .
The mean age was 59 years ( range , 19 - 97 years ) .
The majority of patients were female ( 76 % ) .
Enrollment criteria included minimal signs ( i . e . , Corneal Fluorescein Staining and non - anesthetized Schirmer Tear Test ) and symptoms ( i . e . , Eye Dryness Score ( EDS ) and Ocular Discomfort Score ) severity scores at baseline .
Effects on Symptoms of Dry Eye Disease Eye dryness score was rated by patients using a visual analogue scale ( 0 = no discomfort , 100 = maximal discomfort ) at each study visit .
The average baseline EDS was between 40 and 70 .
A larger reduction in EDS favoring Xiidra was observed in all studies at Day 42 and Day 84 ( see Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 : Mean Change ( SD ) From Baseline and Treatment Difference ( Xiidra – Vehicle ) in Eye Dryness Score in 12 - Week Studies in Patients With Dry Eye Disease [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Based on analysis of covariance ( ANCOVA ) model adjusted for baseline value in Study 1 , and ANCOVA model adjusted for baseline value and randomization stratification factors in Studies 2 - 4 .
All randomized and treated patients were included in the analysis and missing data were imputed using last - available data .
In Study 1 , one Xiidra - treated subject who did not have a baseline value was excluded from analysis .
Effects on Signs of Dry Eye Disease Inferior fluorescein corneal staining score ( ICSS ) ( 0 = no staining , 1 = few / rare punctate lesions , 2 = discrete and countable lesions , 3 = lesions too numerous to count but not coalescent , 4 = coalescent ) was recorded at each study visit .
The average baseline ICSS was approximately 1 . 8 in Studies 1 and 2 , and 2 . 4 in Studies 3 and 4 .
At Day 84 , a larger reduction in ICSS favoring Xiidra was observed in three of the four studies ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 : Mean Change ( SD ) From Baseline and Treatment Difference ( Xiidra – Vehicle ) in Inferior Corneal Staining Score in 12 - Week Studies in Patients With Dry Eye Disease [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Based on ANCOVA model adjusted for baseline value in Study 1 , and ANCOVA model adjusted for baseline value and randomization stratification factors in Studies 2 - 4 .
All randomized and treated patients were included in the analysis and missing data were imputed using last - available data .
In Study 2 , one vehicle - treated subject who did not have a study eye designated was excluded from analysis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Xiidra ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % ( 50 mg / mL ) is supplied in a foil pouch containing 5 low - density polyethylene 0 . 2 mL single - use containers .
Carton of 60 single - use containers NDC 0078 - 0911 - 12 Storage : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Store single - use containers in the original foil pouch .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Handling the Single - use Container Advise patients not to touch the tip of the single - use container to their eye or to any surface , in order to avoid eye injury or contamination of the solution .
Use With Contact Lenses Advise patients that contact lenses should be removed prior to administration of Xiidra and can be reinserted 15 minutes after administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Administration Advise patients that the solution from one single - use container is to be used immediately after opening .
It can be used to dose both eyes .
The single - use container , including any remaining contents should be discarded immediately after administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Storage Information Instruct patients to store single - use containers in the original foil pouch until ready to use [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation One Health Plaza East Hanover , NJ 07936 T2020 - 87 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : June 2020 PATIENT INFORMATION XIIDRA ® ( ZYE - druh ) ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % for topical ophthalmic use What is Xiidra ?
Xiidra is a prescription eye drop solution used to treat the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease ( DED ) .
It is not known if Xiidra is safe and effective in children under 17 years of age .
Do not use Xiidra : • If you are allergic to lifitegrast or any of the other ingredients in Xiidra , see “ What are the ingredients in Xiidra ? ”
Before you use Xiidra , tell your doctor if you : • are using any other eye drops • wear contact lenses • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Xiidra will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Xiidra passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use Xiidra .
How should I use Xiidra ?
See the complete Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information leaflet for detailed instructions about the right way to use Xiidra .
• Use Xiidra as your doctor tells you .
• Use one drop of Xiidra in each eye , two times each day , about 12 hours apart .
• Use Xiidra right away after opening .
Throw away the single - use container and any unused solution after you have applied the dose to both eyes .
Do not save any unused Xiidra for later .
What are the possible side effects of Xiidra ?
The most common side effects of Xiidra include eye irritation , discomfort , or blurred vision when the drops are applied to the eyes , and an unusual taste sensation ( dysgeusia ) .
Seek medical care immediately if you get any symptoms of wheezing , difficulty breathing , or swollen tongue .
These are not all the possible side effects of Xiidra .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Xiidra ?
• Store Xiidra at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store Xiidra in the original foil pouch to protect it from light .
• Do not open the Xiidra foil pouch until you are ready to use the eye drops .
• Return unused single - use containers to their original foil pouch to protect from excessive light exposure .
Keep Xiidra and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Xiidra .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Xiidra that is written for health professionals .
Do not use Xiidra for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Xiidra to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
What are the ingredients in Xiidra ?
Active ingredient : lifitegrast Inactive ingredients : sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous , sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate , and water for injection .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation , One Health Plaza , East Hanover , NJ 07936 For more information , go to www . Xiidra . com or call 1 - 888 - NOW - NOVA .
T2020 - 88 This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : June 2020 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE XIIDRA ® [ ZYE - druh ] ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % for topical ophthalmic use Read this Instructions for Use before you start using Xiidra and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Important Information You Need to Know Before Using Xiidra : • Xiidra is for use in the eye .
• Wash your hands before each use to make sure you do not infect your eyes while using Xiidra .
• If you wear contact lenses , remove them before using Xiidra .
• Xiidra single - use containers are packaged in a foil pouch .
Do not remove from the foil pouch until you are ready to use Xiidra .
• Do not let the tip of the Xiidra single - use container touch your eye or any other surfaces .
• Use one drop of Xiidra in each eye two times each day ( one drop in the morning and one drop in the evening , approximately 12 hours apart ) .
Each single - use container of Xiidra will give you enough medicine to treat both of your eyes , one time .
There is some extra Xiidra in each single - use container in case you miss getting a drop into your eye .
After you have applied the drops , throw away the single - use container and any unused Xiidra .
Do not save any unused Xiidra .
Follow Steps 1 to 9 each time you use Xiidra .
Step 1 .
Take a foil pouch out of the Xiidra box .
Open the pouch and remove the strip of single - use containers ( see Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A • Pull off one single - use container from the strip ( see Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 2 .
Put the remaining strip of single - use containers back in the pouch ( see Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C • Fold the edge to close the pouch ( see Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 3 .
Hold the Xiidra container upright ( see Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E • Tap the top of the container until all of the solution is in the bottom part of the container ( see Figure F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 4 .
Open the Xiidra single - use container by twisting off the tab .
Make sure that the tip of the single - use container does not touch anything , to avoid contamination ( see Figure G ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G Step 5 .
Tilt your head backwards .
If you are not able to tilt your head , lie down .
Step 6 .
Gently pull your lower eyelid downwards and look up .
Step 7 .
Place the tip of the Xiidra single - use container close to your eye , but be careful not to touch your eye with it .
Step 8 .
Gently squeeze the single - use container and let one drop of Xiidra fall into the space between your lower eyelid and your eye .
If a drop misses your eye , try again ( see Figure H ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H Step 9 .
Repeat Steps 5 to 8 for your other eye .
There is enough Xiidra in one single - use container for both eyes .
• Once you have applied a drop to both eyes , throw away the opened single - use container with any remaining solution .
• If you use contact lenses , wait for at least 15 minutes before placing them back in your eyes .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation , One Health Plaza , East Hanover , NJ 07936 T2020 - 89 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0911 - 12 Rx Only 60 Single - Use Containers : 12 pouches x 5 single - use containers ( 0 . 2 mL each ) xiidra ® ( lifitegrast ophthalmic solution ) 5 % NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
