CVS Sore Throat Mixed Berry Flavor Active ingredients ( in each lozenge ) Purpose Benzocaine 7 . 5 mg Oral Pain Reliever Dextromethorphan hydrobromide 5 mg Oral Pain Reliever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms : • occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth and sore throat • pain associated with canker sores • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with common cold Warnings Allergy Alert : Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or any other " caine " anesthetics .
Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , rash , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult a dentist or doctor right away .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 5 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop Use and ask a doctor or dentist if • sore mouth symptom do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling developes • cough lasts for more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and older : take 2 lozenges ( one immediately after the other ) and allow to dissolve slowly in the mouth .
May be repeated every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 lozenges in 24 - hours , or as directed by a doctor • children 6 to under 12 years of age : take 1 lozenge and allow to dissolve slowly in the mouth ; may be repeated every 4 hours • children 6 years of age : do not use Other information • store at room temperature • protect from moisture Inactive ingredients Acesulfame potassium , corn syrup , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , natural and artificial flavors ( medium chain triglycerides ) , propylene glycol , sucrose , and water .
Soybean oil and corn starch used as processing aids .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 245 - 2898 .
Monday through Friday , 9 AM - 4 PM EST .
CVS Sore Throat Lozenges Mixed Berry Flavor 18 Count ( 59779 - 649 - 18 ) CVS pharmacy compare to the active ingredients in Cepacol ** SORE THROAT & COUGH LOZENGES SOOTHING RELIEF BENZOCAINE 7 . 5 mg / DEXTROMETHORPHAN HBr 5 mg Temporarily relieves : • Minor sore throat & mouth irritation • Cough due to minor throat irritation Mixed Berry Flavor 18 LOZENGES DISTRIBUTED BY : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One Cvs Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 2014 CVS / Pharmacy CVS . com 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in the USA This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckftt Bencldser owner af the registered trademark Cepacol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
