1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RECARBRIO is a combination of imipenem , a penem antibacterial , cilastatin , a renal dehydropeptidase inhibitor , and relebactam , a beta - lactamase inhibitor , indicated in patients 18 years of age and older for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible gram - negative microorganisms : • Hospital - acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator - associated bacterial pneumonia ( HABP / VABP ) .
( 1 . 1 ) • Complicated urinary tract infections , including pyelonephritis ( cUTI ) in patients who have limited or no alternative treatment options .
( 1 . 2 ) • Complicated intra - abdominal infections ( cIAI ) in patients who have limited or no alternative treatment options .
( 1 . 3 ) Approval of the cUTI and cIAI indications is based on limited clinical safety and efficacy data for RECARBRIO .
( 1 . 2 , 1 . 3 , 14 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of RECARBRIO and other antibacterial drugs , RECARBRIO should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Hospital - acquired Bacterial Pneumonia and Ventilator - associated Bacterial Pneumonia ( HABP / VABP ) RECARBRIO ™ is indicated for the treatment of patients 18 years of age and older with hospital - acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator - associated bacterial pneumonia , caused by the following susceptible gram - negative microorganisms : Acinetobacter calcoaceticus - baumannii complex , Enterobacter cloacae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella aerogenes , Klebsiella oxytoca , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
1 . 2 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections ( cUTI ) , including Pyelonephritis RECARBRIO is indicated in patients 18 years of age and older who have limited or no alternative treatment options , for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) , including pyelonephritis , caused by the following susceptible gram - negative microorganisms : Enterobacter cloacae , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella aerogenes , Klebsiella pneumoniae , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Approval of this indication is based on limited clinical safety and efficacy data for RECARBRIO [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Complicated Intra - abdominal Infections ( cIAI ) RECARBRIO is indicated in patients 18 years of age and older who have limited or no alternative treatment options for the treatment of complicated intra - abdominal infections ( cIAI ) caused by the following susceptible gram - negative microorganisms : Bacteroides caccae , Bacteroides fragilis , Bacteroides ovatus , Bacteroides stercoris , Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron , Bacteroides uniformis , Bacteroides vulgatus , Citrobacter freundii , Enterobacter cloacae , Escherichia coli , Fusobacterium nucleatum , Klebsiella aerogenes , Klebsiella oxytoca , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Parabacteroides distasonis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Approval of this indication is based on limited clinical safety and efficacy data for RECARBRIO [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 4 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of RECARBRIO and other antibacterial drugs , RECARBRIO should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer RECARBRIO 1 . 25 grams ( imipenem 500 mg , cilastatin 500 mg , relebactam 250 mg ) by intravenous ( IV ) infusion over 30 minutes every 6 hours in patients 18 years of age and older with creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) 90 mL / min or greater .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dosage adjustment in patients with renal impairment .
( 2 . 2 ) Estimated Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) [ 1 ] Recommended Dose of RECARBRIO ( imipenem / cilastatin / relebactam ) ( mg ) administered by IV infusion over 30 minutes every 6 hours 60 to 89 1 gram ( imipenem 400 mg , cilastatin 400 mg , and relebactam 200 mg 30 to 59 0 . 75 grams ( imipenem 300 mg , cilastatin 300 mg , and relebactam 150 mg 15 to 29 0 . 5 grams ( imipenem 200 mg , cilastatin 200 mg , and relebactam 100 mg End Stage Renal Disease on Hemodialysis 0 . 5 grams ( imipenem 200 mg , cilastatin 200 mg , and relebactam 100 mg [ 1 ] CLcr calculated using the Cockcroft - Gault formula .
• Patients with CLcr less than 15 mL / min should not receive RECARBRIO unless hemodialysis is instituted within 48 hours .
( 2 . 2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions for constituting supplied dry powder and subsequent required dilution .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for drug compatibilities and incompatibilities .
( 2 . 6 , 2 . 7 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dosage of RECARBRIO is 1 . 25 grams ( imipenem 500 mg , cilastatin 500 mg , and relebactam 250 mg ) administered by intravenous ( IV ) infusion over 30 minutes every 6 hours in patients 18 years of age and older with creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) of 90 mL / min or greater .
A dose reduction is recommended for patients with CLcr less than 90 mL / min ( Table 1 ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
The severity and location of infection , as well as clinical response should guide the duration of therapy .
The recommended duration of treatment with RECARBRIO is 4 days to 14 days .
2 . 2 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment .
Patients who have a CLcr less than 90 mL / min require dosage reduction of RECARBRIO ( Table 1 ) .
For patients with fluctuating renal function , CLcr should be monitored .
Table 1 : Dosage of RECARBRIO for Adult Patients with Renal ImpairmentEstimated CLcr ( mL / min ) [ 1 ] Recommended Dosage of RECARBRIO ( imipenem / cilastatin and relebactam ) ( mg ) [ 2 ] Dosing Interval RECARBRIO is provided as a single vial in a fixed - dose combination ; the dose for each component will be adjusted equally during preparation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
60 to 89 1 gram ( imipenem 400 mg , cilastatin 400 mg , and relebactam 200 mg ) Every 6 hours 30 to 59 0 . 75 grams ( imipenem 300 mg , cilastatin 300 mg , and relebactam 150 mg ) Every 6 hours 15 to 29 0 . 5 grams ( imipenem 200 mg , cilastatin 200 mg , and relebactam 100 mg ) Every 6 hours End Stage Renal Disease ( ESRD ) on Hemodialysis [ 3 ] 0 . 5 grams ( imipenem 200 mg , cilastatin 200 mg , and relebactam 100 mg ) Every 6 hours [ 1 ] CLcr calculated using the Cockcroft - Gault formula [ 2 ] Administer by IV over 30 minutes .
[ 3 ] Administration should be timed to follow hemodialysis .
Patients with CLcr less than 15 mL / min should not receive RECARBRIO unless hemodialysis is instituted within 48 hours .
There is inadequate information to recommend usage of RECARBRIO for patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis .
Imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam are cleared from the circulation during hemodialysis .
For patients maintained on hemodialysis , administer RECARBRIO after hemodialysis and at intervals timed from the end of that hemodialysis session .
2 . 3 Preparation of RECARBRIO Solution for Intravenous Administration RECARBRIO is supplied as a dry powder in a single - dose vial that must be constituted and further diluted using aseptic technique prior to intravenous infusion .
To prepare the infusion solution , contents of the vial must be constituted with the appropriate diluent as instructed below .
A list of appropriate diluents is as follows : • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP + 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP + 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP + 0 . 225 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP RECARBRIO has low aqueous solubility .
To ensure complete dissolution of RECARBRIO it is important to adhere to the following instructions : • Step 1 ) For diluents available in 100 mL prefilled infusion bags , proceed to step 2 .
For diluents not available in 100 mL prefilled infusion bags , aseptically withdraw 100 mL of the desired diluent and transfer it to an empty infusion bag , then proceed to step 2 .
• Step 2 ) Withdraw 20 mL ( as two 10 mL aliquots ) of diluent from the appropriate infusion bag and constitute the vial with one 10 mL aliquot of the diluent .
The constituted suspension is for intravenous infusion only after dilution in an appropriate infusion solution .
• Step 3 ) After constitution , shake vial well and transfer resulting suspension into the remaining 80 mL of the infusion bag .
• Step 4 ) Add the second 10 mL aliquot of infusion diluent to the vial and shake well to ensure complete transfer of vial contents ; repeat transfer of the resulting suspension to the infusion solution before administering .
Agitate the resulting mixture until clear .
Constituted solutions of RECARBRIO range from colorless to yellow .
Variations of color within this range do not affect the potency of the product .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Discard if discoloration or visible particles are observed .
The above instructions for preparation of RECARBRIO solution for intravenous administration must be followed for all patients , irrespective of the intended patient ' s renal function .
The volume of this prepared RECARBRIO solution to be administered to patients is determined based on renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 4 Preparation of RECARBRIO Solution for Intravenous Administration in Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with renal impairment , prepare a reduced dose of RECARBRIO ( 1 gram , 0 . 75 grams , or 0 . 5 grams ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] by preparing a 100 mL solution containing 1 . 25 grams ( as described above in Section 2 . 3 ) then withdrawing and discarding the excess according to Table 2 .
Table 2 : Preparation of Reduced RECARBRIO Doses for Intravenous Administration in Patients with Renal ImpairmentCreatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) Dosage of RECARBRIO ( imipenem / cilastatin / relebactam ) After preparation as instructed above , remove from the 100 mL prepared bag the volume indicated below and discard Resulting volume that provides the indicated reduced dose 60 to 89 1 gram ( imipenem 400 mg , cilastatin 400 mg , and relebactam 200 mg ) 20 mL 80 mL 30 to 59 0 . 75 grams ( imipenem 300 mg , cilastatin 300 mg , and relebactam 150 mg ) 40 mL 60 mL 15 to 29 or ESRD on hemodialysis 0 . 5 grams ( imipenem 200 mg , cilastatin 200 mg , and relebactam 100 mg ) 60 mL 40 mL 2 . 5 Storage of Constituted Solution RECARBRIO , as supplied in single - dose glass vials upon constitution with the appropriate diluent and following further dilution in the infusion bag , maintains satisfactory potency for at least 2 hours at room temperature ( up to 30 ° C ) or for at least 24 hours under refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze solutions of RECARBRIO .
2 . 6 Compatible Injectable Drug Products Compatible Drug Products The physical compatibility of RECARBRIO with selected injectable drug products was evaluated in two commonly available diluents .
Compatible drugs with the corresponding compatible diluent ( i . e . , 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ) are listed below .
RECARBRIO should not be co - administered through the same intravenous line ( or cannula ) , with other drug products not listed below , as no compatibility data are available .
Refer to the respective prescribing information of the co - administered drug ( s ) to confirm compatibility of simultaneous co - administration .
List of Compatible Injectable Drugs for use with 5 % Dextrose USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride USP Injection as Diluents • dexmedetomidine • dopamine • epinephrine • fentanyl • heparin • midazolam • norepinephrine • phenylephrine 2 . 7 Incompatible Injectable Drug Products RECARBRIO for injection for intravenous infusion is physically incompatible with propofol in 5 % Dextrose USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride USP .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS RECARBRIO ( imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam ) for injection , 1 . 25 grams is supplied as a white to light yellow sterile powder for constitution in a single - dose glass vial containing imipenem 500 mg ( equivalent to 530 mg imipenem monohydrate ) , cilastatin 500 mg ( equivalent to 531 mg cilastatin sodium ) , and relebactam 250 mg ( equivalent to 263 mg relebactam monohydrate ) .
RECARBRIO 1 . 25 grams for injection is supplied as sterile powder for constitution in a single - dose vial containing imipenem 500 mg ( anhydrate equivalent ) , cilastatin 500 mg ( free acid equivalent ) , and relebactam 250 mg ( anhydrate equivalent ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS RECARBRIO is contraindicated in patients with a history of known severe hypersensitivity ( severe systemic allergic reaction such as anaphylaxis ) to any component of RECARBRIO .
RECARBRIO is contraindicated in patients with a history of known severe hypersensitivity to any component of RECARBRIO .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients receiving beta lactam drugs .
Discontinue RECARBRIO immediately if a hypersensitivity reaction occurs .
( 5 . 1 ) • Seizures and Central Nervous System Adverse Reactions : CNS adverse reactions such as seizures have been reported with imipenem / cilastatin , a component of RECARBRIO .
If focal tremors , myoclonus , or seizures occur , evaluate patients , to determine whether RECARBRIO should be discontinued .
( 5 . 2 ) • Increased Seizure Potential Due to Interaction with Valproic Acid : Concomitant use of RECARBRIO with valproic acid or divalproex sodium may reduce the serum concentration of valproic acid which may increase the risk of breakthrough seizures .
Avoid concomitant use or consider alternative antibacterial drugs other than carbapenems .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 2 ) • Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) : Has been reported with RECARBRIO .
Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with beta lactams .
Before initiating therapy with RECARBRIO , careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to carbapenems , penicillins , cephalosporins , other beta lactams , and other allergens .
If a hypersensitivity reaction to RECARBRIO occurs , discontinue the therapy immediately .
RECARBRIO is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity to any component of RECARBRIO [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Seizures and Other Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions CNS adverse reactions , such as seizures , confusional states , and myoclonic activity , have been reported during treatment with imipenem / cilastatin , a component of RECARBRIO , especially when recommended dosages of imipenem were exceeded .
These have been reported most commonly in patients with CNS disorders ( e . g . , brain lesions or history of seizures ) and / or compromised renal function .
Anticonvulsant therapy should be continued in patients with known seizure disorders .
If CNS adverse reactions including seizures occur , patients should undergo a neurological evaluation to determine whether RECARBRIO should be discontinued .
5 . 3 Increased Seizure Potential Due to Interaction with Valproic Acid Concomitant use of RECARBRIO , with valproic acid or divalproex sodium may increase the risk of breakthrough seizures .
Avoid concomitant use of RECARBRIO with valproic acid or divalproex sodium or consider alternative antibacterial drugs other than carbapenems [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including RECARBRIO , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial drug treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 5 Development of Drug - resistant Bacteria Prescribing RECARBRIO in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Seizures and Other Central Nervous System Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Increased Seizure Potential Due to Interaction with Valproic Acid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • HABP / VABP Patients : The most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients treated with RECARBRIO were alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , anemia , diarrhea , hypokalemia , and hyponatremia .
( 6 ) • cUTI and cIAI Patients : The most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 2 % of patients treated with imipenem / cilastatin plus relebactam 250 mg , the components of RECARBRIO , were diarrhea , nausea , headache , vomiting , alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , phlebitis / infusion site reactions , pyrexia , and hypertension .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC at 1 - 877 - 888 - 4231 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Overview of the Safety Evaluation of RECARBRIO Safety was primarily evaluated in three active - controlled , double - blind trials in HABP / VABP , cUTI , and cIAI ( Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 , respectively ) .
In the HABP / VABP trial ( Trial 1 ) , patients were treated with either RECARBRIO or piperacillin and tazobactam ( 4 . 5 grams ) .
In the cUTI trial ( Trial 2 ) and cIAI trial ( Trial 3 ) , patients in the treatment arms were treated with either imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg and relebactam 250 mg or imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg and relebactam 125 mg ( not an approved dose ) , and patients in the control arm were treated with imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus placebo ( IV normal saline ) .
Across Trials 2 and 3 , the mean duration of IV therapy in patients treated with imipenem / cilastatin plus relebactam 250 mg was approximately 7 days .
Clinical Trial Experience in Patients with HABP / VABP Trial 1 included 266 adult patients treated with RECARBRIO and 269 patients treated with piperacillin and tazobactam ( 4 . 5 grams ) administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 hours .
The mean age was 60 years , 43 % of patients were 65 years of age and older , 31 % were female and 22 % had polymicrobial infection .
The mean Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation ( APACHE ) II score was 15 and 48 % of patients had an APACHE II score greater than or equal to 15 at baseline .
Overall , 260 ( 49 % ) patients were ventilated at enrollment , including 194 ( 36 % ) patients with VABP and 66 ( 12 % ) patients with ventilated HABP .
Clinical Trial Experience in Patients with cUTI including , Pyelonephritis Trial 2 included 198 adult patients treated with imipenem / cilastatin and relebactam ( 99 patients each with imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 125 mg or relebactam 250 mg ) and 100 patients treated with imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg , administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 hours .
After a minimum of 4 days of IV therapy , patients could be switched to oral ciprofloxacin ( 500 mg daily every 12 hours ) to complete the treatment course of 4 to 14 days total ( IV plus oral ) , at the discretion of the investigator .
The mean age was 56 years , 40 % of patients were 65 years of age and older , 16 % were 75 years of age and older , 50 % were female , and approximately 18 % had moderate to severe renal impairment .
Clinical Trial Experience in Patients with cIAI Trial 3 included 233 adult patients treated with imipenem / cilastatin plus relebactam ( 116 subjects with imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg and relebactam 125 mg and 117 subjects with imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg ) , and 114 patients treated with imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg , administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 hours for 4 to 14 days , at the discretion of the investigator .
The mean age was 49 years , 23 % of the patients were 65 years of age and older , 9 . 8 % were 75 years of age and older , and 42 % were female .
Serious Adverse Reactions and Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation In Trial 1 , serious adverse reactions occurred in 27 % ( 71 / 266 ) of patients receiving RECARBRIO and 32 % ( 86 / 269 ) of patients receiving piperacillin and tazobactam .
Adverse reactions leading to death were reported in 15 % ( 40 / 266 ) of patients receiving RECARBRIO and 21 % ( 57 / 269 ) of patients receiving piperacillin and tazobactam .
Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation occurred in 5 . 6 % ( 15 / 266 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg / relebactam 250 mg and 8 . 2 % ( 22 / 269 ) of patients receiving piperacillin and tazobactam .
In Trials 2 and 3 , serious adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 2 % ( 7 / 216 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg and 5 . 1 % ( 11 / 214 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg .
There were no deaths reported in patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg or imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg alone .
Deaths were reported in 1 . 4 % ( 3 / 215 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 125 mg ( not an approved dose ) .
Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation occurred in 1 . 9 % ( 4 / 216 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg and 2 . 3 % ( 5 / 214 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg .
Common Adverse Reactions In Trial 1 , adverse reactions occurred during the protocol - specified follow - up period , which was IV therapy plus 14 days following completion of therapy , in 85 % ( 226 / 266 ) of patients receiving RECARBRIO and 87 % ( 233 / 269 ) of patients receiving piperacillin and tazobactam .
Table 3 lists the most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 4 % of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg / relebactam 250 mg or piperacillin and tazobactam in Trial 1 .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in Greater Than or Equal to 4 % of HABP / VABP Patients Receiving RECARBRIO in Trial 1 Adverse Reaction RECARBRIO [ 1 ] ( N = 266 ) N ( % ) Piperacillin / Tazobactam [ 2 ] ( N = 269 ) N ( % ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Anemia 28 ( 10 . 5 % ) 27 ( 10 . 0 % ) Gastrointestinal disorders Constipation 11 ( 4 . 1 % ) 3 ( 1 . 1 % ) Diarrhea 21 ( 7 . 9 % ) 30 ( 11 . 2 % ) General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 11 ( 4 . 1 % ) 20 ( 7 . 4 % ) Laboratory investigations Alanine aminotransferase increased 26 ( 9 . 8 % ) 19 ( 7 . 1 % ) Aspartate aminotransferase increased 31 ( 11 . 7 % ) 20 ( 7 . 4 % ) Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hypokalemia [ 3 ] 21 ( 7 . 9 % ) 26 ( 9 . 7 % ) Hyponatremia [ 4 ] 17 ( 6 . 4 % ) 3 ( 1 . 1 % ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash [ 5 ] 11 ( 4 . 1 % ) 5 ( 1 . 9 % ) [ 1 ] RECARBRIO , IV every 6 hours .
[ 2 ] Piperacillin 4000 mg and Tazobactam 500 mg ( 4 . 5 grams ) , IV every 6 hours .
[ 3 ] Hypokalemia includes hypokalemia and blood potassium decreased .
[ 4 ] Hyponatremia includes hyponatremia and blood sodium decreased .
[ 5 ] Rash includes rash , rash erythematous , and rash generalized .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Reported in Trial 1 The following selected adverse reaction was reported in RECARBRIO - treated subjects at a rate of less than 4 % : Blood and lymphatic system disorders : thrombocytopenia In Trials 2 and 3 , adverse reactions occurred during the protocol - specified follow - up period , which was IV therapy plus 14 days following completion of therapy , in 39 % ( 85 / 216 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg and 36 % ( 77 / 214 ) of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg .
Table 4 lists the most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients receiving imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg or imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg in Trials 2 and 3 .
Table 4 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in Greater Than or Equal to 1 % of cUTI and cIAI Patients Receiving Imipenem / Cilastatin plus Relebactam 250 mg or Imipenem / Cilastatin in Trials 2 and 3 Adverse Reaction Imipenem / Cilastatin and Relebactam 250 mg [ 1 ] ( N = 216 ) N ( % ) IMI + Placebo [ 2 ] ( N = 214 ) N ( % ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Anemia [ 3 ] 2 ( 1 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 12 ( 6 % ) 9 ( 4 % ) Nausea 12 ( 6 % ) 12 ( 6 % ) Vomiting 7 ( 3 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) General disorders and administration site conditions Phlebitis / Infusion site reactions [ 4 ] 5 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) Pyrexia 5 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) Laboratory Investigations Alanine aminotransferase increased 7 ( 3 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Aspartate aminotransferase increased 6 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) Lipase increased 3 ( 1 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Blood creatinine increased 1 ( < 1 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) Nervous system disorders Headache 9 ( 4 % ) 5 ( 2 % ) Central nervous system adverse reactions [ 5 ] 2 ( 1 % ) 5 ( 2 % ) Vascular disorders Hypertension [ 6 ] 4 ( 2 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) [ 1 ] Imipenem / Cilastatin ( 500 mg / 500 mg ) + Relebactam ( 250 mg ) , IV every 6 hours .
[ 2 ] Imipenem / Cilastatin ( 500 mg / 500 mg ) + Placebo , IV every 6 hours .
[ 3 ] Anemia includes anemia and hemoglobin decreased .
[ 4 ] Infusion site reactions include infusion site phlebitis , infusion site erythema , and infusion site pain .
[ 5 ] Central nervous system adverse reactions include agitation , apathy , confusional states , delirium , disorientation , slow speech , and somnolence .
[ 6 ] Hypertension includes hypertension and blood pressure increased .
Other Adverse Reactions Associated with Imipenem / Cilastatin Adverse reactions reported with imipenem / cilastatin , a component of RECARBRIO , in clinical studies or during post - marketing experience are listed below .
These adverse reactions are not listed above for patients treated with RECARBRIO in Trial 1 or imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg plus relebactam 250 mg in Trials 2 and 3 .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : agranulocytosis , increased eosinophils , hemolytic anemia Nervous System Disorders : seizure Hepatobiliary Disorders : hepatic failure , jaundice Laboratory Investigations : blood lactate dehydrogenase increased , coombs test positive , eosinophil count increased .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Ganciclovir : Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) • Valproic Acid or Divalproex Sodium : Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Ganciclovir Generalized seizures have been reported in patients who received ganciclovir concomitantly with imipenem / cilastatin , a component of RECARBRIO .
Ganciclovir should not be used concomitantly with RECARBRIO unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks .
7 . 2 Valproic Acid Based on case reports in the literature concomitant use of carbapenems , including imipenem / cilastatin , components of RECARBRIO , with valproic acid or divalproex sodium may decrease valproic acid concentrations which may increase the risk of breakthrough seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Although the mechanism of this interaction is unknown , data from in vitro and animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid ' s glucuronide metabolite ( VPA - g ) back to valproic acid , thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid .
Avoid concomitant use of RECARBRIO with valproic acid or divalproex sodium .
Consider alternative antibacterials other than carbapenems to treat infections in patients whose seizures are well controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Embryonic loss was observed in monkeys treated with imipenem / cilastatin , and fetal abnormalities were observed in relebactam - treated mice ; therefore , advise pregnant women of the potential risks to pregnancy and the fetus .
There are insufficient human data to establish whether there is a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with RECARBRIO , imipenem , cilastatin , or relebactam in pregnant women .
Developmental toxicity studies with imipenem and cilastatin ( alone or in combination ) administered parenterally during organogenesis to mice , rats , rabbits , and monkeys at doses 1 to 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD of imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg every 6 hours for total daily doses of imipenem 2000 mg / cilastatin 2000 mg ) based on body surface area comparison , showed no drug - induced fetal malformations .
Embryofetal development studies with imipenem / cilastatin administered to cynomolgus monkeys at doses similar to the MRHD ( based on body surface area comparison ) showed an increase in embryonic loss .
In an embryofetal study , parental administration of relebactam to pregnant mice during the period of organogenesis was associated with a non - dose responsive increase in the litter incidence of cleft palate at a plasma relebactam exposure approximately equal to the human exposure at the MRHD ( 250 mg every 6 hours for a daily dose of 1000 mg ) and an increased percent litter incidence of total skeletal malformations at a plasma exposure approximately 6 times the human exposure at the MRHD .
Reproductive studies with relebactam administered parenterally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at plasma exposures up to 7 and 24 times , respectively , the plasma exposure in humans at the MRHD showed no adverse effects on pregnancy or embryofetal development .
Relebactam administered to rats during gestation through lactation was not associated with fetal toxicity , developmental delays , or impaired reproduction in first generation offspring at plasma exposures equivalent to 8 times the human exposure at the MRHD ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % and miscarriage is 15 to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies within the U . S . general population .
Data Animal Data Imipenem and Cilastatin Reproductive toxicity studies with imipenem and cilastatin ( alone or in combination ) administered parenterally to mice , rats , and rabbits showed no evidence of effects on embryofetal ( mice , rats , and rabbits ) or pre / postnatal ( rats ) development .
In embryofetal development studies , imipenem was administered intravenously to rats ( gestation days ( GD ) 7 to 17 ) , and rabbits ( GD 6 to 18 ) , at doses up to 900 and 60 mg / kg / day , respectively , approximately 4 and 0 . 6 times the MRHD ( based on body surface area comparison ) .
Cilastatin was administered subcutaneously to rats ( GD 6 to 17 ) and intravenously to rabbits ( GD 6 to 18 ) at doses up to 1000 and 300 mg / kg / day , respectively , approximately 5 and 3 times the MRHD ( based on body surface area comparison ) .
Imipenem / cilastatin was administered intravenously to mice at doses up to 320 mg / kg / day ( GD 6 to 15 ) which is approximately equivalent to the MRHD based on body surface area comparison , and to rats at intravenous doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and a subcutaneous dose of 320 mg / kg / day ( GD 6 to 17 ) .
In a separate pre - postnatal development study , rats were administered subcutaneous imipenem / cilastatin at doses up to 320 mg / kg / day ( GD 15 to day 21 postpartum ) .
The subcutaneous dose of 320 mg / kg / day in rats is approximately double the MRHD based on body surface area comparison .
Imipenem / cilastatin administered intravenously to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during organogenesis ( GD 21 to 50 ) at 100 mg / kg / day , a dose approximately equivalent to the MRHD ( based on body surface area comparison ) , at an infusion rate mimicking human clinical use was not associated with fetal malformations , but there was an increase in embryonic loss relative to controls .
Imipenem / cilastatin administered to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during organogenesis at 40 mg / kg / day by bolus intravenous injection caused significant maternal toxicity including death and embryofetal loss .
Relebactam In an embryofetal development study in pregnant mice , relebactam administered subcutaneously in doses of 80 , 200 , and 450 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis ( GD 6 to 17 ) was not associated with maternal toxicity at doses up to 450 mg / kg / day .
However , although individual skeletal malformations appeared only as single occurrences in the high dose group , the percent litter incidence of total skeletal malformations ( skull and vertebral ) was increased in the high - dose group ( 21 % litter incidence ) compared to the concurrent control value ( 5 . 3 % litter incidence ) .
The plasma relebactam exposure for the high dose associated with increased skeletal malformations was approximately 6 times greater than the human plasma exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison .
Also , mice receiving the lowest administered dose of relebactam , 80 mg / kg / day , exhibited a higher percent litter incidence ( 15 % litter incidence ) of cleft palate ( a rare malformation in mice ) compared to the concurrent control value ( 0 % litter incidence ) and historical control values ( up to 11 % litter incidence ) .
This finding did not increase in a dose - dependent manner with percent litter incidences of 0 % and 5 . 3 % in the mid - and high - dose groups respectively .
The plasma AUC exposure for the low dose of relebactam associated with increased cleft palate was approximately equivalent to the human plasma AUC at the MRHD .
In embryofetal development studies in rats and rabbits , intravenous relebactam was administered to rats in doses of 50 , 150 , and 450 mg / kg / day and rabbits in doses of 35 , 275 , and 450 mg / kg / day .
In these studies , relebactam administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant rats ( GD 6 to 20 ) and rabbits ( GD 7 to 20 ) was not associated with maternal or embryofetal toxicity at doses up to 450 mg / kg / day corresponding to plasma AUC exposures of approximately 7 and 24 times , respectively , the human plasma AUC at the MRHD .
In a pre - postnatal development study , relebactam administered intravenously in doses of 65 , 200 , and 450 mg / kg / day to rats from GD 6 to lactation day ( LD ) 20 produced no maternal toxicity and did not impair the physical and behavioral development or reproduction in first generation offspring at doses up to 450 mg / kg / day corresponding to a plasma AUC exposure of approximately 8 times the plasma AUC exposure in humans at the MRHD .
Studies in pregnant rats and rabbits showed that relebactam is transferred to the fetus through the placenta , with fetal plasma concentrations up to 5 % to 6 % of maternal concentrations observed on GD 20 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are insufficient data on the presence of imipenem / cilastatin and relebactam in human milk , and no data on the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Relebactam is present in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for RECARBRIO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from RECARBRIO or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Relebactam administered intravenously to lactating rats at a dose of 450 mg / kg / day ( GD 6 to LD 14 ) , was excreted into the milk with concentrations of approximately 5 % that of maternal plasma concentrations .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of RECARBRIO in patients younger than 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 266 patients treated with RECARBRIO in Trial 1 , 113 ( 42 . 5 % ) were 65 years of age or older , including 55 ( 20 . 7 % ) patients 75 years of age and older .
Of the 216 patients treated with imipenem / cilastatin plus relebactam 250 mg in Trials 2 and 3 , 67 ( 31 . 0 % ) were 65 years of age or older , including 25 ( 11 . 6 % ) patients 75 years of age and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
RECARBRIO is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
No dosage adjustment is required based on age .
Dosage adjustment for elderly patients should be based on renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Reduce RECARBRIO dosage in patients with a CLcr less than 90 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose , discontinue RECARBRIO , treat symptomatically , and institute general supportive treatment .
Imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam can be removed by hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No clinical information is available on the use of hemodialysis to treat overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION RECARBRIO ( imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam ) for injection is an antibacterial combination product consisting of imipenem , a carbapenem antibacterial drug , cilastatin , a renal dehydropeptidase inhibitor , and relebactam , a diazabicyclooctane beta - lactamase inhibitor , for intravenous administration .
Imipenem Imipenem is a beta lactam antibacterial drug .
Imipenem ( N - formimidoylthienamycin monohydrate ) is a crystalline derivative of thienamycin , which is produced by Streptomyces cattleya .
The chemical name is ( 5 R , 6 S ) - 3 - [ [ 2 - ( formimidoylamino ) ethyl ] thio ] - 6 - [ ( R ) - 1 - hydroxyethyl ] - 7 - oxo - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] hept - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid monohydrate .
It is an off - white , non - hygroscopic crystalline compound , sparingly soluble in water .
The empirical formula is C12H17N3O4S ∙ H2O and the molecular weight is 317 . 37 .
Figure 1 : Chemical structure of imipenem [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cilastatin Cilastatin sodium is the sodium salt of a derivatized heptenoic acid .
The chemical name is sodium ( Z ) - 7 - [ [ ( R ) - 2 - amino - 2 - carboxyethyl ] thio ] - 2 - [ ( S ) - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamido ] - 2 - heptenoate .
It is an off - white to white , hygroscopic , amorphous compound , very soluble in water .
The empirical formula is C16H25N2NaO5S and the molecular weight is 380 . 44 .
Figure 2 : Chemical structure of cilastatin sodium [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relebactam Relebactam is a beta - lactamase inhibitor .
It is a crystalline monohydrate .
The chemical name is ( 1 R , 2 S , 5 R ) - 7 - oxo - 2 - ( piperidin - 1 - ium - 4 - ylcarbamoyl ) - 1 , 6 - diazabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] octan - 6 - yl sulfate hydrate .
It is a white to off - white powder , soluble in water .
The empirical formula is C12H20N4O6S ∙ H2O and the molecular weight is 366 . 39 .
Figure 3 : Chemical structure of relebactam [ MULTIMEDIA ] RECARBRIO is supplied as a white to light yellow sterile powder for constitution in a single - dose vial containing 500 mg imipenem ( equivalent to 530 mg imipenem monohydrate ) , 500 mg cilastatin ( equivalent to 531 mg cilastatin sodium ) , and 250 mg relebactam ( equivalent to 263 mg relebactam monohydrate ) .
Each vial of RECARBRIO is buffered with 20 mg sodium bicarbonate to provide solutions in the pH range of 6 . 5 to 7 . 6 .
The total sodium content of the mixture in the vial is 37 . 5 mg ( 1 . 6 mEq ) .
Solutions of RECARBRIO range from colorless to yellow .
Variations of color within this range do not affect the potency of the product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action RECARBRIO is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics For imipenem , the % time of dosing interval that unbound plasma concentrations of imipenem exceed the imipenem / relebactam minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) ( % fT > MIC ) against the infecting organism best correlates with antibacterial activity in animal and in vitro models of infection .
For relebactam the ratio of the 24 - hour unbound plasma relebactam AUC to imipenem / relebactam MIC ( fAUC0 – 24 hr / MIC ) best predicts the activity of relebactam in animal and in vitro models of infection .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose 4 . 6 times the recommended dose , relebactam does not prolong the QTc interval to a clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of imipenem and relebactam in patients with active bacterial infection with CLcr 90 mL / min or greater following administration of the recommended dosage are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Population Pharmacokinetic Model - Based Steady State Mean ( ± SD ) Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Imipenem and Relebactam After Multiple 30 Minute Intravenous Infusions [ 1 ] of Imipenem 500 mg / Cilastatin 500 mg and Relebactam 250 mg Every 6 Hours in Patients with CLcr 90 mL / min or Greater PK Parameters cUTI / cIAI Patients HABP / VABP Patients AUC0 - 24 hr = area under the concentration time curve from 0 to 24 hours Cmax = maximum concentration CL = plasma clearance Imipenem AUC0 - 24 hr ( µM - hr ) 570 . 6 ( 253 . 3 ) 771 ( 342 . 3 ) Cmax ( µM ) 116 . 1 ( 52 . 4 ) 122 . 7 ( 56 . 8 ) CL ( L / hr ) 14 ( 6 . 1 ) 10 . 4 ( 4 . 5 ) Relebactam AUC0 - 24 hr ( µM - hr ) 415 . 8 ( 212 . 6 ) 692 . 9 ( 354 . 3 ) Cmax ( µM ) 62 . 1 ( 24 . 7 ) 80 ( 33 . 3 ) CL ( L / hr ) 8 . 7 ( 4 . 5 ) 5 . 2 ( 2 . 7 ) [ 1 ] Imipenem / cilastatin and relebactam were administered either as separate infusions given concurrently or as the fixed dose combination ( RECARBRIO ) .
Distribution The binding of imipenem and cilastatin to human plasma proteins is approximately 20 % and 40 % , respectively .
The binding of relebactam to human plasma proteins is approximately 22 % and is independent of concentration at a range of 5 to 50 µM .
The penetration of imipenem and relebactam into pulmonary epithelial lining fluid is similar , with concentrations around 55 % and 54 % of unbound plasma concentrations of imipenem and relebactam , respectively .
The steady - state volume of distribution of imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam is 24 . 3 L , 13 . 8 L , and 19 . 0 L , respectively , in subjects following multiple doses infused over 30 minutes every 6 hours .
Elimination Imipenem and relebactam are eliminated from the body by the kidneys with a mean ( ± SD ) half - life of 1 ( ± 0 . 5 ) hour and 1 . 2 ( ± 0 . 7 ) hours , respectively .
Metabolism Imipenem , when administered alone , is metabolized in the kidneys by dehydropeptidase , resulting in low levels of imipenem recovered in human urine .
Cilastatin , an inhibitor of this enzyme , effectively prevents renal metabolism so that when imipenem and cilastatin are given concomitantly , adequate concentrations of imipenem are achieved in the urine to enable antibacterial activity .
Relebactam is minimally metabolized .
Unchanged relebactam was the only drug - related component detected in human plasma .
Excretion Imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam are mainly excreted by the kidneys .
Following multiple - dose administration of imipenem 500 mg , cilastatin 500 mg , and relebactam 250 mg to healthy male subjects , approximately 63 % of the administered imipenem dose , and 77 % of the administered cilastatin dose are recovered as unchanged parent drugs in the urine .
The renal excretion of imipenem and cilastatin involves both glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion .
Greater than 90 % of the administered relebactam dose was excreted unchanged in human urine .
The unbound renal clearance of relebactam is greater than the glomerular filtration rate , suggesting that in addition to glomerular filtration , active tubular secretion is involved in the renal elimination , accounting for ~ 30 % of the total clearance .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of imipenem , cilastatin , or relebactam were observed based on age , gender , or race / ethnicity .
Patients with Renal Impairment In a single - dose trial evaluating the effect of renal impairment on the PK of relebactam 125 mg co - infused with imipenem / cilastatin 250 mg ( half the recommended dose in patients with normal renal function ) , mean AUC was higher in subjects with CLcr 60 - 89 , 30 - 59 , and 15 - 29 mL / min , respectively , compared to healthy subjects with CLcr 90 mL / min or greater ( Table 6 ) .
In subjects with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) on hemodialysis , imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam are removed by hemodialysis , with extraction coefficients of 66 % to 87 % for imipenem , 46 % to 56 % for cilastatin , and 67 % to 87 % for relebactam .
Table 6 : Mean AUC Increase in Subjects with Renal Impairment Compared to Subjects with CLcr 90 mL / min or GreaterEstimated CLcr ( mL / min ) Imipenem Cilastatin Relebactam 60 to 89 1 . 1 - fold 1 . 2 - fold 1 . 2 - fold 30 to 59 1 . 7 - fold 2 . 0 - fold 2 . 2 - fold 15 to 29 2 . 6 - fold 5 . 5 - fold 4 . 7 - fold To maintain systemic exposures similar to patients with normal renal function , dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
ESRD patients on hemodialysis should receive RECARBRIO after hemodialysis session [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam are primarily cleared renally ; therefore , hepatic impairment is not likely to have any effect on RECARBRIO exposures .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies No drug - drug interaction was observed among imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam in a clinical study in healthy subjects .
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of imipenem or relebactam were observed when RECARBRIO was used concomitantly with probenecid ( Organic Anion Transporter 3 ( OAT3 ) inhibitor ) .
In Vitro Studies CYP Enzymes Relebactam does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 or induce CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 in human hepatocytes .
Transporter Systems Relebactam does not inhibit OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , P - gp , BCRP , MATE1 , MATE2K , or BSEP .
Relebactam is not a substrate of OAT1 , OCT2 , P - gp , BCRP , MRP2 , or MRP4 transporters , but is a substrate of OAT3 , OAT4 , MATE1 , and MATE2K transporters .
The following antibacterial and antifungal drugs ( piperacillin / tazobactam , ciprofloxacin , fluconazole , ampicillin , levofloxacin , metronidazole , vancomycin , linezolid , daptomycin , and cefazolin ) did not significantly inhibit OAT3 - mediated relebactam uptake .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action RECARBRIO is a combination of imipenem / cilastatin and relebactam .
Imipenem is a penem antibacterial drug , cilastatin sodium is a renal dehydropeptidase inhibitor , and relebactam is a beta - lactamase inhibitor .
Cilastatin limits the renal metabolism of imipenem and does not have antibacterial activity .
The bactericidal activity of imipenem results from binding to PBP 2 and PBP 1 B in Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the subsequent inhibition of penicillin binding proteins ( PBPs ) .
Inhibition of PBPs leads to the disruption of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Imipenem is stable in the presence of some beta - lactamases .
Relebactam has no intrinsic antibacterial activity .
Relebactam protects imipenem from degradation by certain serine beta - lactamases such as Sulfhydryl Variable ( SHV ) , Temoneira ( TEM ) , Cefotaximase - Munich ( CTX - M ) , Enterobacter cloacae P99 ( P99 ) , Pseudomonas - derived cephalosporinase ( PDC , AmpC - type ) , and Klebsiella - pneumoniae carbapenemase ( KPC ) .
Resistance Clinical isolates may produce multiple beta - lactamases , express varying levels of beta - lactamases , have amino acid sequence variations , or have other resistance mechanisms that have not yet been identified .
Culture and susceptibility information and local epidemiology should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
Mechanisms of beta lactam resistance in gram - negative organisms include the production of beta - lactamases , up - regulation of efflux pumps , and loss of outer membrane porins .
Imipenem / relebactam retains activity in the presence of the tested efflux pumps .
Imipenem / relebactam has shown activity against some isolates of P . aeruginosa and Enterobacteriaceae that produce relebactam - susceptible beta - lactamases concomitant with loss of entry porins .
Imipenem / relebactam is not active against most isolates containing metallo - beta - lactamases ( MBLs ) , some oxacillinases with carbapenemase activity , as well as certain alleles of GES .
Imipenem / relebactam demonstrated in vitro activity against some Enterobacteriaceae isolates genotypically characterized for some beta - lactamases and extended - spectrum beta - lactamases ( ESBLs ) of the following groups : KPC , TEM , SHV , CTX - M , CMY , DHA , and ACT / MIR .
Many of the Enterobacteriaceae isolates that were not susceptible to imipenem - relebactam were genotypically characterized and the genes encoding MBLs or certain oxacillinases were present .
Imipenem / relebactam demonstrated in vitro activity against genotypically characterized P . aeruginosa isolates containing certain known resistance factors : some chromosomal PDC alleles with ESBLs , and some with loss of outer membrane porin ( OprD ) with or without co - expression of up - regulated efflux pumps ( MexAB , MexCD , MexJK , and MexXY ) .
Genotypically characterized P . aeruginosa isolates that were not susceptible to imipenem / relebactam encoded some MBL , KPC , PER , GES , VEB , and PDC alleles .
Methicillin - resistant staphylococci should be considered resistant to imipenem .
Imipenem is inactive in vitro against Enterococcus faecium , Stenotrophomonas maltophilia , and some isolates of Burkholderia cepacia .
No cross - resistance with other classes of antimicrobials has been identified .
Some isolates resistant to carbapenems ( including imipenem ) and to cephalosporins may be susceptible to RECARBRIO .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials In vitro studies have demonstrated no antagonism between imipenem / relebactam and amikacin , azithromycin , aztreonam , colistin , gentamicin , levofloxacin , linezolid , tigecycline , tobramycin , or vancomycin .
Activity against Imipenem - Nonsusceptible Bacteria in Animal Infection Models Relebactam restored activity of imipenem / cilastatin in animal models of infection ( e . g . , mouse disseminated infection , mouse thigh infection , and mouse pulmonary infection ) caused by imipenem - nonsusceptible KPC - producing Enterobacteriaceae and imipenem - nonsusceptible P . aeruginosa ( imipenem - nonsusceptible due to production of chromosomal PDC and loss of OprD porin ) .
Antimicrobial Activity RECARBRIO has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) and ( 1 . 2 ) ] .
Hospital - acquired Bacterial Pneumonia and Ventilator - associated Bacterial Pneumonia ( HABP / VABP ) • Aerobic Bacteria • Gram - negative Bacteria • Acinetobacter calcoaceticus - baumannii complex • Enterobacter cloacae • Escherichia coli • Haemophilus influenzae • Klebsiella aerogenes • Klebsiella oxytoca • Klebsiella pneumoniae • Pseudomonas aeruginosa • Serratia marcescens Complicated Urinary Tract Infections ( cUTI ) • Aerobic Bacteria • Gram - negative Bacteria • Klebsiella aerogenes • Enterobacter cloacae • Escherichia coli • Klebsiella pneumoniae • Pseudomonas aeruginosa Complicated Intra - abdominal Infections ( cIAI ) • Aerobic Bacteria • Gram - negative Bacteria • Citrobacter freundii • Klebsiella aerogenes • Enterobacter cloacae • Escherichia coli • Klebsiella oxytoca • Klebsiella pneumoniae • Pseudomonas aeruginosa • Anaerobic Bacteria • Gram - negative Bacteria • Bacteroides caccae • Bacteroides fragilis • Bacteroides ovatus • Bacteroides stercoris • Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron • Bacteroides uniformis • Bacteroides vulgatus • Fusobacterium nucleatum • Parabacteroides distasonis The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 % of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro MIC less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for RECARBRIO against isolates of similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of RECARBRIO in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
• Aerobic Bacteria • Gram - positive Bacteria • Enterococcus faecalis • Methicillin - susceptible Staphylococcus aureus • Streptococcus anginosus • Streptococcus constellatus • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Gram - negative Bacteria • Citrobacter koseri • Enterobacter asburiae • Anaerobic Bacteria • Gram - positive Bacteria • Eggerthella lenta • Parvimonas micra • Peptoniphilus harei • Peptostreptococcus anaerobius • Gram - negative Bacteria • Fusobacterium necrophorum • Fusobacterium varium • Parabacteroides goldsteinii • Parabacteroides merdae • Prevotella bivia • Veillonella parvula Susceptibility Test Methods For specific information regarding susceptibility testing methods , interpretive criteria , and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for RECARBRIO , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies with imipenem / cilastatin or relebactam have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Genotoxicity studies were performed in a variety of bacterial and mammalian tests in vivo and in vitro .
None of these tests showed any evidence of genetic damage .
The tests conducted with imipenem , cilastatin , or imipenem / cilastatin included : V79 mammalian cell mutagenesis assay ( imipenem , cilastatin ) , Ames test ( imipenem , cilastatin ) , unscheduled DNA synthesis assay ( imipenem / cilastatin ) , and in vivo mouse cytogenetics test ( imipenem / cilastatin ) .
The tests conducted with relebactam included : Ames test , in vitro chromosomal aberration in Chinese Hamsters Ovary ( CHO ) cells , and in vivo rat micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility No adverse effects on fertility , reproductive performance , fetal viability , growth or postnatal development were observed in male and female rats given imipenem / cilastatin at intravenous doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and at a subcutaneous dose of 320 mg / kg / day .
In rats , a dose of 320 mg / kg was approximately double the MRHD based on body surface area .
Slight decreases in live fetal body weight were restricted to the highest dosage level .
In fertility studies , relebactam was administered in intravenous doses of 50 , 150 , and 450 mg / kg / day to male rats beginning 15 days before mating , through mating , and for an additional 3 weeks and to female rats beginning 15 days before mating , through mating , and until gestation day ( GD ) 7 .
Relebactam did not impair fertility , reproductive performance or spermatogenesis in males or fertility , reproductive performance , or early embryonic development in females at doses up to 450 mg / kg / day corresponding to plasma AUC exposures of approximately 8 times in males and 7 times in females the plasma AUC exposure in humans at the MRHD .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Relebactam given as a single entity caused renal tubular degeneration in monkeys at AUC exposure 7 - fold the human AUC exposure at the MRHD .
Renal tubular degeneration was shown to be reversible after dose discontinuation .
There was no evidence of nephrotoxicity at AUC exposures less than or equal to 3 - fold the human AUC exposure at the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hospital - acquired Bacterial Pneumonia and Ventilator - associated Bacterial Pneumonia A total of 535 hospitalized adults with HABP / VABP were randomized and received trial medications in a multinational , double - blind trial ( Trial 1 , NCT02493764 ) comparing RECARBRIO 1 . 25 grams ( imipenem 500 mg / cilastatin 500 mg / relebactam 250 mg ) intravenously every 6 hours to piperacillin and tazobactam ( 4 . 5 grams ) for 7 to 14 days of therapy .
The modified intent - to - treat ( MITT ) population , which included all randomized patients who received at least one dose of trial treatment and did not have only gram - positive cocci on Gram stain of the baseline lower respiratory tract ( LRT ) specimen included 531 patients ; the mean age was 60 and 43 % were 65 years of age or older .
The majority of patients were men ( 69 % ) , white ( 78 % ) , and from Europe ( 61 % ) .
The mean APACHE II score was 15 and 47 % of the population had an APACHE II score of ≥ 15 .
At randomization , 66 % of patients were admitted to the ICU , 77 % had been in the hospital for ≥ 5 days , and 48 % had a creatinine clearance of < 90 mL / min .
Concurrent bacteremia was present at baseline in 5 . 8 % of patients .
Table 7 presents the incidence of all - cause mortality through Day 28 and clinical response at the early follow - up ( EFU ) visit ( 7 to 14 days after the end of therapy ) in the MITT population .
Overall results are presented along with subgroup results by pneumonia diagnosis .
Table 7 : Day 28 All - Cause Mortality and Clinical Response Rates at EFU from Trial 1 of Hospital - acquired Bacterial Pneumonia and Ventilator - associated Bacterial Pneumonia ( HABP / VABP ) ( MITT Population ) RECARBRIO Piperacillin / Tazobactam Treatment Difference n / m ( % ) n / m ( % ) % [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) null EFU = early follow up All - Cause Mortality Through Day 28 [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] 42 / 264 ( 15 . 9 ) 57 / 267 ( 21 . 3 ) - 5 . 3 ( - 11 . 9 , 1 . 2 ) Non - ventilated HABP 18 / 142 ( 12 . 7 ) 15 / 131 ( 11 . 5 ) 1 . 2 ( - 6 . 8 , 9 . 1 ) Ventilated HABP / VABP 24 / 122 ( 19 . 7 ) 42 / 136 ( 30 . 9 ) - 11 . 2 ( - 21 . 6 , - 0 . 5 ) Clinical Response at EFU [ 4 ] 161 / 264 ( 61 . 0 ) 149 / 267 ( 55 . 8 ) 5 . 0 ( - 3 . 2 , 13 . 2 ) Non - ventilated HABP 95 / 142 ( 66 . 9 ) 87 / 131 ( 66 . 4 ) 0 . 5 ( - 10 . 7 , 11 . 7 ) Ventilated HABP / VABP 66 / 122 ( 54 . 1 ) 62 / 136 ( 45 . 6 ) 8 . 5 ( - 3 . 7 , 20 . 5 ) [ 1 ] Treatment differences and 95 % confidence intervals are based on Miettinen & Nurminen method .
[ 2 ] n / m = number of subjects with survival status of death or unknown / number of modified intent - to - treat subjects .
[ 3 ] One subject in the RECARBRIO arm had unknown mortality status at Day 28 which was counted as a death .
[ 4 ] n / m = number of subjects with a favorable clinical response / number of modified intent - to - treat subjects .
In the MITT population , in patients with an APACHE II score < 15 , Day 28 all - cause mortality rates were 17 / 139 ( 12 . 2 % ) for RECARBRIO - treated patients and 12 / 140 ( 8 . 6 % ) for piperacillin / tazobactam - treated patients , clinical cure rates were 90 / 139 ( 64 . 7 % ) and 98 / 140 ( 70 % ) , respectively .
In patients with an APACHE II score ≥ 15 , Day 28 all - cause mortality rates were 25 / 125 ( 20 % ) for RECARBRIO - treated patients and 45 / 127 ( 35 . 4 % ) for piperacillin / tazobactam - treated patients , clinical cure rates were 71 / 125 ( 56 . 8 % ) and 51 / 127 ( 40 . 2 % ) , respectively .
Per pathogen favorable clinical response at EFU and Day 28 all - cause mortality were assessed in a microbiological modified intention to treat ( mMITT ) population , which consisted of all randomized MITT subjects who had at least one baseline LRT pathogen that was susceptible to both study treatments ( Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Day 28 All - Cause Mortality and Favorable Clinical Response at EFU by Baseline LRT Pathogen from Trial 1 of Hospital - acquired Bacterial Pneumonia and Ventilator - associated Bacterial Pneumonia ( HABP / VABP ) ( mMITT Population ) Baseline LRT Pathogen Day 28 All - Cause Mortality Clinical Response at EFU RECARBRIO n / m [ 1 ] ( % ) Piperacillin / Tazobactam n / m null ( % ) RECARBRIO n / m [ 2 ] ( % ) Piperacillin / Tazobactam n / m null ( % ) LRT = lower respiratory tract EFU = early follow - up Acinetobacter calcoaceticus - baumannii complex 0 / 5 [ 3 ] ( 0 . 0 ) 1 / 10 ( 10 . 0 ) 4 / 5 null ( 80 . 0 ) 6 / 10 ( 60 . 0 ) Enterobacter cloacae 1 / 7 null ( 14 . 3 ) 3 / 16 ( 18 . 8 ) 6 / 7 null ( 85 . 7 ) 12 / 16 ( 75 . 0 ) Escherichia coli 5 / 27 ( 18 . 5 ) 8 / 33 ( 24 . 2 ) 16 / 27 ( 59 . 3 ) 19 / 33 ( 57 . 6 ) Haemophilus influenzae [ 4 ] 2 / 13 ( 15 . 4 ) 3 / 12 ( 25 . 0 ) 9 / 13 ( 69 . 2 ) 8 / 12 ( 66 . 7 ) Klebsiella spp .
[ 5 ] 6 / 42 ( 14 . 3 ) 8 / 41 ( 19 . 5 ) 25 / 42 ( 59 . 5 ) 28 / 41 ( 68 . 3 ) Pseudomonas aeruginosa 7 / 26 ( 26 . 9 ) 5 / 35 ( 14 . 3 ) 12 / 26 ( 46 . 2 ) 20 / 35 ( 57 . 1 ) Serratia marcescens 2 / 10 ( 20 . 0 ) 1 / 4 ( 25 . 0 ) 7 / 10 ( 70 . 0 ) 3 / 4 ( 75 . 0 ) [ 1 ] n / m = the number of subjects with survival status of death or unknown within each category / the number of microbiological modified intent - to - treat subjects who have the corresponding baseline pathogen from LRT culture .
[ 2 ] n / m = the number of subjects with a favorable clinical response within each category / the number of microbiological modified intent - to - treat subjects who have the corresponding baseline pathogen from LRT culture .
[ 3 ] Supportive evidence was derived from the imipenem and cilastatin prescribing information .
[ 4 ] All H . influenzae isolates were susceptible to imipenem .
The susceptible MIC breakpoint for PIP / TAZ is ≤ 1 / 4 mcg / mL .
At the lowest concentration of PIP / TAZ tested ( 2 / 4 mcg / mL ) there was no visible growth .
[ 5 ] Includes Klebsiella aerogenes , Klebsiella oxytoca , Klebsiella pneumoniae .
14 . 2 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections , including Pyelonephritis and Complicated Intra - abdominal Infections The determination of efficacy and safety of RECARBRIO was supported in part by the previous findings of the efficacy and safety of imipenem / cilastatin for the treatment of cUTI and cIAI .
The contribution of relebactam to RECARBRIO was primarily established in vitro and in animal models of infection [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Imipenem / cilastatin plus relebactam was studied in cUTI including pyelonephritis ( Trial 2 , NCT01505634 ) and cIAI ( Trial 3 , NCT01506271 ) in randomized , blinded , active - controlled , multicenter trials .
These trials provided only limited efficacy and safety information .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING RECARBRIO ( imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam ) for injection , 1 . 25 grams is supplied as a white to light yellow sterile powder for constitution in a single - dose glass vial containing imipenem 500 mg ( equivalent to 530 mg imipenem monohydrate ) , cilastatin 500 mg ( equivalent to 531 mg cilastatin sodium ) , and relebactam 250 mg ( equivalent to 263 mg relebactam monohydrate ) .
The vials are supplied as a single - dose glass vial ( NDC 0006 - 3856 - 01 ) and in cartons containing 25 vials ( NDC 0006 - 3856 - 02 ) .
Store RECARBRIO vials at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep vials in the carton .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Serious Allergic Reactions Advise patients , their families , or caregivers that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions , could occur that require immediate treatment .
Ask them about any previous hypersensitivity reactions to RECARBRIO ( imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam ) , carbapenems , penicillins , cephalosporins , other beta lactams , or other allergens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Seizures and Central Nervous System Reactions Counsel patients , their families , or caregivers to inform a healthcare provider if they have central nervous system disorders , such as stroke or history of seizures .
Seizures have been reported during treatment with imipenem , a component of RECARBRIO , especially when recommended dosages were exceeded and with closely related antibacterial drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Interaction with Valproic Acid Counsel patients , their families , or caregivers to inform a healthcare provider if they are taking valproic acid or divalproex sodium .
If treatment with RECARBRIO is necessary , supplemental anti - convulsant medication to prevent and / or treat seizures may be needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Potentially Serious Diarrhea Advise patients , their families , or caregivers that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial drugs , including RECARBRIO and usually resolves when the drug is discontinued .
Sometimes , frequent watery or bloody diarrhea may occur and may be a sign of a more serious intestinal infection that may require treatment .
If severe watery or bloody diarrhea develops , tell the patient to contact his or her healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including RECARBRIO , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When RECARBRIO is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by RECARBRIO or other antibacterial drugs in the future [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC Rahway , NJ 07065 , USA For patent information : www . msd . com / research / patent Copyright © 2019 - 2022 Merck & Co . , Inc . , Rahway , NJ , USA , and its affiliates .
All rights reserved .
uspi - mk7655a - iv - 2205r003 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 25 g Vial Carton Label 25 single - dose vials NDC 0006 - 3856 - 02 Recarbrio ™ ( imipenem , cilastatin , and relebactam ) for Injection 1 . 25 g per vial * Must be constituted and further diluted .
See enclosed package insert for preparation instructions .
USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert .
Rx only For Intravenous Infusion Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
