Rx only DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine : ( 2 - dimethyl - aminoethyl 2 - methylbenzhydryl ether citrate ) .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol and has a molecular weight of 461 . 51 .
The molecular formula C18H23NO • C6H8O7 is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablet contains 100 mg orphenadrine citrate .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets also contain : calcium stearate , ethylcellulose and lactose monohydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets do not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets also possess anti - cholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS Orphenadrine citrate is indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculo skeletal conditions .
The mode of action of the drug has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets .
It is also not known whether orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions of orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are mainly due to the mild anti - cholinergic action of orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets have been chronically abused for their euphoric effects .
[ 1 ] The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
[ 2 ] OVERDOSAGE Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are toxic when overdosed and typically induces anti - cholinergic effects .
[ 3 ] In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
[ 4 ] Treatment for orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anti - cholinergic effects .
[ 5 ] DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults - Two tablets per day ; one in the morning and one in the evening .
HOW SUPPLIED Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets , 100 mg , white , round - shaped tablets debossed “ E ” over “ 22 ” on one side and plain on the other side and supplied as : NDC 63187 - 632 - 30 bottles of 30 NDC 63187 - 632 - 60 bottles of 60 NDC 63187 - 632 - 90 bottles of 90 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure as required .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 OS8870 Rev . 09 / 09 MF0022REV09 / 09 MG # 14534 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets , 100 mg x 100 Tablets - Label NDC 63187 - 632 - 30 Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets 100 mg Rx only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
