Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Camphor 5 . 3 % Cough suppressant / topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil 1 . 3 % Cough suppressant Menthol 2 . 8 % Cough suppressant / topical analgesic Uses temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold • cough to help you sleep • minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • chronic cough that lasts such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • do not heat , microwave , or add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns • do not take by mouth or place in nostrils • do not bandage tightly • avoid contact with eyes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• muscle aches and pains worsen , persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults and children 2 years of age and older • for cough , apply a thick layer on the throat and chest • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • for muscle aches and pains , apply to affected area • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients fragrance , glyceryl dibehenate , light mineral oil , octyldodecyl olivate , petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 g Container Carton NEW NDC 72854 - 352 - 01 Delsym ® NO MESS VAPOR ROLL - ON Cough Suppressant & Topical Analgesic COUGH RELIEF 100 % Natural Camphor , Eucalyptus Oil , Menthol Ointment Ages 2 + NET WT 1 . 76 OZ ( 50 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
