Active Ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic Uses Uses for the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain associated with sore mouth and throat Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Sore throat warning : if sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use Do not Use • if foil pouch has been previously opened • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • avoid contact with eyes Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidently swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Immediately Directions • do not exceed recommended dosage adults and children 2 years of age and older : use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of the product children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • store at 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients flavor , polyethylene goycol , sodium saccharin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 238 - 4582 M - F : 8 : 00 a . m . - 4 : 30 p . m . ET Principal Display Panel HurriCaine One 2 ct carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] HurriCaine One 25 ct carton [ MULTIMEDIA ]
