Drug Facts Active ingredient Purified water 98 . 3 % Purpose Eyewash Use For cleansing the eye to help relieve irritation or burning by removing loose foreign material Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you experience any open wounds in or near the eyes and obtain immediate medical treatment • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product • to avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface • do not reuse • once opened , discard Stop use and ask a doctor if you have any of the following • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists • eye pain • changes in vision Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • remove tamper evident seal and cap • replace with sterile eyecup provided • avoid contamination of rim and inside surfaces of the eyecup • place eyecup surface to the affected eye , pressing tightly to prevent the escape of the liquid and tilt the head backward • open eyelids wide and rotate eyeball while controlling the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle to ensure thorough bathing with the wash Other information • lot number is printed on the bottle • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C [ 68 ° to 77 ° F ] • for your protection , this bottle has an imprinted white seal with black printing " TAMPER EVIDENT SEAL " • do not use if this seal is missing or broken • use before expiration date marked on bottle Inactive ingredients boric acid , sodium borate , sodium chloride Questions ?
☎ Call 905 690 - 6277 9 a . m . to 5 p . m . EST Mon - Fri Manufactured by : Niagara Pharmaceuticals Inc .
60 Innovation Dr . Flamborough ON L9H 7P3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 946 mL Bottle Label Pur - Wash Purified Water , 98 . 3 % Ophthalmic Solution Eyewash Single Use Manufactured by : Niagara Pharmaceuticals Inc .
60 Innovation Dr . Flamborough ON L9H 7P3 Made in Canada Sterile Solution 32 Fl Oz [ 946 mL ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
