WARNING : RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH OPIOIDS ; ABUSE , MISUSE , AND ADDICTION ; and DEPENDENCE AND WITHDRAWAL REACTIONS • Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• The use of benzodiazepines , including Alprazolam , exposes users to risks of abuse , misuse , and addiction , which can lead to overdose or death .
Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications , alcohol , and / or illicit substances , which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes .
Before prescribing Alprazolam and throughout treatment , assess each patient ' s risk for abuse , misuse , and addiction ( see WARNINGS ) .
• The continued use of benzodiazepines , including Alprazolam , may lead to clinically significant physical dependence .
The risks of dependence and withdrawal increase with longer treatment duration and higher daily dose .
Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of Alprazolam after continued use may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions , which can be life - threatening .
To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions , use a gradual taper to discontinue Alprazolam or reduce the dosage ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and WARNINGS ) .
DESCRIPTION Alprazolam Tablets contain alprazolam which is a triazolo analog of the 1 , 4 benzodiazepine class of central nervous system - active compounds .
The chemical name of alprazolam is 8 - Chloro - 1 - methyl - 6 - phenyl - 4 H - s - triazolo [ 4 , 3 - α ] [ 1 , 4 ] benzodiazepine .
The structural formula is represented to the right : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alprazolam is a white crystalline powder , which is soluble in methanol or ethanol but which has no appreciable solubility in water at physiological pH . Each Alprazolam Tablet , for oral administration , contains 0 . 25 , 0 . 5 , 1 or 2 mg of alprazolam .
Alprazolam Tablets , 2 mg , are multi - scored and may be divided as shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive ingredients : Cellulose , corn starch , docusate sodium , lactose , magnesium stearate , silicon dioxide and sodium benzoate .
In addition , the 0 . 5 mg tablet contains FD & C Yellow No . 6 and the 1 mg tablet contains FD & C Blue No . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics CNS agents of the 1 , 4 benzodiazepine class presumably exert their effects by binding at stereo specific receptors at several sites within the central nervous system .
Their exact mechanism of action is unknown .
Clinically , all benzodiazepines cause a dose - related central nervous system depressant activity varying from mild impairment of task performance to hypnosis .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration , alprazolam is readily absorbed .
Peak concentrations in the plasma occur in 1 to 2 hours following administration .
Plasma levels are proportionate to the dose given ; over the dose range of 0 . 5 to 3 . 0 mg , peak levels of 8 . 0 to 37 ng / mL were observed .
Using a specific assay methodology , the mean plasma elimination half - life of alprazolam has been found to be about 11 . 2 hours ( range : 6 . 3 – 26 . 9 hours ) in healthy adults .
Distribution In vitro , alprazolam is bound ( 80 percent ) to human serum protein .
Serum albumin accounts for the majority of the binding .
Metabolism / Elimination Alprazolam is extensively metabolized in humans , primarily by cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , to two major metabolites in the plasma : 4 - hydroxyalprazolam and α - hydroxyalprazolam .
A benzophenone derived from alprazolam is also found in humans .
Their half - lives appear to be similar to that of alprazolam .
The plasma concentrations of 4 - hydroxyalprazolam and α - hydroxyalprazolam relative to unchanged alprazolam concentration were always less than 4 % .
The reported relative potencies in benzodiazepine receptor binding experiments and in animal models of induced seizure inhibition are 0 . 20 and 0 . 66 , respectively , for 4 - hydroxyalprazolam and α - hydroxyalprazolam .
Such low concentrations and the lesser potencies of 4 - hydroxyalprazolam and α - hydroxyalprazolam suggest that they are unlikely to contribute much to the pharmacological effects of alprazolam .
The benzophenone metabolite is essentially inactive .
Alprazolam and its metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine .
Special Populations Changes in the absorption , distribution , metabolism and excretion of benzodiazepines have been reported in a variety of disease states including alcoholism , impaired hepatic function and impaired renal function .
Changes have also been demonstrated in geriatric patients .
A mean half - life of alprazolam of 16 . 3 hours has been observed in healthy elderly subjects ( range : 9 . 0 – 26 . 9 hours , n = 16 ) compared to 11 . 0 hours ( range : 6 . 3 – 15 . 8 hours , n = 16 ) in healthy adult subjects .
In patients with alcoholic liver disease the half - life of alprazolam ranged between 5 . 8 and 65 . 3 hours ( mean : 19 . 7 hours , n = 17 ) as compared to between 6 . 3 and 26 . 9 hours ( mean = 11 . 4 hours , n = 17 ) in healthy subjects .
In an obese group of subjects the half - life of alprazolam ranged between 9 . 9 and 40 . 4 hours ( mean = 21 . 8 hours , n = 12 ) as compared to between 6 . 3 and 15 . 8 hours ( mean = 10 . 6 hours , n = 12 ) in healthy subjects .
Because of its similarity to other benzodiazepines , it is assumed that alprazolam undergoes transplacental passage and that it is excreted in human milk .
Race Maximal concentrations and half - life of alprazolam are approximately 15 % and 25 % higher in Asians compared to Caucasians .
Pediatrics The pharmacokinetics of alprazolam in pediatric patients have not been studied .
Gender Gender has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of alprazolam .
Cigarette Smoking Alprazolam concentrations may be reduced by up to 50 % in smokers compared to non - smokers .
Drug - Drug Interactions Alprazolam is primarily eliminated by metabolism via cytochrome P450 3 A ( CYP3A ) .
Most of the interactions that have been documented with alprazolam are with drugs that inhibit or induce CYP3A4 .
Compounds that are potent inhibitors of CYP3A would be expected to increase plasma alprazolam concentrations .
Drug products that have been studied in vivo , along with their effect on increasing alprazolam AUC , are as follows : ketoconazole , 3 . 98 fold ; itraconazole , 2 . 70 fold ; nefazodone , 1 . 98 fold ; fluvoxamine , 1 . 96 fold ; and erythromycin , 1 . 61 fold ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
CYP3A inducers would be expected to decrease alprazolam concentrations and this has been observed in vivo .
The oral clearance of alprazolam ( given in a 0 . 8 mg single dose ) was increased from 0 . 90 ± 0 . 21 mL / min / kg to 2 . 13 ± 0 . 54 mL / min / kg and the elimination t1 / 2 was shortened ( from 17 . 1 ± 4 . 9 h to 7 . 7 ± 1 . 7 h ) following administration of 300 mg / day carbamazepine for 10 days ( see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
However , the carbamazepine dose used in this study was fairly low compared to the recommended doses ( 1000 – 1200 mg / day ) ; the effect at usual carbamazepine doses is unknown .
The ability of alprazolam to induce human hepatic enzyme systems has not yet been determined .
However , this is not a property of benzodiazepines in general .
Further , alprazolam did not affect the prothrombin or plasma warfarin levels in male volunteers administered sodium warfarin orally .
CLINICAL STUDIES Anxiety Disorders Alprazolam Tablets were compared to placebo in double blind clinical studies ( doses up to 4 mg / day ) in patients with a diagnosis of anxiety or anxiety with associated depressive symptomatology .
Alprazolam was significantly better than placebo at each of the evaluation periods of these 4 - week studies as judged by the following psychometric instruments : Physician ' s Global Impressions , Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale , Target Symptoms , Patient ' s Global Impressions and Self - Rating Symptom Scale .
Panic Disorder Support for the effectiveness of Alprazolam in the treatment of panic disorder came from three short - term , placebo - controlled studies ( up to 10 weeks ) in patients with diagnoses closely corresponding to DSM - III - R criteria for panic disorder .
The average dose of Alprazolam was 5 – 6 mg / day in two of the studies , and the doses of Alprazolam were fixed at 2 and 6 mg / day in the third study .
In all three studies , Alprazolam was superior to placebo on a variable defined as " the number of patients with zero panic attacks " ( range , 37 – 83 % met this criterion ) , as well as on a global improvement score .
In two of the three studies , Alprazolam was superior to placebo on a variable defined as " change from baseline on the number of panic attacks per week " ( range , 3 . 3 – 5 . 2 ) , and also on a phobia rating scale .
A subgroup of patients who were improved on Alprazolam during short - term treatment in one of these trials was continued on an open basis up to 8 months , without apparent loss of benefit .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anxiety Disorders Alprazolam Tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorder ( a condition corresponding most closely to the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual [ DSM - III - R ] diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder ) or the short - term relief of symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
Generalized anxiety disorder is characterized by unrealistic or excessive anxiety and worry ( apprehensive expectation ) about two or more life circumstances , for a period of 6 months or longer , during which the person has been bothered more days than not by these concerns .
At least 6 of the following 18 symptoms are often present in these patients : Motor Tension ( trembling , twitching , or feeling shaky ; muscle tension , aches , or soreness ; restlessness ; easy fatigability ) ; Autonomic Hyperactivity ( shortness of breath or smothering sensations ; palpitations or accelerated heart rate ; sweating , or cold clammy hands ; dry mouth ; dizziness or light - headedness ; nausea , diarrhea , or other abdominal distress ; flushes or chills ; frequent urination ; trouble swallowing or ' lump in throat ' ) ; Vigilance and Scanning ( feeling keyed up or on edge ; exaggerated startle response ; difficulty concentrating or ' mind going blank ' because of anxiety ; trouble falling or staying asleep ; irritability ) .
These symptoms must not be secondary to another psychiatric disorder or caused by some organic factor .
Anxiety associated with depression is responsive to alprazolam .
Panic Disorder Alprazolam is also indicated for the treatment of panic disorder , with or without agoraphobia .
Studies supporting this claim were conducted in patients whose diagnoses corresponded closely to the DSM - III - R / IV criteria for panic disorder ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Panic disorder ( DSM - IV ) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks , i . e . , a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which four ( or more ) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes : ( 1 ) palpitations , pounding heart , or accelerated heart rate ; ( 2 ) sweating ; ( 3 ) trembling or shaking ; ( 4 ) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering ; ( 5 ) feeling of choking ; ( 6 ) chest pain or discomfort ; ( 7 ) nausea or abdominal distress ; ( 8 ) feeling dizzy , unsteady , lightheaded , or faint ; ( 9 ) derealization ( feelings of unreality ) or depersonalization ( being detached from oneself ) ; ( 10 ) fear of losing control ; ( 11 ) fear of dying ; ( 12 ) paresthesias ( numbness or tingling sensations ) ; ( 13 ) chills or hot flushes .
Demonstrations of the effectiveness of Alprazolam by systematic clinical study are limited to 4 months duration for anxiety disorder and 4 to 10 weeks duration for panic disorder ; however , patients with panic disorder have been treated on an open basis for up to 8 months without apparent loss of benefit .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to this drug or other benzodiazepines .
Alprazolam is contraindicated with ketoconazole and itraconazole , since these medications significantly impair the oxidative metabolism mediated by cytochrome P450 3 A ( CYP3A ) ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines , including alprazolam , and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioids alone .
If a decision is made to prescribe alprazolam concomitantly with opioids , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use , and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic , prescribe a lower initial dose of alprazolam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response .
If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking alprazolam , prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when alprazolam is used with opioids .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Abuse , Misuse , and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines , including alprazolam , exposes users to the risks of abuse , misuse , and addiction , which can lead to overdose or death .
Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often ( but not always ) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications , alcohol , and / or illicit substances , which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes , including respiratory depression , overdose , or death ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Abuse ) .
Before prescribing Alprazolam and throughout treatment , assess each patient ' s risk for abuse , misuse , and addiction ( e . g . , using a standardized screening tool ) .
Use of Alprazolam , particularly in patients at elevated risk , necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of Alprazolam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse , misuse , and addiction .
Prescribe the lowest effective dosage ; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse , misuse , and addiction ( e . g . , opioid analgesics , stimulants ) ; and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug .
If a substance use disorder is suspected , evaluate the patient and institute ( or refer them for ) early treatment , as appropriate .
Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions , use a gradual taper to discontinue Alprazolam or reduce the dosage ( a patient - specific plan should be used to taper the dose ) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam .
Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages , and those who have had longer durations of use .
Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines , including Alprazolam , may lead to clinically significant physical dependence .
Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of Alprazolam after continued use , or administration of flumazenil ( a benzodiazepine antagonist ) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions , which can be life - threatening ( e . g . , seizures ) ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Dependence ) .
Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases , benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Dependence ) .
Certain adverse clinical events , some life - threatening , are a direct consequence of physical dependence to Alprazolam .
These include a spectrum of withdrawal symptoms ; the most important is seizure ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Even after relatively short - term use at the doses recommended for the treatment of transient anxiety and anxiety disorder ( i . e . , 0 . 75 to 4 . 0 mg per day ) , there is some risk of dependence .
Spontaneous reporting system data suggest that the risk of dependence and its severity appear to be greater in patients treated with doses greater than 4 mg / day and for long periods ( more than 12 weeks ) .
However , in a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients , the duration of treatment ( 3 months compared to 6 months ) had no effect on the ability of patients to taper to zero dose .
In contrast , patients treated with doses of Alprazolam greater than 4 mg / day had more difficulty tapering to zero dose than those treated with less than 4 mg / day .
The importance of dose and the risks of Alprazolam as a treatment for panic disorder Because the management of panic disorder often requires the use of average daily doses of Alprazolam above 4 mg , the risk of dependence among panic disorder patients may be higher than that among those treated for less severe anxiety .
Experience in randomized placebo - controlled discontinuation studies of patients with panic disorder showed a high rate of rebound and withdrawal symptoms in patients treated with Alprazolam compared to placebo - treated patients .
Relapse or return of illness was defined as a return of symptoms characteristic of panic disorder ( primarily panic attacks ) to levels approximately equal to those seen at baseline before active treatment was initiated .
Rebound refers to a return of symptoms of panic disorder to a level substantially greater in frequency , or more severe in intensity than seen at baseline .
Withdrawal symptoms were identified as those which were generally not characteristic of panic disorder and which occurred for the first time more frequently during discontinuation than at baseline .
In a controlled clinical trial in which 63 patients were randomized to Alprazolam and where withdrawal symptoms were specifically sought , the following were identified as symptoms of withdrawal : heightened sensory perception , impaired concentration , dysosmia , clouded sensorium , paresthesias , muscle cramps , muscle twitch , diarrhea , blurred vision , appetite decrease , and weight loss .
Other symptoms , such as anxiety and insomnia , were frequently seen during discontinuation , but it could not be determined if they were due to return of illness , rebound , or withdrawal .
In two controlled trials of 6 to 8 weeks duration where the ability of patients to discontinue medication was measured , 71 % – 93 % of patients treated with Alprazolam tapered completely off therapy compared to 89 % – 96 % of placebo - treated patients .
In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients , the duration of treatment ( 3 months compared to 6 months ) had no effect on the ability of patients to taper to zero dose .
Seizures attributable to Alprazolam were seen after drug discontinuance or dose reduction in 8 of 1980 patients with panic disorder or in patients participating in clinical trials where doses of Alprazolam greater than 4 mg / day for over 3 months were permitted .
Five of these cases clearly occurred during abrupt dose reduction , or discontinuation from daily doses of 2 to 10 mg .
Three cases occurred in situations where there was not a clear relationship to abrupt dose reduction or discontinuation .
In one instance , seizure occurred after discontinuation from a single dose of 1 mg after tapering at a rate of 1 mg every 3 days from 6 mg daily .
In two other instances , the relationship to taper is indeterminate ; in both of these cases the patients had been receiving doses of 3 mg daily prior to seizure .
The duration of use in the above 8 cases ranged from 4 to 22 weeks .
There have been occasional voluntary reports of patients developing seizures while apparently tapering gradually from Alprazolam .
The risk of seizure seems to be greatest 24 – 72 hours after discontinuation ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam ) .
Status Epilepticus and its Treatment The medical event voluntary reporting system shows that withdrawal seizures have been reported in association with the discontinuation of Alprazolam .
In most cases , only a single seizure was reported ; however , multiple seizures and status epilepticus were reported as well .
Interdose Symptoms Early morning anxiety and emergence of anxiety symptoms between doses of Alprazolam have been reported in patients with panic disorder taking prescribed maintenance doses of alprazolam .
These symptoms may reflect the development of tolerance or a time interval between doses which is longer than the duration of clinical action of the administered dose .
In either case , it is presumed that the prescribed dose is not sufficient to maintain plasma levels above those needed to prevent relapse , rebound or withdrawal symptoms over the entire course of the interdosing interval .
In these situations , it is recommended that the same total daily dose be given divided as more frequent administrations ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CNS Depression and Impaired Performance Because of its CNS depressant effects , patients receiving alprazolam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations or activities requiring complete mental alertness such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
For the same reason , patients should be cautioned about the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS depressant drugs during treatment with alprazolam .
Risk of Fetal Harm Benzodiazepines can potentially cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
If alprazolam is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Because of experience with other members of the benzodiazepine class , alprazolam is assumed to be capable of causing an increased risk of congenital abnormalities when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during the first trimester should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Alprazolam Interaction with Drugs that Inhibit Metabolism via Cytochrome P4503A The initial step in alprazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3 A ( CYP3A ) .
Drugs that inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam .
Consequently , alprazolam should be avoided in patients receiving very potent inhibitors of CYP3A .
With drugs inhibiting CYP3A to a lesser but still significant degree , alprazolam should be used only with caution and consideration of appropriate dosage reduction .
For some drugs , an interaction with alprazolam has been quantified with clinical data ; for other drugs , interactions are predicted from in vitro data and / or experience with similar drugs in the same pharmacologic class .
The following are examples of drugs known to inhibit the metabolism of alprazolam and / or related benzodiazepines , presumably through inhibition of CYP3A .
Potent CYP3A Inhibitors Azole antifungal agents Ketoconazole and itraconazole are potent CYP3A inhibitors and have been shown in vivo to increase plasma alprazolam concentrations 3 . 98 fold and 2 . 70 fold , respectively .
The coadministration of alprazolam with these agents is not recommended .
Other azole - type antifungal agents should also be considered potent CYP3A inhibitors and the coadministration of alprazolam with them is not recommended ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drugs demonstrated to be CYP 3 A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving alprazolam ( caution and consideration of appropriate alprazolam dose reduction are recommended during coadministration with the following drugs ) Nefazodone Coadministration of nefazodone increased alprazolam concentration two - fold .
Fluvoxamine Coadministration of fluvoxamine approximately doubled the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam , decreased clearance by 49 % , increased half - life by 71 % , and decreased measured psychomotor performance .
Cimetidine Coadministration of cimetidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 86 % , decreased clearance by 42 % , and increased half - life by 16 % .
Other drugs possibly affecting alprazolam metabolism Other drugs possibly affecting alprazolam metabolism by inhibition of CYP3A are discussed in the PRECAUTIONS section ( see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Suicide As with other psychotropic medications , the usual precautions with respect to administration of the drug and size of the prescription are indicated for severely depressed patients or those in whom there is reason to expect concealed suicidal ideation or plans .
Panic disorder has been associated with primary and secondary major depressive disorders and increased reports of suicide among untreated patients .
Mania Episodes of hypomania and mania have been reported in association with the use of alprazolam in patients with depression .
Uricosuric Effect Alprazolam has a weak uricosuric effect .
Although other medications with weak uricosuric effect have been reported to cause acute renal failure , there have been no reported instances of acute renal failure attributable to therapy with alprazolam .
Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness It is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective dose to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation which may be a particular problem in elderly or debilitated patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal , hepatic or pulmonary function should be observed .
There have been rare reports of death in patients with severe pulmonary disease shortly after the initiation of treatment with alprazolam .
A decreased systemic alprazolam elimination rate ( e . g . , increased plasma half - life ) has been observed in both alcoholic liver disease patients and obese patients receiving alprazolam ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Information for Patients Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of potentially fatal respiratory depression and sedation when alprazolam is used with opioids and not to use such drugs concomitantly unless supervised by a health care provider .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Abuse , Misuse , and Addiction Inform patients that the use of Alprazolam , even at recommended dosages , exposes users to risks of abuse , misuse , and addiction , which can lead to overdose and death , especially when used in combination with other medications ( e . g . , opioid analgesics ) , alcohol , and / or illicit substances .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of benzodiazepine abuse , misuse , and addiction ; to seek medical help if they develop these signs and / or symptoms ; and on the proper disposal of unused drug ( see WARNINGS – Abuse , Misuse , and Addiction and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Withdrawal Reactions Inform patients that the continued use of Alprazolam may lead to clinically significant physical dependence and that abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of Alprazolam may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions , which can be life - threatening .
Inform patients that in some cases , patients taking benzodiazepines have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months .
Instruct patients that discontinuation or dosage reduction of Alprazolam may require a slow taper ( see WARNINGS – Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Inform your physician about any alcohol consumption and medicine you are taking now , including medication you may buy without a prescription .
Alcohol should generally not be used during treatment with benzodiazepines .
Not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Therefore , inform your physician if you are pregnant , if you are planning to have a child , or if you become pregnant while you are taking this medication .
Inform your physician if you are nursing .
Until you experience how this medication affects you , do not drive a car or operate potentially dangerous machinery , etc .
Laboratory Tests Laboratory tests are not ordinarily required in otherwise healthy patients .
However , when treatment is protracted , periodic blood counts , urinalysis , and blood chemistry analyses are advisable in keeping with good medical practice .
Drug Interactions Use with Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration .
Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors .
When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined , the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid - related respiratory depression exists .
Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids , and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation .
Use with Other CNS Depressants If Alprazolam Tablets are to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed , particularly with compounds which might potentiate the action of benzodiazepines .
The benzodiazepines , including alprazolam , produce additive CNS depressant effects when co - administered with other psychotropic medications , anticonvulsants , antihistaminics , ethanol and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression .
Use with Imipramine and Desipramine The steady state plasma concentrations of imipramine and desipramine have been reported to be increased an average of 31 % and 20 % , respectively , by the concomitant administration of Alprazolam Tablets in doses up to 4 mg / day .
The clinical significance of these changes is unknown .
Drugs that inhibit alprazolam metabolism via cytochrome P450 3 A The initial step in alprazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3 A ( CYP3A ) .
Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS for additional drugs of this type ) .
Drugs demonstrated to be CYP3A inhibitors of possible clinical significance on the basis of clinical studies involving alprazolam ( caution is recommended during coadministration with alprazolam ) Fluoxetine Coadministration of fluoxetine with alprazolam increased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 46 % , decreased clearance by 21 % , increased half - life by 17 % , and decreased measured psychomotor performance .
Propoxyphene Coadministration of propoxyphene decreased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 6 % , decreased clearance by 38 % , and increased half - life by 58 % .
Oral Contraceptives Coadministration of oral contraceptives increased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 18 % , decreased clearance by 22 % , and increased half - life by 29 % .
Drugs and other substances demonstrated to be CYP 3 A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving benzodiazepines metabolized similarly to alprazolam or on the basis of in vitro studies with alprazolam or other benzodiazepines ( caution is recommended during coadministration with alprazolam ) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than alprazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with alprazolam for the following : diltiazem , isoniazid , macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and clarithromycin , and grapefruit juice .
Data from in vitro studies of alprazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with alprazolam for the following : sertraline and paroxetine .
However , data from an in vivo drug interaction study involving a single dose of alprazolam 1 mg and steady state dose of sertraline ( 50 to 150 mg / day ) did not reveal any clinically significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of alprazolam .
Data from in vitro studies of benzodiazepines other than alprazolam suggest a possible drug interaction for the following : ergotamine , cyclosporine , amiodarone , nicardipine , and nifedipine .
Caution is recommended during the coadministration of any of these with alprazolam ( see WARNINGS ) .
Drugs demonstrated to be inducers of CYP3A Carbamazepine can increase alprazolam metabolism and therefore can decrease plasma levels of alprazolam .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Although interactions between benzodiazepines and commonly employed clinical laboratory tests have occasionally been reported , there is no consistent pattern for a specific drug or specific test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed during 2 - year bioassay studies of alprazolam in rats at doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( 150 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 10 mg / day ) and in mice at doses up to 10 mg / kg / day ( 50 times the maximum recommended daily human dose ) .
Alprazolam was not mutagenic in the rat micronucleus test at doses up to 100 mg / kg , which is 500 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 10 mg / day .
Alprazolam also was not mutagenic in vitro in the DNA Damage / Alkaline Elution Assay or the Ames Assay .
Alprazolam produced no impairment of fertility in rats at doses up to 5 mg / kg / day , which is 25 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 10 mg / day .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category D ( See WARNINGS section ) .
Nonteratogenic Effects It should be considered that the child born of a mother who is receiving benzodiazepines may be at some risk for withdrawal symptoms from the drug during the postnatal period .
Also , neonatal flaccidity and respiratory problems have been reported in children born of mothers who have been receiving benzodiazepines .
Labor and Delivery Alprazolam has no established use in labor or delivery .
Nursing Mothers Benzodiazepines are known to be excreted in human milk .
It should be assumed that alprazolam is as well .
Chronic administration of diazepam to nursing mothers has been reported to cause their infants to become lethargic and to lose weight .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken by mothers who must use alprazolam .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Alprazolam in individuals below 18 years of age have not been established .
Geriatric Use The elderly may be more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines .
They exhibit higher plasma alprazolam concentrations due to reduced clearance of the drug as compared with a younger population receiving the same doses .
The smallest effective dose of alprazolam should be used in the elderly to preclude the development of ataxia and oversedation ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects to Alprazolam Tablets , if they occur , are generally observed at the beginning of therapy and usually disappear upon continued medication .
In the usual patient , the most frequent side effects are likely to be an extension of the pharmacological activity of alprazolam , e . g . , drowsiness or light - headedness .
The data cited in the two tables below are estimates of untoward clinical event incidence among patients who participated under the following clinical conditions : relatively short duration ( i . e . , four weeks ) placebo - controlled clinical studies with dosages up to 4 mg / day of alprazolam ( for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety ) and short - term ( up to ten weeks ) placebo - controlled clinical studies with dosages up to 10 mg / day of alprazolam in patients with panic disorder , with or without agoraphobia .
These data cannot be used to predict precisely the incidence of untoward events in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics , and other factors often differ from those in clinical trials .
These figures cannot be compared with those obtained from other clinical studies involving related drug products and placebo as each group of drug trials are conducted under a different set of conditions .
Comparison of the cited figures , however , can provide the prescriber with some basis for estimating the relative contributions of drug and non - drug factors to the untoward event incidence in the population studied .
Even this use must be approached cautiously , as a drug may relieve a symptom in one patient but induce it in others .
( For example , an anxiolytic drug may relieve dry mouth [ a symptom of anxiety ] in some subjects but induce it [ an untoward event ] in others . )
Additionally , for anxiety disorders the cited figures can provide the prescriber with an indication as to the frequency with which physician intervention ( e . g . , increased surveillance , decreased dosage or discontinuation of drug therapy ) may be necessary because of the untoward clinical event .
Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events Reported in Placebo - Controlled Trials of Anxiety Disorders ANXIETY DISORDERS Treatment - Emergent Symptom Incidence [ 1 ] Incidence of Intervention Because of Symptom ALPRAZOLAM PLACEBO ALPRAZOLAM Number of Patients % of Patients Reporting : 565 505 565 Central Nervous System Drowsiness 41 . 0 21 . 6 15 . 1 Light - headedness 20 . 8 19 . 3 1 . 2 Depression 13 . 9 18 . 1 2 . 4 Headache 12 . 9 19 . 6 1 . 1 Confusion 9 . 9 10 . 0 0 . 9 Insomnia 8 . 9 18 . 4 1 . 3 Nervousness 4 . 1 10 . 3 1 . 1 Syncope 3 . 1 4 . 0 [ 2 ] Dizziness 1 . 8 0 . 8 2 . 5 Akathisia 1 . 6 1 . 2 null Tiredness / Sleepiness null null 1 . 8 Gastrointestinal Dry Mouth 14 . 7 13 . 3 0 . 7 Constipation 10 . 4 11 . 4 0 . 9 Diarrhea 10 . 1 10 . 3 1 . 2 Nausea / Vomiting 9 . 6 12 . 8 1 . 7 Increased Salivation 4 . 2 2 . 4 null Cardiovascular Tachycardia / Palpitations 7 . 7 15 . 6 0 . 4 Hypotension 4 . 7 2 . 2 null Sensory Blurred Vision 6 . 2 6 . 2 0 . 4 Musculoskeletal Rigidity 4 . 2 5 . 3 null Tremor 4 . 0 8 . 8 0 . 4 Cutaneous Dermatitis / Allergy 3 . 8 3 . 1 0 . 6 Other Nasal Congestion 7 . 3 9 . 3 null Weight Gain 2 . 7 2 . 7 null Weight Loss 2 . 3 3 . 0 null [ 1 ] Events reported by 1 % or more of alprazolam patients are included .
[ 2 ] None reported In addition to the relatively common ( i . e . , greater than 1 % ) untoward events enumerated in the table above , the following adverse events have been reported in association with the use of benzodiazepines : dystonia , irritability , concentration difficulties , anorexia , transient amnesia or memory impairment , loss of coordination , fatigue , seizures , sedation , slurred speech , jaundice , musculoskeletal weakness , pruritus , diplopia , dysarthria , changes in libido , menstrual irregularities , incontinence and urinary retention .
Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events Reported in Placebo - Controlled Trials of Panic Disorder PANIC DISORDER Treatment - Emergent Symptom Incidence [ 1 ] ALPRAZOLAM PLACEBO Number of Patients % of Patients Reporting : 1388 1231 Central Nervous System Drowsiness 76 . 8 42 . 7 Fatigue and Tiredness 48 . 6 42 . 3 Impaired Coordination 40 . 1 17 . 9 Irritability 33 . 1 30 . 1 Memory Impairment 33 . 1 22 . 1 Light - headedness / Dizziness 29 . 8 36 . 9 Insomnia 29 . 4 41 . 8 Headache 29 . 2 35 . 6 Cognitive Disorder 28 . 8 20 . 5 Dysarthria 23 . 3 6 . 3 Anxiety 16 . 6 24 . 9 Abnormal Involuntary Movement 14 . 8 21 . 0 Decreased Libido 14 . 4 8 . 0 Depression 13 . 8 14 . 0 Confusional State 10 . 4 8 . 2 Muscular Twitching 7 . 9 11 . 8 Increased Libido 7 . 7 4 . 1 Change in Libido ( Not Specified ) 7 . 1 5 . 6 Weakness 7 . 1 8 . 4 Muscle Tone Disorders 6 . 3 7 . 5 Syncope 3 . 8 4 . 8 Akathisia 3 . 0 4 . 3 Agitation 2 . 9 2 . 6 Disinhibition 2 . 7 1 . 5 Paresthesia 2 . 4 3 . 2 Talkativeness 2 . 2 1 . 0 Vasomotor Disturbances 2 . 0 2 . 6 Derealization 1 . 9 1 . 2 Dream Abnormalities 1 . 8 1 . 5 Fear 1 . 4 1 . 0 Feeling Warm 1 . 3 0 . 5 Gastrointestinal Decreased Salivation 32 . 8 34 . 2 Constipation 26 . 2 15 . 4 Nausea / Vomiting 22 . 0 31 . 8 Diarrhea 20 . 6 22 . 8 Abdominal Distress 18 . 3 21 . 5 Increased Salivation 5 . 6 4 . 4 Cardio - Respiratory Nasal Congestion 17 . 4 16 . 5 Tachycardia 15 . 4 26 . 8 Chest Pain 10 . 6 18 . 1 Hyperventilation 9 . 7 14 . 5 Upper Respiratory Infection 4 . 3 3 . 7 Sensory Blurred Vision 21 . 0 21 . 4 Tinnitus 6 . 6 10 . 4 Musculoskeletal Muscular Cramps 2 . 4 2 . 4 Muscle Stiffness 2 . 2 3 . 3 Cutaneous Sweating 15 . 1 23 . 5 Rash 10 . 8 8 . 1 Other Increased Appetite 32 . 7 22 . 8 Decreased Appetite 27 . 8 24 . 1 Weight Gain 27 . 2 17 . 9 Weight Loss 22 . 6 16 . 5 Micturition Difficulties 12 . 2 8 . 6 Menstrual Disorders 10 . 4 8 . 7 Sexual Dysfunction 7 . 4 3 . 7 Edema 4 . 9 5 . 6 Incontinence 1 . 5 0 . 6 Infection 1 . 3 1 . 7 [ 1 ] Events reported by 1 % or more of alprazolam patients are included .
In addition to the relatively common ( i . e . , greater than 1 % ) untoward events enumerated in the table above , the following adverse events have been reported in association with the use of alprazolam : seizures , hallucinations , depersonalization , taste alterations , diplopia , elevated bilirubin , elevated hepatic enzymes , and jaundice .
Panic disorder has been associated with primary and secondary major depressive disorders and increased reports of suicide among untreated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Adverse Events Reported as Reasons for Discontinuation in Treatment of Panic Disorder in Placebo - Controlled Trials In a larger database comprised of both controlled and uncontrolled studies in which 641 patients received alprazolam , discontinuation - emergent symptoms which occurred at a rate of over 5 % in patients treated with alprazolam and at a greater rate than the placebo treated group were as follows : DISCONTINUATION - EMERGENT SYMPTOM INCIDENCEPercentage of 641 Alprazolam - Treated Panic Disorder Patients Reporting Events Body System / Event Neurologic Gastrointestinal Insomnia 29 . 5 Nausea / Vomiting 16 . 5 Light - headedness 19 . 3 Diarrhea 13 . 6 Abnormal involuntary movement 17 . 3 Decreased salivation 10 . 6 Headache 17 . 0 Metabolic - Nutritional Muscular twitching 6 . 9 Weight loss 13 . 3 Impaired coordination 6 . 6 Decreased appetite 12 . 8 Muscle tone disorders 5 . 9 Weakness 5 . 8 Dermatological Psychiatric Sweating 14 . 4 Anxiety 19 . 2 Fatigue and Tiredness 18 . 4 Cardiovascular Irritability 10 . 5 Tachycardia 12 . 2 Cognitive disorder 10 . 3 Memory impairment 5 . 5 Special Senses Depression 5 . 1 Blurred vision 10 . 0 Confusional state 5 . 0 From the studies cited , it has not been determined whether these symptoms are clearly related to the dose and duration of therapy with alprazolam in patients with panic disorder .
There have also been reports of withdrawal seizures upon rapid decrease or abrupt discontinuation of Alprazolam Tablets ( see WARNINGS ) .
To discontinue treatment in patients taking alprazolam , the dosage should be reduced slowly in keeping with good medical practice .
It is suggested that the daily dosage of alprazolam be decreased by no more than 0 . 5 mg every three days ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Some patients may benefit from an even slower dosage reduction .
In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients which compared this recommended taper schedule with a slower taper schedule , no difference was observed between the groups in the proportion of patients who tapered to zero dose ; however , the slower schedule was associated with a reduction in symptoms associated with a withdrawal syndrome .
As with all benzodiazepines , paradoxical reactions such as stimulation , increased muscle spasticity , sleep disturbances , hallucinations and other adverse behavioral effects such as agitation , rage , irritability , and aggressive or hostile behavior have been reported rarely .
In many of the spontaneous case reports of adverse behavioral effects , patients were receiving other CNS drugs concomitantly and / or were described as having underlying psychiatric conditions .
Should any of the above events occur , alprazolam should be discontinued .
Isolated published reports involving small numbers of patients have suggested that patients who have borderline personality disorder , a prior history of violent or aggressive behavior , or alcohol or substance abuse may be at risk for such events .
Instances of irritability , hostility , and intrusive thoughts have been reported during discontinuation of alprazolam in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder .
Post Introduction Reports Various adverse drug reactions have been reported in association with the use of alprazolam since market introduction .
The majority of these reactions were reported through the medical event voluntary reporting system .
Because of the spontaneous nature of the reporting of medical events and the lack of controls , a causal relationship to the use of alprazolam cannot be readily determined .
Reported events include : gastrointestinal disorder , hypomania , mania , liver enzyme elevations , hepatitis , hepatic failure , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , angioedema , peripheral edema , hyperprolactinemia , gynecomastia , and galactorrhea ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Alprazolam contains alprazolam , a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Abuse Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine and a CNS depressant with a potential for abuse and addiction .
Abuse is the intentional , non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , for its desirable psychological or physiological effects .
Misuse is the intentional use , for therapeutic purposes , of a drug by an individual in a way other than prescribed by a health care provider or for whom it was not prescribed .
Drug addiction is a cluster of behavioral , cognitive , and physiological phenomena that may include a strong desire to take the drug , difficulties in controlling drug use ( e . g . , continuing drug use despite harmful consequences , giving a higher priority to drug use than other activities and obligations ) , and possible tolerance or physical dependence .
Even taking benzodiazepines as prescribed may put patients at risk for abuse and misuse of their medication .
Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines may lead to addiction .
Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often ( but not always ) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications , alcohol , and / or illicit substances , which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes , including respiratory depression , overdose , or death .
Benzodiazepines are often sought by individuals who abuse drugs and other substances , and by individuals with addictive disorders ( see WARNINGS - Abuse , Misuse , and Addiction ) .
The following adverse reactions have occurred with benzodiazepine abuse and / or misuse : abdominal pain , amnesia , anorexia , anxiety , aggression , ataxia , blurred vision , confusion , depression , disinhibition , disorientation , dizziness , euphoria , impaired concentration and memory , indigestion , irritability , muscle pain , slurred speech , tremors , and vertigo .
The following severe adverse reactions have occurred with benzodiazepine abuse and / or misuse : delirium , paranoia , suicidal ideation and behavior , seizures , coma , breathing difficulty , and death .
Death is more often associated with polysubstance use ( especially benzodiazepines with other CNS depressants such as opioids and alcohol ) .
Dependence Physical Dependence Alprazolam may produce physical dependence from continued therapy .
Physical dependence is a state that develops as a result of physiological adaptation in response to repeated drug use , manifested by withdrawal signs and symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of a drug .
Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of benzodiazepines or administration of flumazenil , a benzodiazepine antagonist , may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions , including seizures , which can be life - threatening .
Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages ( i . e . , higher and / or more frequent doses ) and those who have had longer durations of use ( see WARNINGS - Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions ) .
To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions , use a gradual taper to discontinue Alprazolam or reduce the dosage ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam and WARNINGS - Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions ) .
Acute Withdrawal Signs and Symptoms Acute withdrawal signs and symptoms associated with benzodiazepines have included : ( abnormal involuntary movements , anxiety , blurred vision , depersonalization , depression , derealization , dizziness , fatigue , gastrointestinal adverse reactions ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , weight loss , decreased appetite ) , headache , hyperacusis , hypertension , irritability , insomnia , memory impairment , muscle pain and stiffness , panic attacks , photophobia , restlessness , tachycardia , and tremor .
More severe acute withdrawal signs and symptoms , including life - threatening reactions , have included catatonia , convulsions , delirium tremens , depression , hallucinations , mania , psychosis , seizures and suicidality .
Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome Protracted withdrawal syndrome associated with benzodiazepines is characterized by anxiety , cognitive impairment , depression , insomnia , formication , motor symptoms ( e . g . , weakness , tremor , muscle twitches ) , paresthesia , and tinnitus that persists beyond 4 to 6 weeks after initial benzodiazepine withdrawal .
Protracted withdrawal symptoms may last weeks to more than 12 months .
As a result , there may be difficulty in differentiating withdrawal symptoms from potential re - emergence or continuation of symptoms for which the benzodiazepine was being used .
Tolerance Tolerance to Alprazolam may develop from continued therapy .
Tolerance is a physiological state characterized by a reduced response to a drug after repeated administration ( i . e . , a higher dose of a drug is required to produce the same effect that was once obtained at a lower dose ) .
Tolerance to the therapeutic effect of Alprazolam may develop ; however , little tolerance develops to the amnestic reactions and other cognitive impairments caused by benzodiazepines .
OVERDOSAGE Clinical Experience Manifestations of alprazolam overdosage include somnolence , confusion , impaired coordination , diminished reflexes and coma .
Death has been reported in association with overdoses of alprazolam by itself , as it has with other benzodiazepines .
In addition , fatalities have been reported in patients who have overdosed with a combination of a single benzodiazepine , including alprazolam , and alcohol ; alcohol levels seen in some of these patients have been lower than those usually associated with alcohol - induced fatality .
The acute oral LD50 in rats is 331 – 2171 mg / kg .
Other experiments in animals have indicated that cardiopulmonary collapse can occur following massive intravenous doses of alprazolam ( over 195 mg / kg ; 975 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 10 mg / day ) .
Animals could be resuscitated with positive mechanical ventilation and the intravenous infusion of norepinephrine bitartrate .
Animal experiments have suggested that forced diuresis or hemodialysis are probably of little value in treating overdosage .
General Treatment of Overdose Overdosage reports with Alprazolam Tablets are limited .
As in all cases of drug overdosage , respiration , pulse rate , and blood pressure should be monitored .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with immediate gastric lavage .
Intravenous fluids should be administered and an adequate airway maintained .
If hypotension occurs , it may be combated by the use of vasopressors .
Dialysis is of limited value .
As with the management of intentional overdosing with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for re - sedation , respiratory depression , and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect .
While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients , there will be some who require doses greater than 4 mg / day .
In such cases , dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects .
Anxiety Disorders and Transient Symptoms of Anxiety Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg given three times daily .
The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect , at intervals of 3 to 4 days , to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg , given in divided doses .
The lowest possible effective dose should be employed and the need for continued treatment reassessed frequently .
The risk of dependence may increase with dose and duration of treatment .
In all patients , dosage should be reduced gradually when discontinuing therapy or when decreasing the daily dosage .
Although there are no systematically collected data to support a specific discontinuation schedule , it is suggested that the daily dosage be decreased by no more than 0 . 5 mg every 3 days .
Some patients may require an even slower dosage reduction .
Panic Disorder The successful treatment of many panic disorder patients has required the use of alprazolam at doses greater than 4 mg daily .
In controlled trials conducted to establish the efficacy of alprazolam in panic disorder , doses in the range of 1 to 10 mg daily were used .
The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily .
Among the approximately 1700 patients participating in the panic disorder development program , about 300 received alprazolam in dosages of greater than 7 mg / day , including approximately 100 patients who received maximum dosages of greater than 9 mg / day .
Occasional patients required as much as 10 mg a day to achieve a successful response .
Dose Titration Treatment may be initiated with a dose of 0 . 5 mg three times daily .
Depending on the response , the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day .
Slower titration to the dose levels greater than 4 mg / day may be advisable to allow full expression of the pharmacodynamic effect of alprazolam .
To lessen the possibility of interdose symptoms , the times of administration should be distributed as evenly as possible throughout the waking hours , that is , on a three or four times per day schedule .
Generally , therapy should be initiated at a low dose to minimize the risk of adverse responses in patients especially sensitive to the drug .
Dose should be advanced until an acceptable therapeutic response ( i . e . , a substantial reduction in or total elimination of panic attacks ) is achieved , intolerance occurs , or the maximum recommended dose is attained .
Dose Maintenance For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg / day , periodic reassessment and consideration of dosage reduction is advised .
In a controlled postmarketing dose - response study , patients treated with doses of alprazolam greater than 4 mg / day for 3 months were able to taper to 50 % of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit .
Because of the danger of withdrawal , abrupt discontinuation of treatment should be avoided .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE . )
The necessary duration of treatment for panic disorder patients responding to alprazolam is unknown .
After a period of extended freedom from attacks , a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted , but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and / or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena .
Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions , use a gradual taper to discontinue Alprazolam or reduce the dosage .
If a patient develops withdrawal reactions , consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level .
Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly ( see WARNINGS - Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Dependence ) .
In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients which compared this recommended taper schedule with a slower taper schedule , no difference was observed between the groups in the proportion of patients who tapered to zero dose ; however , the slower schedule was associated with a reduction in symptoms associated with a withdrawal syndrome .
Reduced the dosage by no more than 0 . 5 mg every 3 days .
Some patients may benefit from an even more gradual discontinuation .
Some patients may prove resistant to all discontinuation regimens .
Dosing in Special Populations In elderly patients , in patients with advanced liver disease or in patients with debilitating disease , the usual starting dose is 0 . 25 mg , given two or three times daily .
This may be gradually increased if needed and tolerated .
The elderly may be especially sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines .
If side effects occur at the recommended starting dose , the dose may be lowered .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 4950 NDC : 50090 - 4950 - 0 30 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 4950 - 1 20 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 4950 - 2 60 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 4950 - 3 90 TABLET in a BOTTLE ANIMAL STUDIES When rats were treated with alprazolam at 3 , 10 , and 30 mg / kg / day ( 15 to 150 times the maximum recommended human dose ) orally for 2 years , a tendency for a dose related increase in the number of cataracts was observed in females and a tendency for a dose related increase in corneal vascularization was observed in males .
These lesions did not appear until after 11 months of treatment .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . greenstonellc . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0005 - 10 . 0 Revised February 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] MEDICATION GUIDE ALPRAZOLAM Tablets , C - IV What is the most important information I should know about alprazolam ?
• Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine medicine .
Taking benzodiazepines with opioid medicines , alcohol , or other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma and death .
• Get emergency help right away if any of the following happens : • shallow or slowed breathing • breathing stops ( which may lead to the heart stopping ) • excessive sleepiness ( sedation ) Do not drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how taking Alprazolam with opioids affects you .
• Risk of abuse , misuse , and addiction .
There is a risk of abuse , misuse , and addiction with benzodiazepines , including Alprazolam , which can lead to overdose and serious side effects including coma and death .
• Serious side effects including coma and death have happened in people who have abused or misused benzodiazepines , including Alprazolam .
These serious side effects may also include delirium , paranoia , suicidal thoughts or actions , seizures , and difficulty breathing .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you get any of these serious side effects .
• You can develop an addiction even if you take Alprazolam as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Take Alprazolam exactly as your healthcare provider prescribed .
• Do not share your Alprazolam with other people .
• Keep Alprazolam in a safe place and away from children .
• Physical dependence and withdrawal reactions .
Alprazolam can cause physical dependence and withdrawal reactions .
• Do not suddenly stop taking ALPRAZOLAM .
Stopping Alprazolam suddenly can cause serious and life - threatening side effects , including , unusual movements , responses , or expressions , seizures , sudden and severe mental or nervous system changes , depression , seeing or hearing things that others do not see or hear , an extreme increase in activity or talking , losing touch with reality , and suicidal thoughts or actions .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you get any of these symptoms .
• Some people who suddenly stop benzodiazepines , have symptoms that can last for several weeks to more than 12 months , including , anxiety , trouble remembering , learning , or concentrating , depression , problems sleeping , feeling like insects are crawling under your skin , weakness , shaking , muscle twitching , burning or prickling feeling in your hands , arms , legs or feet , and ringing in your ears .
• Physical dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical dependence and drug addiction .
• Do not take more Alprazolam than prescribed or take Alprazolam for longer than prescribed .
What is alprazolam ?
• Alprazolam is a prescription medicine used : • to treat anxiety disorders • for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety • to treat panic disorder with or without a fear of places and situations that might cause panic , helplessness , or embarrassment ( agoraphobia ) • Alprazolam is a federal controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it contains alprazolam that can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep alprazolam in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away alprazolam may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
• It is not known if alprazolam is safe and effective in children .
• Elderly patients are especially susceptible to dose related adverse effects when taking alprazolam .
• It is not known if alprazolam is safe and effective when used to treat anxiety disorder for longer than 4 months .
• It is not known if alprazolam is safe and effective when used to treat panic disorder for longer than 10 weeks .
Do not take alprazolam if : • you are allergic to alprazolam , other benzodiazepines , or any of the ingredients in alprazolam .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in alprazolam .
• you are taking antifungal medicines including ketoconazole and itraconazole Before you take alprazolam , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • have liver or kidney problems • have lung disease or breathing problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Alprazolam may harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take alprazolam while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Alprazolam passes into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take alprazolam .
You should not breastfeed while taking alprazolam .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking alprazolam with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well alprazolam or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
How should I take alprazolam ?
• See " What is the most important information I should know about alprazolam ? "
• Take alprazolam exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much alprazolam to take and when to take it .
• If you take too much alprazolam , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of alprazolam ?
Alprazolam may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about alprazolam ? "
• Seizures .
Stopping alprazolam can cause seizures and seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
• Mania .
Alprazolam may cause an increase in activity and talking ( hypomania and mania ) in people who have depression .
• Alprazolam can make you sleepy or dizzy and can slow your thinking and motor skills .
Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how Alprazolam affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking Alprazolam without first talking to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , Alprazolam may make your sleepiness or dizziness much worse .
The most common side effects of alprazolam include drowsiness and light - headedness .
These are not all the possible side effects of alprazolam .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store alprazolam ?
• Store alprazolam at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F 20 ° C to 25 ° C • Keep alprazolam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of alprazolam .
• Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
• Do not use alprazolam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
• Do not give alprazolam to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
• You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about alprazolam that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in alprazolam ?
Active ingredient : alprazolam Inactive ingredients : Cellulose , corn starch , docusate sodium , lactose , magnesium stearate , silicon dioxide and sodium benzoate .
In addition , the 0 . 5 mg tablet contains FD & C Yellow No . 6 and the 1 mg tablet contains FD & C Blue No . 2 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . greenstonellc . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0822 - 2 . 0 Revised February 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] alprazolam [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
