[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only DESCRIPTION ERGOCALCIFEROL CAPSULES , USP , is a synthetic calcium regulator for oral administration .
Ergocalciferol is a white , colorless crystal , insoluble in water , soluble in organic solvents , and slightly soluble in vegetable oils .
It is affected by air and by light .
Ergosterol or provitamin D 2 is found in plants and yeast and has no antirachitic activity .
There are more than 10 substances belonging to a group of steroid compounds , classified as having vitamin D or antirachitic activity .
One USP Unit of vitamin D 2 is equivalent to one International Unit ( IU ) , and 1 mcg of vitamin D 2 is equal to 40 IU .
Each softgel , for oral administration , contains Ergocalciferol , USP 1 , 250 mcg ( equivalent to 50 , 000 USP units of Vitamin D ) , in an edible vegetable oil .
Ergocalciferol , also called vitamin D 2 , is 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraen - 3 - ol , ( 3 β , 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E ) - ; ( C 28 H 44 O ) with a molecular weight of 396 . 65 , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Refined soybean oil , gelatin , glycerin , purified water , D & C Yellow # 10 , and FD & C Blue # 1 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The in vivo synthesis of the major biologically active metabolites of vitamin D occurs in two steps .
The first hydroxylation of ergocalciferol takes place in the liver ( to 25 - hydroxyvitamin D ) and the second in the kidneys ( to 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D ) .
Vitamin D metabolites promote the active absorption of calcium and phosphorous by the small intestine , thus elevating serum calcium and phosphate levels sufficiently to permit bone mineralization .
Vitamin D metabolites also mobilize calcium and phosphate from bone and probably increase the reabsorption of calcium and perhaps also of phosphate by the renal tubules .
There is a time lag of 10 to 24 hours between the administration of vitamin D and the initiation of its action in the body due to the necessity of synthesis of the active metabolites in the liver and kidneys .
Parathyroid hormone is responsible for the regulation of this metabolism in the kidneys .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ergocalciferol is indicated for use in the treatment of hypoparathyroidism , refractory rickets , also known as vitamin D resistant rickets , and familial hypophosphatemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ergocalciferol is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia , malabsorption syndrome , abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D , and hypervitaminosis D . WARNINGS Hypersensitivity to vitamin D may be one etiologic factor in infants with idiopathic hypercalcemia .
In these cases vitamin D must be strictly restricted .
Keep out of the reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General Vitamin D administration from fortified foods , dietary supplements , self - administered and prescription drug sources should be evaluated .
Therapeutic dosage should be readjusted as soon as there is clinical improvement .
Dosage levels must be individualized and great care exercised to prevent serious toxic effects .
IN VITAMIN D RESISTANT RICKETS THE RANGE BETWEEN THERAPEUTIC AND TOXIC DOSES IS NARROW .
When high therapeutic doses are used progress should be followed with frequent blood calcium determinations .
In the treatment of hypoparathyroidism , intravenous calcium , parathyroid hormone , and / or dihydrotachysterol may be required .
Maintenance of a normal serum phosphorous level by dietary phosphate restriction and / or administration of aluminum gels as intestinal phosphate binders in those patients with hyperphosphatemia as frequently seen in renal osteodystrophy is essential to prevent metastatis calcification .
Adequate dietary calcium is necessary for clinical response to vitamin D therapy .
Protect from light .
Drug Interactions Mineral oil interferes with the absorption of fat - soluble vitamins , including vitamin D preparations .
Administration of thiazide diuretics to hypoparathyroid patients who are concurrently being treated with ergocalciferol may cause hypercalcemia .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the drug ' s potential in these areas .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have shown fetal abnormalities in several species associated with hypervitaminosis D .
These are similar to the supravalvular aortic stenosis syndrome described in infants by Black in England ( 1963 ) .
This syndrome was characterized by supravalvular aortic stenosis , elfin facies , and mental retardation .
For the protection of the fetus , therefore , the use of vitamin D in excess of the recommended dietary allowance during normal pregnancy should be avoided unless , in the judgment of the physician , potential benefits in a specific , unique case outweigh the significant hazards involved .
The safety in excess of 400 USP units of vitamin D daily during pregnancy has not been established .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when ergocalciferol is administered to a nursing woman .
In a mother given large doses of vitamin D , 25 - hydroxycholecalciferol appeared in the milk and caused hypercalcemia in her child .
Monitoring of the infant ' s serum calcium concentration is required in that case ( Goldberg , 1972 ) .
Pediatric Use Pediatric doses must be individualized ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Ergocalciferol capsules , USP did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
A few published reports have suggested that the absorption of orally administered vitamin D may be attenuated in elderly compared to younger individuals .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system : Renal : Impairment of renal function with polyuria , nocturia , polydipsia , hypercalciuria , reversible azotemia , hypertension , nephrocalcinosis , generalized vascular calcification , or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death .
CNS : Mental retardation .
Soft Tissues : Widespread calcification of the soft tissues , including the heart , blood vessels , renal tubules , and lungs .
Skeletal : Bone demineralization ( osteoporosis ) in adults occurs concomitantly .
Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children ( dwarfism ) , vague aches , stiffness , and weakness .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , anorexia , constipation .
Metabolic : Mild acidosis , anemia , weight loss .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bionpharma Inc . at 1 - 888 - 235 - 2466 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The effects of administered vitamin D can persist for two or more months after cessation of treatment .
Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by : • Hypercalcemia with anorexia , nausea , weakness , weight loss , vague aches and stiffness , constipation , mental retardation , anemia , and mild acidosis .
• Impairment of renal function with polyuria , nocturia , polydipsia , hypercalciuria , reversible azotemia , hypertension , nephrocalcinosis , generalized vascular calcification , or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death .
• Widespread calcification of the soft tissues , including the heart , blood vessels , renal tubules , and lungs .
Bone demineralization ( osteoporosis ) in adults occurs concomitantly .
• Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children ( dwarfism ) .
The treatment of hypervitaminosis D with hypercalcemia consists in immediate withdrawal of the vitamin , a low calcium diet , generous intake of fluids , along with symptomatic and supportive treatment .
Hypercalcemic crisis with dehydration , stupor , coma , and azotemia requires more vigorous treatment .
The first step should be hydration of the patient .
Intravenous saline may quickly and significantly increase urinary calcium excretion .
A loop diuretic ( furosemide or ethacrynic acid ) may be given with the saline infusion to further increase renal calcium excretion .
Other reported therapeutic measures include dialysis or the administration of citrates , sulfates , phosphates , corticosteroids , EDTA ( ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid ) , and mithramycin via appropriate regimens .
With appropriate therapy , recovery is the usual outcome when no permanent damage has occurred .
Deaths via renal or cardiovascular failure have been reported .
The LD 50 in animals is unknown .
The toxic oral dose of ergocalciferol in the dog is 4 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE RANGE BETWEEN THERAPEUTIC AND TOXIC DOSES IS NARROW .
Vitamin D Resistant Rickets : 12 , 000 to 500 , 000 USP units daily .
Hypoparathyroidism : 50 , 000 to 200 , 000 USP units daily concomitantly with calcium lactate 4 g , six times per day .
DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED UNDER CLOSE MEDICAL SUPERVISION .
Calcium intake should be adequate .
Blood calcium and phosphorous determinations must be made every 2 weeks or more frequently if necessary .
X - rays of the bones should be taken every month until condition is corrected and stabilized .
HOW SUPPLIED Each green , oval softgel is imprinted with PA140 and contains 1 , 250 mcg ( 50 , 000 USP units vitamin D ) of ergocalciferol , USP , and is available in bottles of 100 ( NDC : 63629 - 2447 - 1 ) Softgels .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Ergocalciferol 1250 mcg Capsule , # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
