Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 11 . 7 % , Octisalate 4 . 5 % , Octocrylene 4 . 5 % , Oxybenzone 5 . 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin when using this product Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions ■ apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from the excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , propylene glycol , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , styrene / acrylates copolymer , benzyl alcohol , tocopherol , triethanolamine , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , oleth - 3 , polyamide - 8 , chlorphenesin , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , disodium EDTA This product is not bein compared to Banana Boat SPORT with Powerstay Technology Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + for any other purposes nore is this product manufactured or distributed by Edgewell Personal Care , Distributor of Banana Boat .
* May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , Inc . , St . Louis , Mo 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 www . mymountainfalls . com principal display panel mountain falls Compare to Banana Boat paraben free SPF 50 water resistant 80 minutes non - greasy active sport sunscreen lotion BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 Made in the USA with US and foreign parts 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
