1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including metoprolol .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( eg , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Limitation of Use Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension .
If the fixed combination represents the dose titrated to the individual patient ’ s needs , therapy with the fixed combination may be more convenient than with the separate components .
Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are the combination tablet of metoprolol tartrate , a beta adrenoceptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , a thiazide diuretic , indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Usual dose range : Hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 to 25 mg and metoprolol tartrate 100 mg dosed once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Titrate doses of individual components before switching to metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Administer metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with or immediately following meals .
Hydrochlorothiazide is usually given at a dosage of 12 . 5 mg to 50 mg per day .
The usual initial dosage of metoprolol is 100 mg daily in single or divided doses .
Dosage may be increased gradually until optimum blood pressure control is achieved .
Once daily dosing may not maintain the full effect for the entire dosing period , particularly at lower doses .
In such patients , consider administration in divided doses .
Dosing regimens that exceed 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide per day are not recommended .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are supplied as capsule - shaped tablets in the following strengths : 50 mg / 25 mg : Yellow , debossed with ‘ S ’ and ‘ 370 ’ on either side of breakline on one side and plain on other side 100 mg / 25 mg : Pink , debossed with ‘ S ’ and ‘ 368 ’ on either side of breakline on one side and plain on other side 100 mg / 50 mg : Yellow , debossed with ‘ S ’ and ‘ 369 ’ on either side of breakline on one side and plain on other side Tablets ( metoprolol tartrate / hydrochlorothiazide ) : 50 mg / 25 mg ; 100 mg / 25 mg ; 100 mg / 50 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure .
• Sinus bradycardia , sick sinus syndrome , and greater than first - degree block unless a permanent pacemaker is in place .
• Anuria • Hypersensitivity to metoprolol tartrate or hydrochlorothiazide or to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
• Hypersensitivity to metoprolol tartrate or hydrochlorothiazide or other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure .
( 4 ) • Sinus bradycardia , sick sinus syndrome , and greater than first - degree block unless a permanent pacemaker is in place .
( 4 ) • Anuria .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Abrupt cessation may exacerbate myocardial ischemia .
( 5 . 1 ) • May worsen congestive heart failure .
( 5 . 2 ) • Bronchospasm : Avoid beta - blockers .
( 5 . 3 ) • Bradycardia .
( 5 . 4 ) • Avoid discontinuing therapy prior to major surgery .
( 5 . 5 ) • May mask symptoms of hypoglycemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • Monitor serum electrolytes and creatinine periodically .
( 5 . 7 ) • Peripheral vascular disease : Can aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency .
( 5 . 9 ) • Pheochromocytoma : First initiate therapy with an alpha blocker .
( 5 . 10 ) • Abrupt withdrawal in thyrotoxicosis might precipitate a thyroid storm .
( 5 . 11 ) • Patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
( 5 . 12 ) 5 . 1 Abrupt Cessation of Therapy Following abrupt cessation of therapy with beta adrenergic blockers , exacerbations of angina pectoris and myocardial infarction may occur .
When discontinuing chronically administered metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , gradually reduce the dosage over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and monitor the patient .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary ischemia develops , promptly resume therapy and take measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina .
Warn patients not to interrupt therapy without their physician ’ s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , avoid abruptly discontinuing metoprolol tartrate in patients treated only for hypertension .
5 . 2 Heart Failure Worsening cardiac failure may occur during up - titration of beta - blockers .
If such symptoms occur , increase diuretics and restore clinical stability before advancing the dose of metoprolol .
It may be necessary to lower the dose of metoprolol tartrate or temporarily discontinue it .
Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of metoprolol tartrate .
5 . 3 Bronchospastic Disease Beta adrenergic blockers can cause bronchospasm .
Patients with bronchospastic diseases should , in general , not receive beta - blockers .
Because of its relative beta1 cardio - selectivity , however , metoprolol tartrate may be used in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Because beta1 - selectivity is not absolute , use the lowest possible dose of metoprolol tartrate and have bronchodilators ( e . g . , beta2 - agonists ) readily available or administered concomitantly .
5 . 4 Bradycardia Bradycardia , including sinus pause , heart block , and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Patients with first - degree atrioventricular block , sinus node dysfunction , conduction disorders ( including Wolff - Parkinson - White ) or on concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] that cause bradycardia may be at increased risk .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
If severe bradycardia develops , reduce or stop metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
5 . 5 Major Surgery Avoid initiation of high - dose regimen of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with cardiovascular risk factors undergoing non - cardiac surgery , since use in such patients has been associated with bradycardia , hypotension , stroke and death .
Chronically administered beta adrenergic blockers should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Masked Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Beta - blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
5 . 7 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia and hyponatremia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically .
Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hydrochlorothiazide reduces clearance of uric acid and may cause or exacerbate hyperuricemia and precipitate gout in susceptible patients .
Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium .
Monitor calcium levels .
5 . 8 Renal Impairment Patients with chronic kidney disease , severe heart failure , or volume depletion may be at increased risk for developing acute renal failure on drugs containing hydrochlorothiazide , including metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
5 . 9 Peripheral Vascular Disease Beta - blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
5 . 10 Pheochromocytoma If metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are used in the setting of pheochromocytoma , it should be given in combination with an alpha blocker , and only after the alpha blocker has been initiated .
Administration of beta - blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure due to the attenuation of beta - mediated vasodilatation in skeletal muscle .
5 . 11 Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs of hyperthyroidism , such as tachycardia .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade may precipitate a thyroid storm .
5 . 12 Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge and may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat an allergic reaction .
5 . 13 Acute Myopia and Second Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma ( idiosyncratic reactions ) .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of hydrochlorothiazide initiation .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
Given that metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contains hydrochlorothiazide , if these symptoms occur , discontinue metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Consider prompt medical or surgical treatment if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
5 . 14 Exacerbation of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydrochlorothiazide can exacerbate or activate systemic lupus erythematosus .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail elsewhere in the label ; • Worsening angina or myocardial infarction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] • Worsening heart failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] • Worsening AV block [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience : adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Metoprolol Confusional state , an increase in blood triglycerides and a decrease in High Density Lipoprotein ( HDL ) .
Very rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice and non - specific hepatic dysfunction .
Isolated cases of transaminase , alkaline phosphatase , and lactic dehydrogenase elevations have also been reported .
Hydrochlorothiazide Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic ) , sialadenitis , vomiting , diarrhea , cramping , nausea , gastric irritation , constipation , anorexia .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic hypotension ( may be potentiated by alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics ) .
Neurologic : Vertigo , dizziness , transient blurred vision , headache , paresthesia , xanthopsia , weakness , restlessness .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Necrotizing angiitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , purpura , urticaria , rash , photosensitivity .
Other beta - adrenergic agent reactions A variety of adverse reactions have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse reactions to metoprolol tartrate .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; visual disturbances ; hallucinations ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , emotional lability , clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Laryngospasm and respiratory distress .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , MAO inhibitors ) : Hypotension , bradycardia .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP2D6 inhibitors : Increased metoprolol concentration .
( 12 . 3 ) • Digitalis glycosides , clonidine , diltiazem and verapamil : Bradycardia .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • Clonidine : Rebound hypertension following clonidine withdrawal .
( 7 . 1 ) • Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment may be required .
( 7 . 2 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides .
( 7 . 2 ) • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity .
( 7 . 2 ) • Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Reduced diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of diuretics .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drug Interactions with Metoprolol Catecholamine Depleting Drugs : The concomitant use of catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ) with beta adrenergic blockers may have an additive affect and increase the risk of hypotension or bradycardia CYP2D6 Inhibitors : Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine , and propafenone were shown to double metoprolol concentrations .
While there is no information about moderate or weak inhibitors , these too are likely to increase metoprolol concentration .
Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients closely when the combination cannot be avoided .
Digitalis , Clonidine , and Calcium Channel Blockers : Digitalis glycosides , clonidine , diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use with beta blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia .
If clonidine and a beta blocker , such as metoprolol are coadministered , withdraw the beta - blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta - blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
If replacing clonidine by beta - blocker therapy , delay the introduction of beta - blockers for several days after clonidine administration has stopped .
7 . 2 Drug Interactions with Hydrochlorothiazide Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) : Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Ion exchange resins : Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins ( e . g . , cholestyramine and colestipol resins ) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 hours to 6 hours after the administration of resins to minimize the interaction .
Lithium : Diuretics reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concurrent use .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs : NSAIDs can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic Impairment : Consider initiating metoprolol tartrate therapy at low doses and gradually increase dosage to optimize therapy , while monitoring closely for adverse events .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Untreated hypertension during pregnancy can lead to adverse outcomes for the mother and the fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Available data from published observational studies have not demonstrated a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with metoprolol use during pregnancy .
However , there are inconsistent reports of intrauterine growth restriction , preterm birth , and perinatal mortality with maternal use of beta blockers , including metoprolol , during pregnancy ( see Data ) .
There have been rare reports of jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and electrolyte imbalances in infants exposed to thiazide medications during pregnancy .
In animal reproduction studies , metoprolol has been shown to increase post - implantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at oral dosages up to 24 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient .
The combination of metoprolol tartrate / hydrochlorothiazide administered to rats from mid - late gestation through lactation also produced increased post - implantation loss and decreased neonatal survival ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical consideration Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Metoprolol Metoprolol crosses the placenta .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving metoprolol during pregnancy , may be at risk for hypotension , hypoglycemia , bradycardia , and respiratory depression .
Observe neonates for symptoms of hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia and respiratory depression and manage accordingly .
Data Human Data Data from published observational studies did not demonstrate an association of major congenital malformations and use of either metoprolol or hydrochlorothiazide in pregnancy .
The published literature has reported inconsistent findings of intrauterine growth retardation , preterm birth and perinatal mortality with maternal use of metoprolol during pregnancy ; however , these studies have methodological limitations hindering interpretation .
Methodological limitations include retrospective design , concomitant use of other medications , and other unadjusted confounders that may account for the study findings including the underlying disease in the mother .
These observational studies cannot definitely establish or exclude any drug - associated risk during pregnancy .
Animal Data Oral administration of metoprolol tartrate / hydrochlorothiazide combinations to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses up to 200 / 50 mg / kg / day ( 10 times and 20 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis for metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide , respectively ) or to pregnant rabbits at doses up to 25 / 6 . 25 mg / kg / day ( about 2 . 5 times and 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis for metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide , respectively ) produced no teratogenic effects .
A 200 / 50 mg / kg / day metoprolol tartrate / hydrochlorothiazide combination administered to rats from mid - late gestation through lactation produced increased post - implantation loss and decreased neonatal survival .
Metoprolol Metoprolol has been shown to increase post - implantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at doses up to 24 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 - kg patient .
Distribution studies in mice confirm exposure of the fetus when metoprolol tartrate is administered to the pregnant animal .
These studies have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or teratogenicity .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide administered to pregnant mice and rats during organogenesis at doses up to 3 , 000 and 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 600 times and 400 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively , produced no harm to the fetus .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in the cord blood .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , data are available on the individual components of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide .
Available data from published literature on metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide report that each drug is present in human milk ( see Data ) .
There are no reports of adverse effects on breastfed infants exposed to metoprolol or hydrochlorothiazide during lactation .
Doses of hydrochlorothiazide associated with clinically significant diuresis have been associated with impaired milk production .
There is no information regarding the effects of metoprolol on milk production .
Monitor infants exposed to metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide though breastmilk for drowsiness or poor feeding ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor the breastfed infant for bradycardia or somnolence .
Data Metoprolol Based on published case reports , the estimated daily infant dose of metoprolol received from breastmilk ranged from 0 . 05 mg to less than 1 mg .
The estimated relative infant dosage was 0 . 5 % to 2 % of the mother ’ s weight - adjusted dosage .
In two women who were taking unspecified amount of metoprolol , milk samples were taken after one dose of metoprolol .
The estimated amount of metoprolol and alpha - hydroxymetoprolol in breast milk is reported to be less than 2 % of the mother ' s weight - adjusted dosage .
In a small study , breast milk was collected every 2 hours to 3 hours over one dosage interval , in three mothers ( at least 3 months postpartum ) who took metoprolol of unspecified amount .
The average amount of metoprolol present in breast milk was 71 . 5 mcg / day ( range 17 . 0 to 158 . 7 ) .
The average relative infant dosage was 0 . 5 % of the mother ' s weight - adjusted dosage .
Hydrochlorothiazide A single study involving one woman and her infant showed a peak concentration of 275 mcg / L at 3 hours following 50 mg dose .
No drug was detected ( < 20 mcg / L ) in the infant ’ s plasma at 2 hours and 11 hours following mother ’ s dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Males Based on the published literature , beta blockers ( including metoprolol ) may cause erectile dysfunction and inhibit sperm motility .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to metoprolol or hydrochlorothiazide was observed in rats [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Hydrochlorothiazide is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms The most frequently observed signs expected with overdosage of a beta adrenergic blocker are bradycardia and bradyarrhythmia , hypotension , heart failure , cardiac conduction disturbances and bronchospasm , atrioventricular block , hypoxia , impairment of consciousness / coma , cardiogenic shock , nausea and vomiting .
With thiazide diuretics , acute intoxication is rare .
The most prominent feature of overdose is acute loss of fluid , electrolytes and magnesium .
Signs and symptoms of overdose may include hypotension , dizziness , muscle cramps , renal impairment or failure , and sedation / impairment of consciousness .
Altered laboratory findings can also occur ( e . g . hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremia , alkalosis , increased BUN ) .
10 . 2 Management Care should be provided at a facility that can provide appropriate supporting measures , monitoring and supervision as treatment is symptomatic and supportive and there is no specific antidote .
Limited data suggest that neither metoprolol nor hydrochlorothiazide is dialyzable .
If justified , gastric lavage and / or activated charcoal can be administered .
Based on the expected pharmacologic actions and recommendations for other beta adrenergic blockers and hydrochlorothiazide , the following measures should be considered when clinically warranted .
Hemodialysis is unlikely to make a useful contribution to metoprolol elimination [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Bradycardia and conduction disturbances : Use atropine , adrenergic - stimulating drugs or pacemaker .
Hypotension or shock : Treat underlying bradycardia .
Consider intravenous expansion , vasopressors , injection of glucagon ( if necessary , followed by an intravenous infusion of glucagon ) , or intravenous administration of adrenergic drugs such as dobutamine , Heart failure : Treat bradycardia if present and support hemodynamics with inotropes if necessary .
Bronchospasm : Can usually be reversed by bronchodilators .
11 DESCRIPTION Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP has the antihypertensive effect of metoprolol tartrate , a beta adrenoreceptor blocker , and hydrochlorothiazide , a thiazide diruetic .
It is available as tablets for oral administration .
The 50 mg / 25 mg tablets contain 50 mg of metoprolol tartrate USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP ; the 100 mg / 25 mg tablets contain 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP ; and the 100 mg / 50 mg tablets contain 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate USP and 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
Metoprolol tartrate USP is ( ± ) - 1 - ( Isopropylamino ) - 3 - [ p - ( 2 - methoxyethyl ) phenoxy ] - 2 - propanol L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 2 : 1 ) salt , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metoprolol tartrate USP is a white , crystalline powder .
It is very soluble in water ; freely soluble in methylene chloride , in chloroform , and in alcohol ; slightly soluble in acetone ; and insoluble in ether .
Its molecular weight is 684 . 82 .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; slightly soluble in water ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Its molecular weight is 297 . 73 .
Inactive Ingredients : Microcrystalline cellulose , anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized starch , corn starch , compressible sugar , sodium starch glycolate , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , D & C Yellow No . 10 ( 50 mg / 25 mg and 100 mg / 50 mg tablets ) , and FD & C Red No . 40 and FD & C Yellow No . 6 ( 100 mg / 25 mg tablets ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metoprolol is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenergic receptor blocker .
This preferential effect is not absolute however , and at higher plasma concentrations , metoprolol also inhibits beta2 - adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature .
Metoprolol has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , and membrane - stabilizing activity is detectable only at plasma concentrations much greater than required for beta - blockade .
Animal and human experiments indicate that metoprolol slows the sinus rate and decreases AV nodal conduction .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents has not been elucidated .
However , several possible mechanisms have been proposed : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic neuron sites , leading to decreased cardiac output ; ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery ; and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide diuretics is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Metoprolol Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed the beta - blocking activity of metoprolol in man , as shown by ( 1 ) reduction in heart rate and cardiac output at rest and upon exercise , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic blood pressure upon exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction of reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
Significant beta - blocking effect ( as measured by reduction of exercise heart rate ) occurs within 1 hour after oral administration , and its duration is dose - related .
For example , a 50 % reduction of the maximum registered effect after single oral doses of 20 mg , 50 mg , and 100 mg occurred at 3 . 3 hours , 5 . 0 hours , and 6 . 4 hours , respectively , in normal subjects .
After repeated oral dosages of 100 mg twice daily , a significant reduction in exercise systolic blood pressure was evident at 12 hours .
There is a linear relationship between the log of plasma levels and reduction of exercise heart rate .
However , antihypertensive activity does not appear to be related to plasma levels .
Because of variable plasma levels attained with a given dose and lack of a consistent relationship of antihypertensive activity to dose , selection of proper dosage requires individual titration .
The onset of action of thiazides occurs in 2 hours and the peak effect at about 4 hours .
The action persists for approximately 6 hours to 12 hours .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In man , absorption of metoprolol hydrochlorothiazide is rapid and complete .
Plasma levels following oral administration , however , approximate 50 % of levels following intravenous administration , indicating about 50 % first - pass metabolism .
Hydrochlorothiazide is rapidly absorbed , as indicated by peak plasma concentrations 1 hours to 2 . 5 hours after oral administration .
Plasma levels of the drug are proportional to dose ; the concentration in whole blood is 1 . 6 times to 1 . 8 times higher than in plasma .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
At maximal therapeutic dosage , all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic potency .
Thiazides increase excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Natriuresis causes a secondary loss of potassium .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Thiazides do not affect normal blood pressure .
Effect of Food Gastrointestinal absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is enhanced when administered with food .
Absorption is decreased in patients with congestive heart failure , and the pharmacokinetics are considerably different in these patients .
Distribution Plasma levels achieved are highly variable after oral administration .
Only a small fraction of the drug ( about 12 % ) is bound to human serum albumin .
Metoprolol is a racemic mixture of R - and S - enantiomers .
Less than 5 % of an oral dose of metoprolol is recovered unchanged in the urine ; the rest is excreted by the kidneys as metabolites that appear to have no clinical significance .
The systemic availability and half - life of metoprolol in patients with renal failure do not differ to a clinically significant degree from those in normal subjects .
Consequently , no reduction in dosage is usually needed in patients with chronic renal failure .
Elimination Thiazides are eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
After oral administration of 25 mg to 100 mg doses , 72 % to 97 % of the dose is excreted in the urine , indicating dose - independent absorption .
Hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated from plasma in a biphasic fashion with a terminal half - life of 10 hours to 17 hours .
Plasma protein binding is 67 . 9 % .
Plasma clearance is 15 . 9 L / hr to 30 . 0 L / hr ; volume of distribution is 3 . 6 L / kg to 7 . 8 L / kg Specific Populations : Geriatric Patients In elderly subjects with clinically normal renal function , there are no significant differences in metoprolol pharmacokinetics compared to young subjects .
Racial or Ethnic Groups Metoprolol is extensively metabolized by the cytochrome P450 enzyme system in the liver .
The oxidative metabolism of metoprolol is under genetic control with a major contribution of the polymorphic cytochrome P450 isoform 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) .
There are marked ethnic differences in the prevalence of the poor metabolizers ( PM ) phenotype .
Approximately 7 % of Caucasians and less than 1 % Asian are poor metabolizers .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2D6 is absent in about 8 % of Caucasians ( poor metabolizers ) and about 2 % of most other populations .
CYP2D6 can be inhibited by several drugs .
Poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 will have increased ( several - fold ) metoprolol blood levels , decreasing metoprolol ' s cardioselectivity .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets : Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been conducted with metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets produced no evidence of impaired fertility in male or female rats administered gavaged doses up to 200 / 50 mg / kg ( about 10 times and 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) prior to mating and throughout gestation and rearing of young .
Metoprolol tartrate : Long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
In a 2 - year study in rats at three oral dosage levels of up to 800 mg / kg per day ( 41 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg for a 60 - kg patient ) , there was no increase in the development of spontaneously occurring benign or malignant neoplasms of any type .
The only histologic changes that appeared to be drug related were an increased incidence of generally mild focal accumulation of foamy macrophages in pulmonary alveoli and a slight increase in biliary hyperplasia .
In a 21 - month study in Swiss albino mice at three oral dosage levels of up to 750 mg / kg per day ( about 18 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg for a 60 - kg patient ) , benign lung tumors ( small adenomas ) occurred more frequently in female mice receiving the highest dose than in untreated control animals .
There was no increase in malignant or total ( benign plus malignant ) lung tumors , or in the overall incidence of tumors or malignant tumors .
This 21 - month study was repeated in CD - 1 mice , and no statistically or biologically significant differences were observed between treated and control mice of either sex for any type of tumor .
All mutagenicity tests performed ( a dominant lethal study in mice , chromosome studies in somatic cells , a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test , and a nucleus anomaly test in somatic interphase nuclei ) were negative .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to metoprolol tartrate was observed in a study performed in rats at doses up to 22 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the daily dose of 200 mg in a 60 kg patient .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice at doses up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ( about 120 times the MRHD of 25 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) or in male and female rats at doses up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ( about 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
However , there was equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in the Ames bacterial mutagenicity testor the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations .
Nor was it genotoxic in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , and in the Aspergillus nidulans nondisjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day and 4 mg / kg / day ( about 20 times and 1 . 6 times the MRHD , on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tablets 50 mg / 25 mg Capsule - shaped , yellow , debossed with ‘ S ’ and ‘ 370 ’ on either side of breakline on one side and plain on other side , 50 mg of metoprolol tartrate and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide Bottles of 30 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … … NDC 62756 - 370 - 83 Bottles of 100 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … ..
NDC 62756 - 370 - 88 Bottles of 100 with Non Child Resistant Cap … … ..
NDC 62756 - 370 - 08 Bottles of 1000 with Non Child Resistant Cap … .... NDC 62756 - 370 - 18 Tablets 100 mg / 25 mg Capsule - shaped , pink , debossed with ‘ S ’ and ‘ 368 ’ on either side of breakline on one side and plain on other side , 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide Bottles of 30 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … … NDC 62756 - 368 - 83 Bottles of 100 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … ..
NDC 62756 - 368 - 88 Bottles of 100 with Non Child Resistant Cap … … ..
NDC 62756 - 368 - 08 Bottles of 1000 with Non Child Resistant Cap … .... NDC 62756 - 368 - 18 Tablets 100 mg / 50 mg Capsule - shaped , yellow , debossed with ‘ S ’ and ‘ 369 ’ on either side of breakline on one side and plain on other side , 100 mg of metoprolol tartrate and 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide Bottles of 30 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … … NDC 62756 - 369 - 83 Bottles of 100 with Child Resistant Cap … … … … ..
NDC 62756 - 369 - 88 Bottles of 100 with Non Child Resistant Cap … … ..
NDC 62756 - 369 - 08 Bottles of 1000 with Non Child Resistant Cap … .... NDC 62756 - 369 - 18 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to take metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as directed , with or immediately following meals .
If a dose is missed , advise the patient to take only the next scheduled dose ( without doubling it ) .
Advise patients to not discontinue metoprolol tartrate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets without consulting their healthcare provider .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Survey No . 259 / 15 , Dadra - 396 191 , ( U . T . of D & NH ) , India .
ISS .
05 / 2022 5232253 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Label - 50 mg - 25 mg NDC 62756 - 370 - 88 Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 50 mg / 25 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Label - 100 mg - 25 mg NDC 62756 - 368 - 88 Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Label - 100 mg - 50 mg NDC 62756 - 369 - 88 Metoprolol Tartrate and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 50 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
