ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : ALCOHOL 70 . 0 w % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Sodium Hyaluronate , Camellia Sinesis Leaf Extract , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Aloe Barbadensis , Leaf Extract , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate PURPOSE Purpose : Antiseptic WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Do not use the product on the following areas : Around the eyes and ears , in the mouth , large body part and damaged skin ( it may cause irritation . )
2 .
If you suffer from the next symptom , discontinue use of the product immediately and consult a physician or pharmacist .
1 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms e . g . rash , erythema , itchiness , and edema 2 ) Skin irritation symptoms 3 .
Other precautions 1 ) For external use only .
( Do not swllow . )
2 ) Avoid contact with eyes .
If it contacts with eyes , wash with clean clean water and consult a physician or a pharmacist .
3 ) Be careful not to inhale vapors in case of using for a long time .
( In case of inhaling large amounts of ethanol vapor , it may cause irritation of the mucous membranes and headaches . )
( Limited to ethanol - containing the product ) 4 ) If you use this product on the same area repeatedly , cure should be provided as the skin may become rough due to excessive oil removal .
5 ) Do not use sealed bandages , cast bandages , or packs as they many cause irritation .
6 ) Do not use this drug on the anal or vagina areas , or with hot packs , as it may cause irritation or chemical burns .
7 ) Use only for the intended purpose .
4 .
Precaution for storage 1 ) Keep away from direct sunlight and do not expose the product to heating devices or flame .
2 ) Let the children not touch this drug and in case of swallowing it , go to the hospital immediately .
3 ) After use .
close the lid completely and prevent the product from drying or foreign objects from getting inside the container .
4 ) In case of keeping the product on the different container , it may cause accidents or deterioration of quality .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Uses Uses : Disinfection of hands and skin Directions Directions : Spray an appropriate amount on your hands and rub thoroughly to dry .
Other information Other information ■ Read directions and precautions before use .
■ Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ℃ .
PACKAGE LABEL - PURE PERFECT SANITIZER GEL 50 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PURE PERFECT SANITIZER GEL 500 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
