For Dermatologic Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nystatin Ointment USP for topical use only , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin units per gram , in an ointment base of light mineral oil and white petrolatum .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight 926 . 13 Molecular Formula C47H75NO17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin is an antifungal antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
It probably acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of the fungus with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin is a polyene antibiotic that is obtained from Streptomyces noursei , and is the first well tolerated antifungal antibiotic of dependable efficacy for the treatment of cutaneous , oral and intestinal infections caused by Candida [ Monilia ] albicans and other Candida species .
It exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria .
Nystatin Ointment USP provides specific therapy for all localized forms of candidiasis .
Symptomatic relief is rapid , often occurring within 24 to 72 hours after the initiation of treatment .
Cure is effected both clinically and mycologically in most cases of localized candidiasis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Ointment USP is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida [ Monilia ] albicans and other Candida species .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Ointment USP is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Should a reaction of hypersensitivity occur , the drug should be immediately withdrawn and appropriate measures taken .
This preparation is not for ophthalmic use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin Ointment USP is virtually non - toxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants , even on prolonged administration .
If irritation on topical application should occur , discontinue medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin Ointment USP should be applied liberally to affected areas twice a day or as indicated until healing is complete .
Nystatin cream is usually preferred to nystatin ointment in candidiasis involving intertriginous areas ; very moist lesions , however , are best treated with nystatin topical powder .
This preparation does not stain skin or mucous membranes and provides a simple , convenient means of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Ointment USP ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) is a yellow ointment available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 68788 - 9516 - 1 ) 30 g tube ( NDC 68788 - 9516 - 3 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 • www . perrigo . com Rev 08 - 15 : 2K800 RC JX1 Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Principal Display Panel Rx Only Nystatin Ointment USP ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units ) NET WT 15 g or 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
