IMPORTANT : READ ALL PRODUCT INFORMATION BEFORE USING .
KEEP THIS PACKAGE FOR FULL INFORMATION .
DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 76 % Purpose Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Uses Temporarily suppresses cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritants .
Controls the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not take by mouth or place in nostrils Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • if epileptic • with high blood pressure Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • See important warnings under ' When using this product ' .
• Adults and children 12 years of age and older : rub on the throat and chest in a thick layer • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor .
• Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor .
Other information • Close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
Inactive ingredients Beeswax ( yellow ) , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , olibanum , peppermint oil , piper nigrum ( pepper ) seed oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
Questions ?
1 - 877 - 275 - 7253 Distributed by : SAJE NATURAL WELLNESS 500 - 88 E . Pender St . Vancouver , BC Canada V6A 3X3 | saje . com | 1 - 877 - 275 - 7253 | Made by our friends in Canada SKU 435601 Do not use if security seal around bottle is broken or missing .
Lift Here We support recycling .
Please recycle where possible .
Chest Comfort Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Balm Saje ® Natural Wellness Chest Comfort Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Balm net wt .
1 . 91 oz | 54 . 1 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
