GET READY FOR WELLNESS Experience relief from muscular and joint aches from backache , arthritis , sprains and strains with this pain - relieving convenience kit .
Includes our popular roll - on oil blend , mist , massage oil , and bath salts .
Everything you need to feel better naturally .
No pain , all gain .
Kit Contains 4 Saje Favorites : PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic oil blend PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic massage oil PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic mist PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic bath salt soak IMPORTANT : FOR EACH PRODUCT , READ ALL PRODUCT INFORMATION ON OUTER AND INNER BOX FLAP BEFORE USING .
KEEP THIS PACKAGE FOR FULL INFORMATION .
DO NOT USE IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SECURITY FEATURES ARE BROKEN OR MISSING : SEAL AROUND BOTTLE ( OIL BLEND & MASSAGE OIL ) | SEAL AROUND BOTTLE ' S CAP AND NECK ( MIST ) | TEAR NOTCH ON ZIPPERED BAG INSIDE ( SALTS ) Distributed by : SAJE NATURAL WELLNESS | 500 - 88 East Pender St . Vancouver , BC Canada V6A 3X3 | saje . com | 1 - 877 - 275 - 7253 | Made by our friends in Canada We support recycling .
Please recycle where possible SKU 22250701 Lift here to continue to read important product information on all products .
PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic oil blend Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 1 . 98 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • if epileptic • with high blood pressure When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• Not recommended for children under 12 years of age .
Inactive ingredients Anthemis nobilis flower oil , eucalyptus oil , lavender oil , melaleuca leucadendron cajaput oil , origanum majorana leaf oil , peppermint oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic oil blend Apply to muscles and joints experiencing minor aches and pains , as directed : A - Shoulders B - Neck C - Back D - Elbows E - Hands F - Soles of feet G - Hips H - Thighs I - Knees J - Calves PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic massage oil Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 1 . 37 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • if epileptic • with high blood pressure When using this product , • avoid contact with the eyes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right awa y . Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Anthemis nobilis flower oil , eucalyptus oil , lavender oil , melaleuca leucadendron cajaput oil , origanum majorana leaf oil , peppermint oil , prunus armeniaca ( apricot ) kernel oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , tocopherol , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic mist Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 0 . 25 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor cuts , scrapes , or insect bites Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • if epileptic • with high blood pressure When using this product , avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , do not use this product Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Anthemis nobilis flower oil , eucalyptus oil , lavender oil , melaleuca leucadendron cajaput oil , origanum majorana leaf oil , peppermint oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and water .
PAIN RELEASE pain relieving bath salt soak Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 0 . 16 % Purpose External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with scrapes , insect bites , and minor skin irritations .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • if epileptic • with high blood pressure When using this product , avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area by dissolving 2 teaspoons of salt soak in warm water and soaking area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Anthemis nobilis flower oil , cinnamomum camphora ( camphor ) bark oil , corn starch , epsom salt , eucalyptus oil , lavender oil , origanum majorana leaf oil , peppermint oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , sea salt , and sodium bicarbonate .
Saje Natural Wellness PAIN RELEASE KIT topical analgesic convenience kit 1 TOPICAL ANALGESIC OIL BLEND 0 . 34 FL . OZ .
| 10 mL 1 TOPICAL ANALGESIC MASSAGE OIL 1 . 4 FL . OZ .
| 40 mL 1 TOPICAL ANALGESIC MIST 1 FL . OZ .
| 30 mL 1 TOPICAL ANALGESIC BATH SALT SOAK NET WT .
4 . 2 OZ .
| 120 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
