DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient Menthol 7 . 5 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : ■ arthritis ■ simple backache ■ strains ■ sprains ■ bruises Warnings For external use only Do not use ■ on wounds , damaged , broken or irritated skin ■ with a heating pad or apply local heat to the area of use When using this product • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton .
• do not allow contact with • the eyes and mucous membranes • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) or a medicated patch to the area of use • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • avoid applying into skin folds < do not use more than 4 patches at a time Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ severe burning sensation , redness or irritation develop ■ you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : ■ gently fold the patch in half to remove center section of film backing .
Apply the exposed adhesive portion to the site of pain .
■ remove remaining film backing from both sides and finish applying to skin ■ apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other Information store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients aluminum glycinate , propylene glycol , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , tartaric acid , 2 , 4 - Imidazolidinedione , disodium edta , water , glycerin Questions or Comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 877 - 255 - 6999 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
