Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses ▪ effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) ▪ effectively relieves itching , scaling , burning and discomfort that can accompany athlete ' s foot and jock itch Warnings For external use onlyFlammability Warning : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Flammable mixture ; do not use near fire or flame , or expose to heat or temperatures above 49 ° C ( 120 ° F ) .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Do not use ▪ in or near the mouth or the eyes ▪ for nail or scalp infections Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) or 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Do not use on children under 2 years of unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions ▪ clean the affected area and dry thoroughly ▪ shake can well , hold 4 " to 6 " from skin .
Spray a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor ▪ supervise children in the use of this product .
▪ for athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
▪ for athlete ' s foot and ringworm use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
Other information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients Aloe vera gel , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , isopropyl myristate , propylene carbonate , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 10 % w / w ) , sorbitan monooleate , stearalkonium hectorite .
Propellant : Isobutane , normal butane , propane Questions ?
1 - 800 - 344 - 7239 © 2016 Distributed by INSIGHT Pharmaceuticals Corp . , a Prestige Brands Company Tarrytown , NY 10591 Made in India TAMPER RESISTANT AEROSOL CAN FOR YOUR PROTECTION Principal display panel : Ting ® Athlete ’ s Foot Spray 2 % Miconazole Nitrate Antifungal Spray Powder Net WT 4 . 5 oz ( 128 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
