Active Ingredient Camphor 3 . 1 % Purpose Camphor 3 . 1 % ..........................
External Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
Do not • apply to wounds or damaged skin • bandage tightly • use with a heating pad When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes • use only as directed .
Stop and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a physician Other Information • store in a cool , dry place Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Peel Oil , Citrus Limon ( Lemon ) Peel Oil , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Mentha arvensis ( Peppermint Leaf ) Oil , Rosmarinus Officinalis Leaf ( Rosemary ) Oil Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 902 - 8594 or www . 024 zone . com Manufactured for O24TM Naturals , LLC , 306 Hallmark Dr , Arlington , TX 76011 Questions ?
Call TOLL - FREE : 1 . 866 . 902 . 8594 or visit us at : www . 024 zone . com O24TM is a Registered Trademark of O24TM Naturals , LLC .
Made in U . S . A . Active Ingredient Camphor 3 . 1 % O24 ' s Unique Process Our unique process combines pure essential oils without the use of alcohol , glycerin , synthetics , chemical binding agents , or preservatives unlocking the full potential of all ingredients Principal Display Panel O24 Naturals O24 Pain Neutralizer Safe and Natural Topical Pain Relieving Spray for minor aches and pains associated with arthritis , strains , backaches , and bruises Spray Bottle 1 fl . oz .
( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
