For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % contain desoximetasone a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
Chemically , desoximetasone is Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
It has the molecular formula C22H29FO4 and a molecular weight of 376 . 47 .
The CAS Registry Number is 382 - 67 - 2 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Desoximetasone is a white to off - white , odorless , crystalline powder and is soluble in alcohol , acetone , chloroform , and hot ethyl acetate ; slightly soluble in ether and benzene ; and insoluble in water , dilute aqueous acids and alkalis .
Each gram of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in an emollient cream consisting of white petrolatum , purified water , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohols , mineral oil , cetostearyl alcohol and edetate disodium .
Each gram of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in an emollient cream consisting of white petrolatum , purified water , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohols , mineral oil and cetostearyl alcohol .
Each gram of Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in a gel base consisting of purified water , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , isopropyl myristate , carbomer 940 , trolamine , and SDAG - 3 95 % alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses , corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as desoximetasone , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Desoximetasone , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees , are metabolized primarily in the liver and excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % with tagged desoximetasone showed a total of 5 . 2 % ± 2 . 9 % excretion in urine ( 4 . 1 % ± 2 . 3 % ) and feces ( 1 . 1 % ± 0 . 6 % ) and no detectable level ( limit of sensitivity : 0 . 005 µg / mL ) in the blood when it was applied topically on the back followed by occlusion for 24 hours .
Seven days after application , no further radioactivity was detected in urine or feces .
The half - life of the material was 15 ± 2 hours ( for urine ) and 17 ± 2 hours ( for feces ) between the third and fifth trial day .
Studies with other similarly structured steroids have shown that predominant metabolite reaction occurs through conjugation to form the glucuronide and sulfate ester .
Studies performed with Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % indicate that they are in the high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are high potency corticosteroids indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % are not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using ACTH stimulation and urinary free cortisol tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % or Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % or Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
This medication should not be used on the face , underarm or groin area .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within two weeks , the diagnosis and therapy should be re - evaluated .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or unintended effects : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Other topical corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % or Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % or Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % without first talking to your physician .
• If no improvement is seen in 2 weeks , contact your physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : • ACTH stimulation test • Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of desoximetasone .
Desoximetasone was nonmutagenic in the Ames test .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Desoximetasone has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice , rats , and rabbits when given by subcutaneous or dermal routes of administration in doses 3 to 30 times the human dose of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % or in doses 15 to 150 times the human dose of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % or Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids can result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than adult patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with linear bone growth in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In generally , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical studies the incidence of adverse reactions was low ( 0 . 8 % ) for Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % and included pruritus , erythema , vesiculation and burning sensation .
The incidence of adverse reactions was also 0 . 8 % for Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and included burning , folliculitis , and folliculopustular lesions .
The incidence of adverse reactions for Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % was 0 . 3 % with one subject reporting stinging and burning at the site of application .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when topical corticosteroids are used as recommended but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ; Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % and Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 05 % or Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % or Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
HOW SUPPLIED Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % is supplied in 15 gram tubes NDC 54868 - 2829 - 0 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Revised June , 2009 PK - 6352 - 0 Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 05 % , 15 g Tube Carton 15 g Desoximetasone Gel USP , 0 . 05 % FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
