Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 7 % , Homosalate 6 . 0 % , Octocrylene 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Flammable Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes . Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
May stain some fabrics .
Directions Hold container 4 to 8 inches from the skin to apply .
Do n't spray directly into face .
Apply on hand then apply to face .
Spray evenly and liberatly on your skin .
Apply 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply throughout the day .
• at least every 2 hours • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Dimethicone , Fragrance , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - NO UV RAY , Mon - Fri HAWAIIAN Tropic AntiOxidant + REFRESH SUNSCREEN MIST Helps prevent skin damage & skin aging from the sun 30 SPF 30 BROAD SPECTRUM SUNSCREEN SPRAY UVA & UVB PROTECTION Good for FACE and BODY lightweight & oil - free formula with green tea extract [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
