DESCRIPTION Guaifenesin ( glyceryl guaiacolate ) has the chemical name 3 - ( 2 - methoxyphenoxy ) - 1 , 2 - propanediol .
Its molecular formula is C10H14O4 with a molecular weight of 198 . 21 .
It is a white or slightly gray crystalline substance with a slightly bitter aromatic taste .
One gram dissolves in 20 mL water at 25 ° C ; it is freely soluble in ethanol .
Guaifenesin is readily absorbed from the GI tract and is rapidly metabolized and excreted in the urine .
Guaifenesin has a plasma half - life of one hour .
The major urinary metabolite is β - ( 2 - methoxyphenoxy ) lactic acid .
Guaifenesin is an expectorant available for oral administration as : Tablets — each containing 200 mg guaifenesin , USP .
Other ingredients : crospovidone , D & C red # 30 aluminum lake , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polysaccharides , pregelatinized starch , silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate , and stearic acid .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Guaifenesin is an expectorant , the action of which promotes or facilitates the removal of secretions from the respiratory tract .
By increasing sputum volume and making sputum less viscous , guaifenesin facilitates expectoration of retained secretions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus , drain bronchial tubes and make coughs more productive .
Helps loosen phlegm and thin bronchial secretions in patients with stable chronic bronchitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Animal studies to assess the long - term carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility in animals or humans have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects — Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
Safe use in pregnancy has not been established relative to possible adverse effects on fetal development .
Therefore , these products should not be used in pregnant patients unless , in the judgment of the physician , the potential benefits outweigh possible hazards .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether guaifenesin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when these products are administered to a nursing woman and a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Laboratory Test Interactions : Guaifenesin or its metabolites may cause color interference with the VMA ( vanillylmandelic acid ) test for catechols .
It may also falsely elevate the level of urinary 5 - HIAA ( 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ) in certain serotonin metabolite chemical tests because of color interference .
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Guaifenesin is well tolerated and has a wide margin of safety .
Side effects have been generally mild and infrequent .
Nausea and vomiting are the side effects that occur most commonly .
Dizziness , headache , and rash ( including urticaria ) have been reported rarely .
OVERDOSAGE In massive overdosage the stomach should be emptied ( emesis and / or gastric lavage ) and further absorption prevented .
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
The acute toxicity of guaifenesin is low and overdosage is unlikely to produce serious toxic effects .
In laboratory animals no toxicity resulted when guaifenesin was administered by stomach tube in doses up to 5 grams / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children 12 years of age and older : One to 2 tablets ( 200 mg to 400 mg ) every four hours , not to exceed 2400 mg ( 12 tablets ) in 24 hours .
PATIENTS SHOULD BE ADVISED TO KEEP THESE AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN AND TO SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE .
HOW SUPPLIED Guaifenesin Tablets — Each round , scored , rose - colored tablet contains 200 mg guaifenesin USP — available in blisters of 30 ( NDC 67046 - 250 - 30 ) STORAGE — Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect tablets from moisture .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Qualitest PHARMACEUTICALS ® Huntsville , AL 35811 8180142 Rev 5 / 08 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
