[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Use for the management of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients water , cyclopentasiloxane , ethoxydiglycol , steareth - 2 , methylpropanediol , steareth - 21 , polyquaternium - 37 , propylene glycol dicaprylate / dicaprate , phenoxyethanol , caprylyl glycol , fragrance , panthenol , allantoin , ethylhexylglycerin , PPG - 1 trideceth - 6 Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 Distributed by Alchemee LLC Santa Monica , CA 90401 Made in the USA of Foreign and Domestic Components Questions 1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 proactiv . com Proactiv is a trademark of Taro Pharmaceutical U . S . A . , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 9 . 45 g Tube Box proactiv ® EMERGENCY BLEMISH RELIEF 0 . 33 OZ .
( 9 . 45 g ) benzoyl peroxide acne medication [ MULTIMEDIA ]
