Lotensin HCT ® benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide USP Combination Tablets 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg 20 mg / 25 mg Rx only Prescribing Information WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Lotensin HCT as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
See Warnings : Fetal Toxicity DESCRIPTION Benazepril hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder , soluble ( > 100 mg / mL ) in water , in ethanol , and in methanol .
Benazepril hydrochloride ’ s chemical name is 3 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenyl - ( 1 S ) - propyl ] amino ] - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 2 - oxo - 1 H - 1 - ( 3 S ) - benzazepine - 1 - acetic acid monohydrochloride ; its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C24H28N2O5 · HCl , and its molecular weight is 460 . 96 .
Benazeprilat , the active metabolite of benazepril , is a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor .
Benazepril is converted to benazeprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
Hydrochlorothiazide USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Hydrochlorothiazide ’ s chemical name is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide ; its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C7 H8 ClN3 O4 S2 , and its molecular weight is 297 . 73 .
Hydrochloro - thiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Lotensin HCT is a combination of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide USP .
The tablets are formulated for oral administration with a combination of 5 , 10 , or 20 mg of benazepril hydrochloride and 6 . 25 , 12 . 5 , or 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are cellulose compounds , crospovidone , hydrogenated castor oil , iron oxides ( 10 / 12 . 5 - mg , 20 / 12 . 5 - mg , and 20 / 25 - mg tablets ) , lactose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Benazepril and benazeprilat inhibit angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and in animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Hypertensive patients treated with benazepril alone for up to 52 weeks had elevations of serum potassium of up to 0 . 2 mEq / L .
Similar patients treated with benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 24 weeks had no consistent changes in their serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
In animal studies , benazepril had no inhibitory effect on the vasopressor response to angiotensin II and did not interfere with the hemodynamic effects of the autonomic neurotransmitters acetylcholine , epinephrine , and norepinephrine .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of Lotensin HCT remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which benazepril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , benazepril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin , so coadministration of an ACE inhibitor tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following oral administration of Lotensin HCT , peak plasma concentrations of benazepril are reached within 0 . 5 - 1 . 0 hours .
As determined by urinary recovery , the extent of absorption is at least 37 % .
The absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is somewhat slower ( 1 - 2 . 5 hours ) and somewhat more complete ( 50 % - 80 % ) .
In fasting subjects , the rate and extent of absorption of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide from Lotensin HCT are not different , respectively , from the rate and extent of absorption of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide from immediate - release monotherapy formulations .
The absorption of benazepril from Lotensin ® tablets is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract , but possible effects of food upon absorption of either component from Lotensin HCT tablets have not been studied .
The reported studies of food effects on hydrochlorothiazide absorption have been inconclusive .
The absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is increased by agents that reduce gastrointestinal motility , but it is reported to be reduced by 50 % in patients with congestive heart failure .
Cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts benazepril to its active metabolite , benazeprilat .
Peak plasma concentrations of benazeprilat are reached 1 - 2 hours after drug intake in the fasting state and 2 - 4 hours after drug intake in the nonfasting state .
The serum protein binding of benazepril is about 96 . 7 % and that of benazeprilat about 95 . 3 % , as measured by equilibrium dialysis ; on the basis of in vitro studies , the degree of protein binding should be unaffected by age , hepatic dysfunction , or – over the concentration range of 0 . 24 - 23 . 6 µmol / L – concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized .
Its apparent volume of distribution is 3 . 6 - 7 . 8 L / kg , and its measured plasma protein binding is 67 . 9 % .
The drug also accumulates in red blood cells , so that whole blood levels are 1 . 6 - 1 . 8 times those measured in plasma .
In studies of rats given 14 C - benazepril , benazepril and its metabolites crossed the blood - brain barrier only to an extremely low extent .
Multiple doses of benazepril did not result in accumulation in any tissue except the lung , where , as with other ACE inhibitors in similar studies , there was a slight increase in concentration due to slow elimination in that organ .
Some placental passage occurred when benazepril was administered to pregnant rats .
In humans , hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta freely , and levels in umbilical - cord blood are similar to those in the maternal circulation .
Benazepril is almost completely metabolized to benazeprilat , which has much greater ACE inhibitory activity than benazepril , and to the glucuronide conjugates of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Only trace amounts of an administered dose of benazepril can be recovered unchanged in the urine ; about 20 % of the dose is excreted as benazeprilat , 4 % as benazepril glucuronide , and 8 % as benazeprilat glucuronide .
In patients with hepatic dysfunction due to cirrhosis , levels of benazeprilat are essentially unaltered .
Similarly , the pharmacokinetics of benazepril and benazeprilat do not appear to be influenced by age .
The kinetics of benazepril are dose - proportional within the dosage range of 5 - 20 mg .
Small deviations from dose proportionality were observed when the broader range of 2 - 80 mg was studied , possibly due to the saturable binding of the compound to ACE .
The effective half - life of accumulation of benazeprilat following multiple dosing of benazepril hydrochloride is 10 - 11 hours .
Thus , steady - state concentrations of benazeprilat should be reached after 2 or 3 doses of benazepril hydrochloride given once daily .
During chronic administration ( 28 days ) of once - daily doses of benazepril between 5 mg and 20 mg , the kinetics did not change , and there was no significant accumulation .
Accumulation ratios based on AUC and urinary recovery of benazeprilat were 1 . 19 and 1 . 27 , respectively .
When dialysis was started 2 hours after ingestion of 10 mg of benazepril , approximately 6 % of benazeprilat was removed in 4 hours of dialysis .
The parent compound , benazepril , was not detected in the dialysate .
Benazepril and benazeprilat are cleared predominantly by renal excretion in healthy subjects with normal renal function .
Nonrenal ( i . e . , biliary ) excretion accounts for approximately 11 % - 12 % of benazeprilat excretion in healthy subjects .
In patients with renal failure , biliary clearance may compensate to an extent for deficient renal clearance .
The disposition of benazepril and benazeprilat in patients with mild - to - moderate renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min ) is similar to that in patients with normal renal function .
In patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min , peak benazeprilat levels and the initial ( alpha phase ) half - life increase , and time to steady state may be delayed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Thiazide diuretics are eliminated by the kidney , with a terminal half - life of 5 - 15 hours .
In a study of patients with impaired renal function ( mean creatinine clearance of 19 mL / min ) , the half - life of hydrochlorothiazide elimination was lengthened to 21 hours .
Pharmacodynamics Single and multiple doses of 10 mg or more of benazepril cause inhibition of plasma ACE activity by at least 80 % - 90 % for at least 24 hours after dosing .
For up to 4 hours after a 10 - mg dose , pressor responses to exogenous angiotensin I were inhibited by 60 % - 90 % .
Administration of benazepril to patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent , with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt and / or volume depleted ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension ) .
In single - dose studies , benazepril lowered blood pressure within 1 hour , with peak reductions achieved 2 - 4 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
In multiple - dose studies , once - daily doses of 20 - 80 mg decreased seated pressure ( systolic / diastolic ) 24 hours after dosing by about 6 - 12 / 4 - 7 mmHg .
The reductions at trough are about 50 % of those seen at peak .
Four dose - response studies of benazepril monotherapy using once - daily dosing were conducted in 470 mild - to - moderate hypertensive patients not using diuretics .
The minimal effective once - daily dose of benazepril was 10 mg ; further falls in blood pressure , especially at morning trough , were seen with higher doses in the studied dosing range ( 10 - 80 mg ) .
In studies comparing the same daily dose of benazepril given as a single morning dose or as a twice - daily dose , blood pressure reductions at the time of morning trough blood levels were greater with the divided regimen .
During chronic therapy with benazepril , the maximum reduction in blood pressure with any given dose is generally achieved after 1 - 2 weeks .
The antihypertensive effects of benazepril have continued during therapy for at least 2 years .
Abrupt withdrawal of benazepril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
In patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension , total daily doses of Lotensin 20 - 40 mg were similar in effectiveness to total daily doses of captopril 50 - 100 mg , hydrochlorothiazide 25 - 50 mg , nifedipine SR 40 - 80 mg , and propranolol 80 - 160 mg .
The antihypertensive effects of benazepril were not appreciably different in patients receiving high - or low - sodium diets .
In hemodynamic studies in dogs , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance , with an increase in cardiac output and renal blood flow and little or no change in heart rate .
In normal human volunteers , single doses of benazepril caused an increase in renal blood flow but had no effect on glomerular filtration rate .
In clinical trials of benazepril / hydrochlorothiazide using benazepril doses of 5 - 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6 . 25 - 25 mg , the antihypertensive effects were sustained for at least 24 hours , and they increased with increasing dose of either component .
Although benazepril monotherapy is somewhat less effective in blacks than in nonblacks , the efficacy of combination therapy appears to be independent of race .
By blocking the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone axis , administration of benazepril tends to reduce the potassium loss associated with the diuretic .
In clinical trials of Lotensin HCT , the average change in serum potassium was near zero in subjects who received 5 / 6 . 25 mg or 20 / 12 . 5 mg , but the average subject who received 10 / 12 . 5 mg or 20 / 25 mg experienced a mild reduction in serum potassium , similar to that experienced by the average subject receiving the same dose of hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lotensin HCT is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In using Lotensin HCT , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen - vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that benazepril does not have a similar risk ( see WARNINGS , Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis ) .
Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to nonblacks .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lotensin HCT is contraindicated in patients who are anuric .
Lotensin HCT is also contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril , to any other ACE inhibitor , to hydrochlorothiazide , or to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Hypersensitivity reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
Lotensin HCT is also contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including Lotensin HCT ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema : Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors .
In U . S . clinical trials , symptoms consistent with angioedema were seen in none of the subjects who received placebo and in about 0 . 5 % of the subjects who received benazepril .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , treatment with Lotensin HCT should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
When involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx appears likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine injection 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 - 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered ( see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypotension Lotensin HCT can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Like other ACE inhibitors , benazepril has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume and / or salt depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy with Lotensin HCT .
Lotensin HCT should be used cautiously in patients receiving concomitant therapy with other antihypertensives .
The thiazide component of Lotensin HCT may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs , especially ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic - blocking drugs .
The antihypertensive effects of the thiazide component may also be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria , azotemia , and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , Lotensin HCT therapy should be started under close medical supervision ; they should be followed closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of benazepril or diuretic is increased .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in a supine position , and , if necessary , treated with intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Lotensin HCT treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Impaired Renal Function Lotensin HCT should be used with caution in patients with severe renal disease .
Thiazides may precipitate azotemia in such patients , and the effects of repeated dosing may be cumulative .
When the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system is inhibited by benazepril , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure , whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors ( including benazepril ) may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
In a small study of hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , treatment with benazepril was associated with increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine ; these increases were reversible upon discontinuation of benazepril therapy , concomitant diuretic therapy , or both .
When such patients are treated with Lotensin HCT , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some benazepril - treated hypertensive patients with no apparent preexisting renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when benazepril has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
Dosage reduction of Lotensin HCT may be required .
Evaluation of the hypertensive patient should always include assessment of renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients ( incidence probably less than once per 10 , 000 exposures ) but more frequently ( incidence possibly as great as once per 1000 exposures ) in patients with renal impairment , especially those who also have collagen - vascular diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Available data from clinical trials of benazepril are insufficient to show that benazepril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Monitoring of white blood cell counts should be considered in patients with collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Lotensin HCT as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue Lotensin HCT , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to Lotensin HCT for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia [ see Precautions , Pediatric Use ] .
No teratogenic effects of Lotensin were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , and rabbits .
On a mg / m2 basis , the doses used in these studies were 60 times ( in rats ) , 9 times ( in mice ) , and more than 0 . 8 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose ( assuming a 50 - kg woman ) .
On a mg / kg basis these these multiples are 300 times ( in rats ) , 90 times ( in mice ) , and more than 3 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
When hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered without benazepril to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis , at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day respectively , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Similarly , no teratogenic effects of benazepril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , and rabbits ; on a mg / kg basis , the doses used in these studies were 300 times ( in rats ) , 90 times ( in mice ) , and more than 3 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Impaired Hepatic Function Lotensin HCT should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma ( see Hepatic Failure , above ) .
In patients with hepatic dysfunction due to cirrhosis , levels of benazeprilat are essentially unaltered .
No formal pharmacokinetic studies have been carried out in hypertensive patients with impaired liver function .
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
PRECAUTIONS General Derangements of Serum Electrolytes : In clinical trials of benazepril monotherapy , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium at least 0 . 5 mEq / L greater than the upper limit of normal ) occurred in approximately 1 % of hypertensive patients receiving benazepril .
In most cases , these were isolated values which resolved despite continued therapy .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia included renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
Conversely , treatment with thiazide diuretics has been associated with hypokalemia , hyponatremia , and hypochloremic alkalosis .
These disturbances have sometimes been manifest as one or more of dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , nausea , and vomiting .
Hypokalemia can also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis .
The risk of hypokalemia is greatest in patients with cirrhosis of the liver , in patients experiencing a brisk diuresis , in patients who are receiving inadequate oral intake of electrolytes , and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or ACTH .
The opposite effects of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium will approximately balance each other in many patients , so that no net effect upon serum potassium will be seen .
In other patients , one or the other effect may be dominant .
Initial and periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Chloride deficits are generally mild and require specific treatment only under extraordinary circumstances ( e . g . , in liver disease or renal disease ) .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than administration of salt , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides .
In a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy , pathological changes in the parathyroid gland have been observed , with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia .
More serious complications of hyperparathyroidism ( renal lithiasis , bone resorption , and peptic ulceration ) have not been seen .
Thiazides increase the urinary excretion of magnesium , and hypomagnesemia may result .
Other Metabolic Disturbances : Thiazide diuretics tend to reduce glucose tolerance and to raise serum levels of cholesterol , triglycerides , and uric acid .
These effects are usually minor , but frank gout or overt diabetes may be precipitated in susceptible patients .
Cough : Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Surgery / Anesthesia : In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , benazepril will block the angiotensin II formation that could otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur at any time with treatment with ACE inhibitors .
A patient receiving Lotensin HCT should be told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in breathing ) and to take no more drug until after consulting with the prescribing physician .
Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to Lotensin HCT during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving Lotensin HCT should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patient should be told that if syncope occurs , Lotensin HCT should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Hyperkalemia : A patient receiving Lotensin HCT should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
Neutropenia : Patients should be told to promptly report any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Laboratory Tests The hydrochlorothiazide component of Lotensin HCT may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Therapy with Lotensin HCT should be interrupted for a few days before carrying out tests of parathyroid function .
Drug Interactions Potassium Supplements and Potassium - Sparing Diuretics : As noted above ( Derangements of Serum Electrolytes ) , the net effect of Lotensin HCT may be to elevate a patient ’ s serum potassium , to reduce it , or to leave it unchanged .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
If concomitant use of such agents is indicated , they should be given with caution , and the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
Lithium : Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
Because renal clearance of lithium is reduced by thiazides , the risk of lithium toxicity is presumably raised further when , as in therapy with Lotensin HCT , a thiazide diuretic is coadministered with the ACE inhibitor .
Lotensin HCT and lithium should be coadministered with caution , and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors and thiazide diuretics may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
The diuretic and natriuretic effects of thiazide diuretics may also be reduced when NSAIDs are coadministered .
Other : Benazepril has been used concomitantly with beta - adrenergic - blocking agents , calcium - blocking agents , cimetidine , diuretics , digoxin , and hydralazine without evidence of clinically important adverse interactions .
Other ACE inhibitors have had less than additive effects with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because drugs of both classes lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin - angiotensin system .
Interaction studies with warfarin and acenocoumarol have failed to identify any clinically important effects of benazepril on the serum concentrations or clinical effects of these anticoagulants .
Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine , but not enough to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use .
Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine .
The diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics may be reduced by concurrent administration of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins : Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenicity was found when benazepril was given to rats and mice for 104 weeks at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day .
On a body - weight basis , this dose is over 100 times the maximum recommended human dose ; on a body - surface - area basis , this dose is 18 times ( rats ) and 9 times ( mice ) the maximum recommended human dose .
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria ( with or without metabolic activation ) , in an in vitro test for forward mutations in cultured mammalian cells , or in a nucleus anomaly test .
At doses of 50 - 500 mg / kg / day ( 38 - 375 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body - weight basis ; 6 - 61 times the maximum recommended dose on a body - surface - area basis ) , benazepril had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program , rats and mice received hydrochlorothiazide in their feed for 2 years , at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day in mice and up to 100 mg / kg / day in rats .
These studies uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in rats or female mice , but there was equivocal evidence of hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in in vitro assays using strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 of Salmonella typhimurium ( the Ames test ) ; in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations ; or in in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophilasex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) test and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide of 43 - 1300 µg / mL .
Positive test results were also obtained in the Aspergillusnidulans nondisjunction assay , using an unspecified concentration of hydrochlorothiazide .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diets , to doses up to 100 and 4 mg / kg / day , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
Pregnancy Nursing Mothers Minimal amounts of unchanged benazepril and benazeprilat are excreted into the breast milk of lactating women treated with benazepril , so that a newborn child ingesting nothing but breast milk would receive less than 0 . 1 % of the maternal doses of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Thiazides , on the other hand , are definitely excreted into breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrochlorothiazide and the unknown effects of benazepril in infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue Lotensin HCT , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received Lotensin HCT in U . S . clinical studies of Lotensin HCT , 19 % were 65 or older while about 1 . 5 % were 75 or older .
Overall differences in effectiveness or safety were not observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Benazepril and benazeprilat are substantially excreted by the kidney .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to Lotensin HCT : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Benazepril , which crosses the placenta , can theoretically be removed from the neonatal circulation by these means ; there are occasional reports of benefit from these maneuvers with another ACE inhibitor , but experience is limited .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Lotensin HCT has been evaluated for safety in over 2500 patients with hypertension ; over 500 of these patients were treated for at least 6 months , and over 200 were treated for more than 1 year .
The reported side effects were generally mild and transient , and there was no relationship between side effects and age , sex , race , or duration of therapy .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in approximately 7 % of U . S . patients treated with Lotensin HCT and in 4 % of patients treated with placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Lotensin HCT in U . S . studies were cough ( 1 . 0 % ; seePRECAUTIONS ) , “ dizziness ” ( 1 . 0 % ) , headache ( 0 . 6 % ) , and fatigue ( 0 . 6 % ) .
The side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with Lotensin HCT are shown in the table below .
Reactions Possibly or Probably Drug Related Patients in U . S . Placebo - Controlled Studies LOTENSIN HCT N = 665 Placebo N = 235 N % N % “ Dizziness ” 41 6 . 3 8 3 . 4 Fatigue 34 5 . 2 6 2 . 6 Postural Dizziness 23 3 . 5 1 0 . 4 Headache 20 3 . 1 10 4 . 3 Cough 14 2 . 1 3 1 . 3 Hypertonia 10 1 . 5 3 1 . 3 Vertigo 10 1 . 5 2 0 . 9 Nausea 9 1 . 4 2 0 . 9 Impotence 8 1 . 2 0 0 . 0 Somnolence 8 1 . 2 1 0 . 4 Other side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials in 0 . 3 % to 1 . 0 % of patients treated with Lotensin HCT were the following : Angioedema : Edema of the lips or face without other manifestations of angioedema ( 0 . 3 % ) .
See WARNINGS , Angioedema .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension ( seen in 0 . 6 % of patients ) , postural hypotension ( 0 . 3 % ) , palpitations , and flushing .
Gastrointestinal : Vomiting , diarrhea , dyspepsia , anorexia , and constipation .
Neurologic and Psychiatric : Insomnia , nervousness , paresthesia , libido decrease , dry mouth , taste perversion , and tinnitus .
Dermatologic : Rash and sweating .
Other : Gout , urinary frequency , arthralgia , myalgia , asthenia , and pain ( including chest pain and abdominal pain ) .
Other adverse experiences reported in 0 . 3 % or more of Lotensin HCT patients in U . S . controlled clinical trials , and rarer events seen in post - marketing experience , were the following ; asterisked entries occurred in more than 1 % of patients ( in some , a causal relationship to Lotensin HCT is uncertain ) : Angioedema : Edema of the lips or face without other manifestations of angioedema .
See WARNINGS , Angioedema .
Cardiovascular : Syncope , peripheral vascular disorder , and tachycardia .
Body as a Whole : Infection , back pain * , flu syndrome * , fever , chills , and neck pain .
Dermatologic : Photosensitivity and pruritus .
Gastrointestinal : Gastroenteritis , flatulence , and tooth disorder .
Neurologic and Psychiatric : Hypesthesia , abnormal vision , abnormal dreams , and retinal disorder .
Respiratory : Upper respiratory infection * , epistaxis , bronchitis , rhinitis * , sinusitis * , and voice alteration .
Other : Conjunctivitis , arthritis , urinary tract infection , alopecia , and urinary frequency * .
Monotherapy with benazepril has been evaluated for safety in over 6000 patients .
In clinical trials , the observed adverse reactions to benazepril were similar to those seen in trials of Lotensin HCT .
In post - marketing experience with benazepril , there have been rare reports of Stevens - Johnson syndrome , pancreatitis , hemolytic anemia , pemphigus , and thrombo - cytopenia .
Another potentially important adverse experience , eosinophilic pneumonitis , has been attributed to other ACE inhibitors .
Hydrochlorothiazidehas been extensively prescribed for many years , but there has not been enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of the frequency of the observed adverse reactions .
Within organ - system groups , the reported reactions are listed here in decreasing order of severity , without regard to frequency .
Unknown frequency : small bowel angioedema , anaphylactoid reactions , hyperkalemia , agranulocytosis , neutropenia .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic hypotension ( may be potentiated by alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics ) .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic ) ( see WARNINGS ) , sialadenitis , vomiting , diarrhea , cramping , nausea , gastric irritation , constipation , and anorexia .
Neurologic : Vertigo , lightheadedness , transient blurred vision , headache , paresthesia , xanthopsia , weakness , and restlessness .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , and thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , and hyperuricemia .
Hypersensitivity : Necrotizing angiitis , respiratory distress ( including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema ) , purpura , urticaria , rash , and photosensitivity .
Skin : Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Electrolytes : SeePRECAUTIONS .
Creatinine : Minor reversible increases in serum creatinine were observed in patients with essential hypertension treated with Lotensin HCT .
Such increases occurred most frequently in patients with renal artery stenosis ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PBI and Tests of Parathyroid Function : SeePRECAUTIONS .
Other ( Causal Relationships Unknown ) : Other clinically important changes in standard laboratory tests were rarely associated with Lotensin HCT administration .
Elevations in blood urea nitrogen , uric acid , glucose , SGOT , and SGPT have been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
In the somewhat larger patient population exposed to benazepril monotherapy in U . S . trials , the same abnormalities were reported , together with scattered accounts of hyponatremia , melena , electrocardiographic changes , leukopenia , eosinophilia , and proteinuria .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with Lotensin HCT ; treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Therapy with Lotensin HCT should be discontinued , and the patient should be observed .
Dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , and hypotension should be treated by established procedures .
Single oral doses of 1 g / kg of benazepril caused reduced activity in mice , and doses of 3 g / kg were associated with significant lethality .
Reduction of activity in rats was not seen until they had received doses of 5 g / kg , and doses of 6 g / kg were not lethal .
In single - dose studies of hydrochlorothiazide , most rats survived doses up to 2 . 75 g / kg .
Data from human overdoses of benazepril are scanty , but the most common manifestation of human benazepril overdosage is likely to be hypotension .
In human hydrochlorothiazide overdose , the most common signs and symptoms observed have been those of dehydration and electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of benazepril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of benazepril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of benazepril and its metabolites .
Benazeprilat is only slightly dialyzable , but dialysis might be considered in overdosed patients with severely impaired renal function ( see WARNINGS ) .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of benazepril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of benazepril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat benazepril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Benazepril is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 10 - 80 mg , while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 - 50 mg per day .
In clinical trials of benazepril / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using benazepril doses of 5 - 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6 . 25 - 25 mg , the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of either component .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of benazepril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects , but regimens in which benazepril is combined with low doses of hydrochlorothiazide produce minimal effects on serum potassium .
In clinical trials of Lotensin HCT , the average change in serum potassium was near zero in subjects who received 5 / 6 . 25 mg or 20 / 12 . 5 mg , but the average subject who received 10 / 12 . 5 mg or 20 / 25 mg experienced a mild reduction in serum potassium , similar to that experienced by the average subject receiving the same dose of hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect : A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with benazepril monotherapy may be switched to Lotensin HCT 10 / 12 . 5 or Lotensin HCT 20 / 12 . 5 .
Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response .
The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 - 3 weeks have elapsed .
Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide , but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen , may achieve similar blood - pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to Lotensin HCT 5 / 6 . 25 .
Replacement Therapy : The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components .
Use in Renal Impairment : Regimens of therapy with Lotensin HCT need not take account of renal function as long as the patient ’ s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( serum creatinine roughly ≤ 3 mg / dL or 265 µmol / L ) .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so Lotensin HCT is not recommended ( see WARNINGS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Lotensin HCT is available in tablets of four different strengths : Benazepril Hydrochlorothiazide Tablet Color Dose Tablet Imprint Bottle of NDC Number 20 mg 12 . 5 mg grayish - violet 20 / 12 . 5 74 10 ' s 54868 - 4904 - 1 30 ' s 54868 - 4904 - 0 20 mg 25 mg red 20 / 25 75 10 ' s 54868 - 5313 - 1 30 ' s 54868 - 5313 - 0 Tablets are oblong and scored , with “ Lotensin HCT ” on one side and appropriate number imprinted on the other side .
Storage : Do not store above 30ºC ( 86ºF ) .
Protect from moisture and light .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container ( USP ) .
Manufactured by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation Suffern , New York 10901 Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2012 - 46 January 2012 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label Rx Only Lotensin HCT ® 20 / 12 . 5 benazepril HCl 20 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP 12 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label Rx Only Lotensin HCT ® 20 / 25 benazepril HCl 20 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
