1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Durezol ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % , a topical corticosteroid , is indicated for the treatment of inflammation and pain associated with ocular surgery .
Durezol is a topical corticosteroid that is indicated for the treatment of inflammation and pain associated with ocular surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye ( s ) 4 times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period , followed by 2 times daily for a week and then a taper based on the response .
Instill one drop into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye ( s ) 4 times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period , followed by 2 times daily for a week and then a taper based on the response .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE STRENGTHS Durezol contains 0 . 05 % difluprednate as a sterile preserved emulsion for topical ophthalmic administration .
Durezol contains 0 . 05 % difluprednate , as a sterile preserved ophthalmic emulsion for topical ophthalmic use only .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Durezol , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most active viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal disease of ocular structures .
Durezol , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most active viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Intraocular pressure ( IOP ) increase - Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored .
( 5 . 1 ) .
• Cataracts - Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed healing - The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 28 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
( 5 . 3 ) • Bacterial infections - Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
( 5 . 4 ) • Viral infections - Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
( 5 . 5 ) • Fungal infections - Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 IOP Increase Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored .
5 . 2 Cataracts Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Healing The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 28 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 4 Bacterial Infections Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
5 . 5 Viral Infections Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
5 . 6 Fungal Infections Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal culture should be taken when appropriate .
5 . 7 Topical ophthalmic use only Durezol is not indicated for intraocular administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids include elevated intraocular pressure , which may be associated with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera .
Ocular adverse reactions occurring in 5 - 15 % of subjects in clinical studies with Durezol included corneal edema , ciliary and conjunctival hyperemia , eye pain , photophobia , posterior capsule opacification , anterior chamber cells , anterior chamber _ are , conjunctival edema , and blepharitis .
Other ocular adverse reactions occurring in 1 - 5 % of subjects included reduced visual acuity , punctate keratitis , eye inflammation , and iritis .
Ocular adverse events occurring in < 1 % of subjects included application site discomfort or irritation , corneal pigmentation and striae , episcleritis , eye pruritis , eyelid irritation and crusting , foreign body sensation , increased lacrimation , macular edema , scleral hyperemia , and uveitis .
Most of these events may have been the consequence of the surgical procedure .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Alcon Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 757 - 9195 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Difluprednate has been shown to be embryotoxic ( decrease in embryonic body weight and a delay in embryonic ossification ) and teratogenic ( cleft palate and skeletal ) anomalies when administered subcutaneously to rabbits during organogenesis at a dose of 1 - 10 μg / kg / day .
The no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) for these effects was 1 μg / kg / day , and 10 μg / kg / day was considered to be a teratogenic dose that was concurrently found in the toxic dose range for fetuses and pregnant females .
Treatment of rats with 10 μg / kg / day subcutaneously during organogenesis did not result in any reproductive toxicity , nor was it maternally toxic .
At 100 μg / kg / day after subcutaneous administration in rats , there was a decrease in fetal weights and delay in ossification , and effects on weight gain in the pregnant females .
It is difficult to extrapolate these doses of difluprednate to maximum daily human doses of Durezol , since Durezol is administered topically with minimal systemic absorption , and difluprednate blood levels were not measured in the reproductive animal studies .
However , since use of difluprednate during human pregnancy has not been evaluated and cannot rule out the possibility of harm , Durezol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Caution should be exercised when Durezol is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Durezol ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % is a sterile , topical anti - inflammatory corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name is 6α , 9 difluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - acetate 17 - butyrate ( CAS number 23674 - 86 - 4 ) .
Difluprednate is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Difluprednate has a molecular weight of 508 . 56 , and the empirical formula is C27H34F2O7 .
Each mL contains : ACTIVE : difluprednate 0 . 5 mg ( 0 . 05 % ) ; INACTIVE : boric acid , castor oil , glycerin , polysorbate 80 , water for injection , sodium acetate , sodium EDTA , sodium hydroxide ( to adjust the pH to 5 . 2 to 5 . 8 ) .
The emulsion is essentially isotonic with a tonicity of 304 to 411 mOsm / kg .
PRESERVATIVE : sorbic acid 0 . 1 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents that may delay or slow healing .
They inhibit edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of in _ ammation such as prostaglandins and leukotreines by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Difluprednate is structurally similar to other corticosteroids .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Difluprednate undergoes deacetylation in vivo to 6α , 9 - difluoroprednisolone 17 - butyrate ( DFB ) , an active metabolite of difluprednate .
Clinical pharmacokinetic studies of difluprednate after repeat ocular instillation of 2 drops of difluprednate ( 0 . 01 % or 0 . 05 % ) QID for 7 days showed that DFB levels in blood were below the quantification limit ( 50 ng / mL ) at all time points for all subjects , indicating the systemic absorption of difluprednate after ocular instillation of Durezol is limited .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Difluprednate was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames test , and in cultured mammalian cells CHL / IU ( a fibroblastic cell line derived from the lungs of newborn female Chinese hamsters ) .
An in vivo micronucleus test of difluprednate in mice was also negative .
Treatment of male and female rats with subcutaneous difluprednate up to 10 μg / kg / day prior to and during mating did not impair fertility in either gender .
Long term studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of difluprednate .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In multiple studies performed in rodents and non - rodents , subchronic and chronic toxicity tests of difluprednate showed systemic effects such as suppression of body weight gain ; a decrease in lymphocyte count ; atrophy of the lymphatic glands and adrenal gland ; and for local effects , thinning of the skin ; all of which were due to the pharmacologic action of the molecule and are well known glucocorticosteroid effects .
Most , if not all of these effects were reversible after drug withdrawal .
The NOEL for the subchronic and chronic toxicity tests were consistent between species and ranged from 1 - 1 . 25 μg / kg per day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Postoperative Ocular Inflammation and Pain Clinical efficacy was evaluated in 2 randomized , double - masked , placebo - controlled trials in which subjects with an anterior chamber cell grade ≥ " 2 " ( a cell count of 11 or higher ) after cataract surgery were assigned to Durezol or placebo ( vehicle ) following surgery .
One drop of Durezol or vehicle was self instilled either 2 ( BID ) or 4 ( QID ) times per day for 14 days , beginning the day after surgery .
The presence of complete clearing ( a cell count of 0 ) was assessed 8 and 15 days post - surgery using a slit lamp binocular microscope .
In the intent - to - treat analyses of both studies , a signifocant benefit was seen in the QID Durezol - treated group in ocular inflammation and reduction of pain when compared with placebo .
The consolidated clinical trial results are provided below .
Ocular Inflammation and Pain Endpoints ( Studies Pooled ) Durezol QID N = 107 Vehicle N = 220 Day 8 15 8 15 Anterior Chamber cell clearing ( % subjects ) 24 ( 22 % ) * 44 ( 41 % ) * 17 ( 7 % ) 25 ( 11 % ) Pain free ( % subjects ) 62 ( 58 % ) * 67 ( 63 % ) * 59 ( 27 % ) 76 ( 35 % ) * Statistically significantly better than vehicle , p < 0 . 01 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Durezol ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % is a sterile , aqueous topical ophthalmic emulsion supplied in an opaque plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip and a pink cap in the following size : 5 mL in a 5 mL bottle NDC 54868 - 6296 - 0 .
Storage Store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
When not in use keep the bottles in the protective carton .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION This product is sterile when packaged .
Patients should be advised not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the emulsion .
If pain develops or if redness , itching , or inflammation becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to consult a physician .
As with all ophthalmic preparations containing a preservative , patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses when using Durezol .
Revised : August 2010 U . S . Patent : 6 , 114 , 319 © 2010 Alcon , Inc . ® Manufactured for : ALCON ® Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
6201 South Freeway Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA 1 - 800 - 757 - 9195 MedInfo @ AlconLabs . com Manufactured By : Catalent Pharma Solutions Woodstock , IL 60098 9005602 - 0810 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 54868 - 6296 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only DUREZOL ® ( difluprednate ophthalmic Emulsion ) 0 . 05 % Alcon ® 5 mL Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ]
