Active ingredients Camphor 10 % Menthol 10 . 28 % Methyl salicylate 15 . 43 % Purpose External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions Do not use on wounds on irritated or damaged skin if pregnant otherwise than as directed When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days excessive irritation of the skin develops nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs when using for pain of arthritis : pain persists for more than 10 days redness is present in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 3 years of age and older : clean and dry the skin and apply the patch to the affected area not than 3 to 4 times daily .
Each patch is effective for 2 - 3 days .
children under 3 years of age : consult your physician .
refer to the above warnings ; use otherwise than as directed may be dangerous .
Other information for unused patches remaining in the pouch , re - seal securely store at room temperature Inactive ingredientsCinnamon , clove extract , drynaria root and stem , fang feng root , fragrant angelica root , frankincense resin , geranium ( Geranium wilfordii Maxim ) stem , leaf , and fruit , glycerol ester of rosin gum , gotu kola herb , greater galangal root and stem , kaolin , lanolin , lithopone ( mixture of barium sulfate , zinc sulfide , and trace zinc oxide ) , mineral oil , myrrh , oriental sweet gum ( Liquidambar orientalis Mill . )
resin , paraffin , periploca sepium ( Periploca sepium Bunge ) bark , petrolatum , schizonepeta [ Schizonepeta tenuifolia ( Benth . )
Briq . ]
stem and leaf , on a rubberized fabric backing covered with a protective paper sheet .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm you may also report serious side effects to thi phone number SHANGHAI SHANG SHI ZHI TONG GAO Pain Relieving Patch External Analgesic NDC 22742 - 003 - 01 6 Patches in 3 Pouches Each Patch 2 . 75 in x 3 . 94 in ( 7 cm x 10 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
