Active Ingredients Avoebenzone 1 . 6 % , Homosalate 4 . 0 % , Octocrylene 4 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin again caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or store at tremperatures above 120 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Posion Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics .
Directions Shake well .
hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply .
spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
do not apply in windy conditions .
use in well - ventialated area .
repply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , immediately after towel drying , at least every 2 hours .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . , wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Fragrance , Tocopheryl Acetate Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 800 SafeSun , Mon - Fri BANANA BOAT ULTRA SPORT CLEAR SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 15 CLINICALLY PROVEN UVA / UVB PROTECTION SUPERIOR ENDURANCE VS . SWEAT & WATER Breathable Formula Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
