Warnings For external use only Flammable until dry , keep away from extreme heat or open flame When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth .
If contact occurs flush throughly with water .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Treatment Pads Uses For the treatment of acne .
Clears acne pimples , blackheads , whiteheads and acne blemishes .
Allows skin to heal .
Helps prevent new acne pimples , blackheads , whiteheads and acne blemishes .
Directions Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
Gently wipe the entire affected area 1 to 3 times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other Information Store in a dry , cool place but do not freeze .
Keep jar tightly closed Inactive Ingredients Anthemis Nobilis ( Chamomile ) Flower Extract , Benzyl Alcohol , Butylene Glycol , Caprylic / Capric Triglycerides , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis Peel Oil , Citrus Grandis Peel Oil , Citrus Reticulata Peel Oil , Disodium EDTA , Ethanol , Ethoxydiglycol , FD & C Blue # 1 , Glycerin , Polysorbate 80 , Sodium Hydroxide , Trans Resveratrol , Water , Xanthan Gum Questions or comments ?
INK Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
PO Box 26730 , Overland Park , KS 66225 , USA www . acneBLU . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 Pad Jar Label Clears & Prevents Acne and Acne Blemishes Calms and Moisturizes the Skin acne ® BLU Maximum Strength Salicylic Acid & Resveratrol Acne Fighting & Preventing Pads Formulated and Tested by Dermatologists 90 pads [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
