[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XEGLYZE is indicated for the topical treatment of head lice infestation in patients 6 months of age and older .
XEGLYZE should be used in the context of an overall lice management program : • Wash ( with hot water ) or dry - clean all recently worn clothing , hats , used bedding and towels • Wash personal care items such as combs , brushes , and hair clips in hot water Use a fine - tooth comb or special nit comb to remove dead lice and nits XEGLYZE is a pediculicide indicated for the topical treatment of head lice infestation in patients 6 months of age and older .
XEGLYZE should be used in the context of an overall lice management program : • Wash ( with hot water ) or dry - clean all recently worn clothing , hats , used bedding and towels • Wash personal care items such as combs , brushes and hair clips in hot water • Use a fine - tooth comb or special nit comb to remove dead lice and nits ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
XEGLYZE is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Treatment with XEGLYZE involves a single application .
Shake well before use .
Apply XEGLYZE to dry hair in an amount ( up to the full content of one bottle ) sufficient to thoroughly coat the hair and scalp .
Massage XEGLYZE into the scalp and throughout the hair .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Leave on the hair and scalp for 10 minutes and then rinse off with warm water .
Wash hands after application .
Hair may be shampooed any time after the treatment .
Discard any unused product .
Do not flush contents down sink or toilet .
• For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Shake well before use .
( 2 ) • Apply XEGLYZE to dry hair in an amount sufficient ( up to the full content of one bottle ) to thoroughly coat the hair and scalp .
Avoid contact with eyes .
( 2 ) • Massage XEGLYZE into the scalp and throughout the hair ; leave on the hair and scalp for 10 minutes and then rinse off with warm water .
( 2 ) • Massage XEGLYZE into the scalp and throughout the hair ; leave on the hair and scalp for 10 minutes and then rinse off with warm water .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Lotion , 0 . 74 % [ weight by weight ] , a viscous white to off - white oil in water emulsion , containing abametapir .
Lotion : 0 . 74 % [ weight by weight ] .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of Neonatal Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity : Systemic exposure to benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse reactions and death in neonates and low birth - weight infants .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
Use is not recommended in pediatric patients under 6 months of age because of the potential for increased systemic absorption .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk of Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity from Accidental Ingestion : Administer only under direct supervision of an adult .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Neonatal Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity XEGLYZE contains benzyl alcohol .
Systemic exposure to benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious and fatal adverse reactions including “ gasping syndrome ” in neonates and low birth weight infants .
The “ gasping syndrome ” is characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , and gasping respirations .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of XEGLYZE have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months .
Use is not recommended in pediatric patients under 6 months of age because of the potential for increased systemic absorption .
5 . 2 Risk of Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity from Accidental Ingestion In order to prevent accidental ingestion in pediatric patients , XEGLYZE should only be administered under direct supervision of an adult .
Ingestion of benzyl alcohol in large quantities may result in gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) and central nervous system ( headache , ataxia , convulsions , coma ) adverse reactions .
Serious adverse reactions may include respiratory depression and death .
If accidentally swallowed , advise the patient or the caregiver to call their Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence of ≥ 1 % ) were erythema , rash , skin burning sensation , contact dermatitis , vomiting , eye irritation , pruritus , and hair color changes .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories .
Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 966 - 8766 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug , and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to a single 10 - minute treatment of XEGLYZE in 349 subjects ( 6 months of age and older ) with head lice infestation in randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials ( Trials 1 and 2 ) .
Of these subjects , 21 were 6 months to 4 years of age , 166 subjects were 4 to 12 years of age , 57 subjects were 12 to 18 years of age , and 105 subjects were 18 years of age or older .
Table 1 provides adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects in the XEGLYZE group and at a greater frequency than in the vehicle group .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of the XEGLYZE Group and at a Greater Frequency than in the Vehicle Group ( Trials 1 and 2 ) Adverse Reactions XEGLYZE N = 349 Subjects ( % ) Vehicle N = 350 Subjects ( % ) Erythema 14 ( 4 . 0 ) 6 ( 2 ) Rash 11 ( 3 . 2 ) 8 ( 2 . 3 ) Skin burning sensation 9 ( 2 . 6 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Contact dermatitis 6 ( 1 . 7 ) 4 ( 1 . 1 ) Vomiting 6 ( 1 . 7 ) 2 ( 0 . 6 ) Eye irritation 4 ( 1 . 2 ) 2 ( 0 . 6 ) Hair color changes 3 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) During the trials , subjects were monitored for new onset of scalp erythema / edema , scalp pruritus , and eye irritation .
The number and percentage of subjects who developed these local adverse reactions after treatment are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Monitored Local Adverse Reactions with New Onset on Day 1 Post - Treatment ( Trials 1 and 2 ) Adverse Reactions XEGLYZE Subjects ( % ) * Vehicle Subjects ( % ) * Scalp Erythema / Edema 11 ( 3 . 2 ) 5 ( 1 . 4 ) Scalp Pruritus 2 ( 1 . 4 ) 1 ( 0 . 7 ) Eye Irritation 6 ( 1 . 7 ) 5 ( 1 . 4 ) * For the calculation of the percentages , the denominators are the number of subjects who did not have the monitored local adverse reaction at baseline .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro studies suggest there is a potential for inhibition of cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 , 2B6 and 1A2 enzymes following a single application of XEGLYZE .
Use of XEGLYZE with drugs that are substrates of these enzymes may lead to increased systemic concentrations of the interacting drugs .
Avoid administration of drugs that are substrates of CYP3A4 , CYP2B6 , or CYP1A2 within 2 weeks after application of XEGLYZE .
If this is not feasible , avoid use of XEGLYZE [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For 2 weeks after XEGLYZE application , avoid taking drugs that are substrates of CYP3A4 , CYP2B6 or CYP1A2 .
Otherwise , avoid use of XEGLYZE .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on XEGLYZE use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In embryofetal development studies conducted with oral administration of abametapir during organogenesis , no evidence of fetal harm or malformations , independent of maternal toxicity were observed in pregnant rats and rabbits at doses that produced exposures up to 50 times and equivalent to the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in rats and rabbits , respectively .
The highest dose evaluated in rabbits was limited due to maternal toxicity associated with the vehicle used in the study ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Systemic embryofetal development studies were performed in rats and rabbits .
Oral doses of 10 , 25 and 75 mg / kg / day abametapir were administered during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 – 17 ) to pregnant rats .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , embryofetal toxicity ( lower fetal body weights and delayed ossification ) was noted at 75 mg / kg / day .
No treatment related effects on malformations were noted at 75 mg / kg / day ( 50 times the MRHD based on Cmax comparisons ) .
Oral doses of 4 , 16 and 40 mg / kg / day abametapir were administered during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 – 19 ) to pregnant rabbits .
No treatment related effects on embryofetal toxicity or malformations were noted at 40 mg / kg / day ( ~ 1 time the MRHD based on Cmax comparisons ) .
Maternal toxicity related to the vehicle limited the maximum dose in pregnant rabbits .
In a perinatal and postnatal development study in rats , oral doses of 10 , 25 and 75 mg / kg / day were administered from the beginning of organogenesis ( gestational day 6 ) through the end of lactation ( lactation day 20 ) .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , embryofetal lethality , and decreased fetal body weight gain were noted at 75 mg / kg / day .
No treatment related effects on postnatal development were noted at 75 mg / kg / day ( 47 times the MRHD based on Cmax comparisons ) .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Risk Summary No data are available regarding the presence of abametapir in human milk or the effects of abametapir on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for XEGLYZE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from XEGLYZE or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of XEGLYZE have been established in pediatric patients 6 months of age and older [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of XEGLYZE have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months .
XEGLYZE is not recommended in pediatric patients under 6 months of age because of the potential for increased systemic absorption due to a high ratio of skin surface to body mass and the potential for an immature skin barrier .
XEGLYZE contains benzyl alcohol .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse reactions and death in neonates and low birth - weight infants .
The “ gasping syndrome ” ( characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , gasping respirations , and high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine ) has been associated with intravenously administered benzyl alcohol dosages > 99 mg / kg / day in neonates and low birthweight infants .
Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birthweight infants , as well as patients receiving high dosages , may be more likely to develop toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Because of the risk of accidental ingestion , XEGLYZE should be administered to pediatric patients only under direct adult supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of XEGLYZE did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE If accidentally swallowed , advise patients to seek medical advice immediately and to call their local Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
11 DESCRIPTION The active pharmacological ingredient in XEGLYZE ( abametapir ) Lotion is the pediculicide , abametapir , which is a dipyridyl compound .
The chemical name of abametapir is 5 , 5 ' - dimethyl - 2 , 2 ' - bipyridinyl .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C12H12N2 and the molecular weight is 184 . 24 .
XEGLYZE is a white to off - white oil in water emulsion , containing 0 . 74 % [ weight by weight ] of abametapir , intended for topical administration .
XEGLYZE contains the following inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol 2 . 0 % , butylated hydroxytoluene , Carbomer Homopolymer Type C , light mineral oil , polysorbate 20 , trolamine and water .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Abametapir ( 5 , 5 ’ - dimethyl 2 , 2 ’ - bipyridinyl ) is a metalloproteinase inhibitor .
Metalloproteinases have a role in physiological processes critical to egg development and survival of lice .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of XEGLYZE were evaluated in 3 trials , Trials A , B , and C . Each trial enrolled lice infested subjects who received a single 10 - minute application of XEGLYZE .
Pharmacokinetic samplings were carried out to 72 hours post - dose in adults and 8 hours post - dose in pediatric subjects in all trials .
Trial A evaluated pharmacokinetics in 6 adult and 12 pediatric subjects 3 to 12 years of age .
The mean ( % CV ) abametapir plasma maximum concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration time curve from 0 to 8 hours post - dose ( AUC0 - 8 h ) in the adult group were 41 ( 66 % ) ng / mL and 121 ( 50 % ) ng * h / mL , respectively .
The mean ( % CV ) Cmax and AUC0 - 8 h in the pediatric group were 73 ( 57 % ) ng / mL and 264 ( 62 % ) ng * h / mL , respectively .
The mean ( % CV ) terminal half - life in adults was 21 ( 11 % ) hours .
Trials B and C evaluated pharmacokinetics in 50 pediatric subjects 6 months to 17 years old .
The pharmacokinetic results for plasma abametapir are shown in Table 3 .
Even though the values varied between the 2 trials , abametapir exposure increased as the age of the subject decreased .
Abametapir absorption was rapid with a median Tmax of 0 . 57 to 1 . 54 hours .
Table 3 Abametapir Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Subjects with Head Lice Infestation Study Age Group n Cmax ( ng / mL ) Mean ( % CV ) AUC0 - 8 h ( ng * h / mL ) Mean ( % CV ) B 6 months to < 1 year 1 418 1057 C 5 228 ( 50 % ) 688 ( 43 % ) B 1 year to < 2 years 3 209 ( 62 % ) 446 ( 65 % ) C 8 147 ( 49 % ) 406 ( 37 % ) B 2 years to < 3 years 6 206 ( 66 % ) 633 ( 57 % ) C 8 160 ( 48 % ) 602 ( 51 % ) B 3 years to 17 years 12 121 ( 60 % ) 330 ( 49 % ) C 7 52 ( 45 % ) 194 ( 39 % ) Serum concentration of benzyl alcohol , an excipient in the formulation of XEGLYZE , was assessed in Trials B and C . Benzyl alcohol in serum was measurable ( limit of quantitation = 0 . 5 µg / mL ) in 7 subjects out of 39 evaluable subjects .
The Cmax of benzyl alcohol in these 7 subjects ranged from 0 . 52 to 3 . 57 µg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Distribution Abametapir and its primary human metabolite , abametapir carboxyl , are highly bound to proteins in plasma .
Abametapir is 91 . 3 – 92 . 3 % bound to plasma proteins , and abametapir carboxyl is 96 . 0 % – 97 . 5 % bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism Abametapir is extensively metabolized , primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP1A2 to a mono - hydroxylated metabolite ( abametapir hydroxyl ) and further to a mono - carboxylated metabolite ( abametapir carboxyl ) .
Abametapir carboxyl is cleared slowly from the systemic circulation resulting in plasma concentration higher than that of abametapir .
Based on data in adults in Trial A above , where sampling was carried out to 72 hours , the ratios of Cmax and AUC0 - 72 h between abametapir carboxyl and abametapir were about 30 and 250 , respectively .
The elimination half - life of abametapir carboxyl has not been well characterized but is estimated to be approximately ( mean ± SD ) 71 ± 40 hours or longer in adults .
Excretion Excretion of abametapir and its human metabolites was not examined in patients .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies suggest that there is a potential for inhibition of cytochrome P450 3A4 , 2B6 , and 1A2 enzymes following application of XEGLYZE due to high and prolonged systemic exposure of the metabolite abametapir carboxyl [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of XEGLYZE or abametapir .
Abametapir was not mutagenic or clastogenic based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames test and human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( rat micronucleus assay ) .
No effects on fertility have been observed in rats following repeated oral doses of up to 75 mg / kg / dayabametapir ( 50 times the MRHD based on Cmax comparisons ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two identical multi - center , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials ( Trials 1 and 2 ) were conducted in 704 subjects 6 months of age and older with head lice infestation .
All subjects received a single application of either XEGLYZE or vehicle control .
For the evaluation of efficacy , the youngest subject from each household was considered to be the index subject of the household ( N = 216 ) .
Other enrolled infested household members received the same treatment as the youngest subject and were evaluated for all efficacy and safety parameters .
Index subjects ranged from 6 months to 49 years of age ( mean 7 years ) , and approximately 85 % of the index subjects were female , and 95 % of the index subjects were Caucasian .
Efficacy was assessed as the proportion of index subjects who were treated with a single 10 - minute application and were free of live lice at all follow - up visits on Days 1 , 7 , and 14 .
Subjects with live lice at any time up to the final evaluation were considered treatment failures .
Table 4 presents the proportion of subjects who were free of live lice at all visits Day 1 through Day 14 in Trials 1 and 2 .
Table 4 : Proportion of Index Subjects Free of Live Lice at All Visits Days 1 Through 14 After Treatment Trial 1 Trial 2 XEGLYZE ( N = 53 ) Vehicle ( N = 55 ) XEGLYZE ( N = 55 ) Vehicle ( N = 53 ) Treatment Success 43 ( 81 . 1 % ) 28 ( 50 . 9 % ) 45 ( 81 . 8 % ) 25 ( 47 . 2 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING XEGLYZE is a white to off - white oil in water emulsion containing 0 . 74 % [ weight by weight ] abametapir and supplied in a polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) safety - coated single - use round amber glass bottle affixed with a polypropylene child resistant cap ( NDC # 43598 - 921 - 11 ) featuring a tri - foil inner liner .
The container is filled to a nominal 200 g ( approximately 7 oz .
or 210 mL ) of the lotion .
Store upright at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate or freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Inform the patient and caregiver of the following instructions : • Do not ingest XEGLYZE .
• Keep out of reach of children .
Use on children should be under the direct supervision of an adult because of the risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• Avoid contact with eyes .
• Wash hands after application .
• Hair may be shampooed any time after the treatment .
• Treatment with XEGLYZE involves a single application .
Do not re - treat .
• Discard any unused portion .
Do not flush contents down sink or toilet .
Manufactured by Groupe Parima Inc . , for Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , S . A . Elisabethenanlage 11 , 4051 Basel , Switzerland Distributed by Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc . , 107 College Road East , Princeton , NJ 08540 XeglyzeTM is a registered trademark of Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , S . A . Issued : 01 / 2022 Manufactured by Groupe Parima Inc . , for Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , S . A . Elisabethenanlage 11 , 4051 Basel , Switzerland Distributed by Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc . , 107 College Road East , Princeton , NJ 08540 XEGLYZETM is a registered trademark of Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , S . A . Issued : 01 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION XEGLYZE ( zeg ’ lyze ) ( abametapir ) Lotion Important : XEGLYZE is for use on scalp hair and scalp only .
Do not use XEGLYZE in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is XEGLYZE ?
XEGLYZE is a prescription medicine used to get rid of head lice in people 6 months of age and older .
After XEGLYZE is rinsed off , a fine - tooth comb may be used to remove dead lice and nits from the hair and scalp .
All personal items exposed to the hair or lice should be washed in hot water or dry - cleaned .
See “ How do I stop the spread of lice ? ”
at the end of the XEGLYZE Instructions for Use .
It is not known if XEGLYZE is safe and effective in children under 6 months of age .
Before you use XEGLYZE , tell your healthcare provider if you or your child : • have any skin conditions or sensitivities • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if XEGLYZE can harm your unborn baby • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if XEGLYZE passes into your breast milk .
How should I use XEGLYZE ?
See the “ Instructions for Use ” for detailed information about the right way to apply XEGLYZE .
• Use XEGLYZE exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe the treatment that is right for you .
Do not change your treatment without talking to your healthcare provider .
• Use XEGLYZE on dry hair .
• Completely cover all of your hair and scalp with XEGLYZE .
• Children will need an adult to apply XEGLYZE for them .
• Do not swallow XEGLYZE .
If swallowed , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
• Do not get XEGLYZE into your eyes .
If XEGLYZE gets in your eye , gently flush with water .
Wash your hands after you apply XEGLYZE .
• You may shampoo your hair any time after the treatment .
• When you complete your dose of XEGLYZE , do not use XEGLYZE again .
Throw away any unused XEGLYZE .
Do not flush XEGLYZE down sink or toilet .
What are the possible side effects of XEGLYZE ?
The most common side effects of XEGLYZE include : • Redness of the skin or scalp • Rash • Burning sensation of the skin • Skin irritation • Vomiting • Eye irritation • Itchy scalp • Changes in your hair color Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of XEGLYZE .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store XEGLYZE ?
• Store upright at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Do not refrigerate or freeze XEGLYZE .
• Discard ( throw away ) any unused product .
Keep XEGLYZE and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of XEGLYZE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use XEGLYZE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give XEGLYZE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can also ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about XEGLYZE that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in XEGLYZE ?
Active ingredient : abametapir Inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol 2 . 0 % , butylated hydroxytoluene , carbomer homopolymer type C , light mineral oil , polysorbate 20 , trolamine and water .
Manufactured by Groupe Parima , Inc . , for Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , S . A . Elisabethenanlage 11 , 4051 Basel , Switzerland XEGLYZE is a registered trademark of Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , S . A . Distributed by Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories , Inc . , 107 College Road East , Princeton , NJ 08540 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 01 / 2022 Instructions for Use XEGLYZE ( zeg ' lyze ) ( abametapir ) Lotion Important : XEGLYZE is for use on scalp hair and scalp only .
Do not use XEGLYZE in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Before you use XEGLYZE , it is important that you read the Patient Information and Instructions for Use .
Be sure that you read , understand , and follow these Instructions for Use so that you use XEGLYZE the right way .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have questions about the right way to use XEGLYZE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Your hair and scalp must be dry before you apply XEGLYZE .
Shake XEGLYZE bottle well right before use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Remove the cap and apply XEGLYZE directly to dry hair and scalp .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Completely cover your scalp and hair closest to the scalp first , and then apply outwards towards the ends of your hair .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Rub XEGLYZE throughout your hair and scalp .
Use enough XEGLYZE to completely cover your entire scalp and all of your hair so that all lice and eggs are exposed to the lotion .
You may need to use the full bottle .
Be sure that each hair is coated from the scalp to the tip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Leave XEGLYZE on your hair and scalp for 10 minutes after it has been applied .
Use a timer or clock .
Start timing after you have completely covered your hair and scalp with XEGLYZE .
You or anyone who helps you apply XEGLYZE should wash their hands after application .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : After 10 minutes , rinse XEGLYZE from your hair and scalp with warm water .
A fine - tooth comb or special nit comb may be used to remove dead lice and nits .
You may shampoo your hair any time after the treatment .
How do I stop the spread of lice ?
To help prevent the spread of lice from one person to another , here are some steps you can take : • Avoid direct head - to - head contact with anyone known to have live , crawling lice .
• Do not share combs , brushes , hats , scarves , bandannas , ribbons , barrettes , hair bands , towels , helmets , or other hair - related personal items with anyone else , whether they have lice or not .
• Disinfect combs and brushes used by an infected person by soaking them in hot water ( at least 130 ° F ) for 5 to 10 minutes .
• Avoid sleepovers and slumber parties during lice outbreaks .
Lice can live in bedding , pillows , and carpets that have recently been used by someone with lice .
• Machine wash and dry clothing , bed linens , and other items used by anyone having lice .
Machine wash at high temperatures ( 130 ° F ) and the high heat drying cycle .
Clothing and items that are not washable can be dry - cleaned OR sealed in a plastic bag and stored for 2 weeks .
These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 01 / 2022 CONTAINER LABEL NDC 43598 - 921 - 11 Xeglyze ( abametapir ) Lotion , 0 . 74 % For topical use on the scalp hair and scalp only .
Rx only 200 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] CARTON LABEL NDC 43598 - 921 - 11 Xeglyze ( abametapir ) Lotion , 0 . 74 % For topical use on the scalp hair and scalp only .
Rx only 200 g [ MULTIMEDIA ]
