Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL = 1 teaspoonful ) Acetaminophen 160 mg Purpose Pain Reliever / Fever Reducer Uses To reduce fever and for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to : • headache • muscular aches • backache • minor pain of arthritis • the common cold • toothache • premenstrual and menstrual cramps .
Temporarily reduces fever .
Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 6 doses in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or non - prescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• if your child is allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if your child has • liver disease • is on a sodium - restricted diet .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if your child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product : Do not exceed recommended dose Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • new symptoms occur .
• redness or swelling is present .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose Warning : taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In case of overdose get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults / children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions • shake well before using • find the right dose on chart below , if possible , use weight to dose ; otherwise use age • dosage may be repeated every 4 hours , or as directed by your doctor • do not use more than 5 doses in 24 hours • do not use more than 5 days unless directed by a doctor .
Weight ( lbs . )
Age ( years ) dosage - teaspoonful ( tsp . )
under 24 under 2 consult Physician 24 - 35 2 to 3 1 tsp .
( 5 mL ) 36 - 47 4 to 5 1 1 / 2 tsp .
( 7 . 5 mL ) 48 - 59 6 to 8 2 tsp .
( 10 mL ) 60 - 71 9 to 10 2 1 / 2 tsp .
( 12 . 5 mL ) 72 - 95 11 to 12 3 tsp .
( 15 mL ) over 95 12 to adult 4 tsp .
( 20 mL ) Other information • Store at room temperature 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) • protect from freezing • protect from light • each teaspoon ( 5 mL ) contains : sodium 7 mg TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF BREAKAWAY BAND ON CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive Ingredients : citric acid , FD & C red # 40 , glycerin , PEG 400 , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol , water , art .
cherry flavor [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
