[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are a N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ’ s type .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is 7 mg once daily ; the dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg once daily ; the minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Patients with severe renal impairment : the recommended maintenance dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is 14 mg once daily .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The dosage of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules shown to be effective in a controlled clinical trial is 28 mg once daily .
The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is 7 mg once daily .
The dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg once daily .
The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week .
The dose should only be increased if the previous dose has been well tolerated .
The maximum recommended dose is 28 mg once daily .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules can be taken with or without food .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules can be taken intact or may be opened , sprinkled on applesauce , and thereby swallowed .
The entire contents of each memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule should be consumed ; the dose should not be divided .
Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce , as described above , memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should be swallowed whole .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should not be divided , chewed , or crushed .
If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , that patient should not double up on the next dose .
The next dose should be taken as scheduled .
If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for several days , dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above .
2 . 2 Switching from Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets to Memantine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules Patients treated with memantine hydrochloride tablets may be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules as follows : It is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 10 mg twice daily of memantine hydrochloride tablets be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 28 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 10 mg memantine hydrochloride tablets .
There is no study addressing the comparative efficacy of these 2 regimens .
In a patient with severe renal impairment , it is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 5 mg twice daily of memantine hydrochloride tablets be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 14 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 5 mg memantine hydrochloride tablets .
2 . 3 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL / min , based on the Cockcroft - Gault equation ) , the recommended maintenance dose ( and maximum recommended dose ) is 14 mg / day [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each capsule contains 7 mg , 14 mg , 21 mg , or 28 mg of memantine hydrochloride .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 7 mg , are flesh opaque cap and body , hard gelatin capsules , printed “ 7 MG ” on the cap and “ A242 ” on the body .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 14 mg , are flesh opaque cap and white opaque body , hard gelatin capsules , printed “ 14 MG ” on the cap and “ A264 ” on the body .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 21 mg , are pink opaque cap and body , hard gelatin capsules , printed “ 21 MG ” on the cap and “ A243 ” on the body .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 28 mg , are pink opaque cap and white opaque body , hard gelatin capsules , printed “ 28 MG ” on cap and “ A266 ” on the body .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are available as an extended - release capsule in the following strengths : 7 mg , 14 mg , 21 mg , 28 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Genitourinary Conditions Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly observed adverse reactions occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % and greater than placebo with administration of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 28 mg / day were headache , diarrhea and dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules were evaluated in a double - blind placebo - controlled trial in which a total of 676 patients with moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ’ s type ( 341 patients on memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 28 mg / day and 335 patients on placebo ) for a treatment period up to 24 weeks .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation In the placebo - controlled clinical trial of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , the proportion of patients in the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule group and the placebo group who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions was 10 % and 6 % , respectively .
The most common adverse reaction that led to treatment discontinuation in the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule group was dizziness at a rate of 1 . 5 % .
Most Common Adverse Reactions The most commonly observed adverse reactions seen in patients administered memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in the controlled clinical trial , defined as those occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % in the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule group and at a higher frequency than placebo were headache , diarrhea and dizziness .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions that were observed at an incidence of ≥ 2 % in the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule group and occurred at a rate greater than placebo .
• Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Observed with a Frequency of ≥ 2 % in the Memantine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsule Group and at a Rate Greater than Placebo Adverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 335 ) % Memantine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 28 mg ( n = 341 ) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea 4 5 Constipation 1 3 Abdominal pain 1 2 Vomiting 1 2 Infections and Infestations Influenza 3 4 Investigations Weight , increased 1 3 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back pain 1 3 Nervous System Disorders Headache 5 6 Dizziness 1 5 Somnolence 1 3 Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 3 4 Depression 1 3 Aggression 1 2 Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary incontinence 1 2 Vascular Disorders Hypertension 2 4 Hypotension 1 2 Seizure Memantine has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder .
In clinical trials of memantine , seizures occurred in 0 . 3 % of patients treated with memantine and 0 . 6 % of patients treated with placebo .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of memantine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions include : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : agranulocytosis , leukopenia ( including neutropenia ) , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura .
Cardiac Disorders : cardiac failure congestive .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : pancreatitis .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : hepatitis .
Psychiatric Disorders : suicidal ideation .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : acute renal failure ( including increased creatinine and renal insufficiency ) .
Skin Disorders : Stevens Johnson syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drugs That Make Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80 % under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8 .
Therefore , alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects .
Urine pH is altered by diet , drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) and clinical state of the patient ( e . g . renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract ) .
Hence , memantine should be used with caution under these conditions .
7 . 2 Use with Other N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) Antagonists The combined use of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules with other NMDA antagonists ( amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan ) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in pregnant women .
Adverse developmental effects ( decreased body weight and skeletal ossification ) were observed in the offspring of rats administered memantine during pregnancy at doses associated with minimal maternal toxicity .
These doses are higher than those used in humans at the maximum recommended daily dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of memantine ( 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day ) to rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in decreased skeletal ossification in fetuses at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose for adverse developmental effects ( 6 mg / kg ) is 2 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHD ) of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ( 28 mg ) on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
Oral administration of memantine to rabbits ( 0 , 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day ) during the period of organogenesis resulted in no adverse developmental effects .
The highest dose tested is approximately 20 times the MRHD of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules on a mg / m2 basis .
In rats , memantine ( 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day ) was administered orally prior to and throughout mating and , in females , through the period of organogenesis or continuing throughout lactation to weaning .
Decreased skeletal ossification in fetuses and decreased body weight in pups were observed at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose for adverse developmental effects ( 6 mg / kg / day ) is 2 times the MRHD of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules on a mg / m2 basis .
Oral administration of memantine ( 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day ) to rats from late gestation throughout lactation to weaning , resulted in decreased pup weights at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose ( 6 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 2 times the MRHD of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of memantine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Memantine failed to demonstrate efficacy in two 12 - week controlled clinical studies of 578 pediatric patients aged 6 - 12 years with autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) , including autism , Asperger ’ s disorder and Pervasive Development Disorder - Not Otherwise Specified ( PDD - NOS ) .
Memantine has not been studied in pediatric patients under 6 years of age or over 12 years of age .
Memantine treatment was initiated at 3 mg / day and the dose was escalated to the target dose ( weight - based ) by week 6 .
Oral doses of memantine 3 , 6 , 9 , or 15 mg extended - release capsules were administered once daily to patients with weights < 20 kg , 20 - 39 kg , 40 - 59 kg and ≥ 60 kg , respectively .
In a randomized , 12 - week double - blind , placebo - controlled parallel study ( Study A ) in patients with autism , there was no statistically significant difference in the Social Responsiveness Scale ( SRS ) total raw score between patients randomized to memantine ( n = 54 ) and those randomized to placebo ( n = 53 ) .
In a 12 - week responder - enriched randomized withdrawal study ( Study B ) in 471 patients with ASD , there was no statistically significant difference in the loss of therapeutic response rates between patients randomized to remain on full - dose memantine ( n = 153 ) and those randomized to switch to placebo ( n = 158 ) .
The overall safety profile of memantine in pediatric patients was generally consistent with the known safety profile in adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In Study A , the adverse reactions in the memantine group ( n = 56 ) that were reported in at least 5 % of patients and at least twice the frequency of the placebo group ( N = 58 ) are listed in Table 2 .
• Table 2 : Study A Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions with a Frequency ≥ 5 % and Twice That of Placebo Adverse Reaction Memantine N = 56 Placebo N = 58 Cough 8 . 9 % 3 . 4 % Influenza 7 . 1 % 3 . 4 % Rhinorrhea 5 . 4 % 0 % Agitation 5 . 4 % 1 . 7 % Discontinuations due to Adverse Reactionsa Aggression 3 . 6 % 1 . 7 % Irritability 1 . 8 % 3 . 4 % a Reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in more than one patient in either treatment group .
The adverse reactions that were reported in at least 5 % of patients in the 12 - 48 week open - label study to identify responders to enroll in Study B are listed in Table 3 .
• Table 3 : 12 - 48 Week Open Label Lead - In study to Study B Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions with a Frequency ≥ 5 % Adverse Reaction Memantine N = 903 Headache 8 . 0 % Nasopharyngitis 6 . 3 % Pyrexia 5 . 8 % Irritability 5 . 4 % Discontinuations due to Adverse Reactionsa Irritability 1 . 2 % Aggression 1 . 0 % a At least 1 % incidence of adverse reactions leading to premature discontinuation .
In the randomized withdrawal study ( Study B ) , the adverse reaction in patients randomized to placebo ( n = 160 ) and reported in at least 5 % of patients and twice that of the full - dose memantine treatment group ( n = 157 ) was irritability ( 5 . 0 % vs 2 . 5 % ) .
Juvenile Animal Study In a juvenile animal study , male and female juvenile rats were administered memantine ( 15 , 30 , and 45 mg / kg / day ) starting on postnatal day ( PND ) 14 through PND 70 .
Body weights were reduced at 45 mg / kg / day .
Delays in sexual maturation were noted in male and female rats at doses ≥ 30 mg / kg / day .
Memantine induced neuronal lesions in several areas of the brain on PND 15 and 17 at doses ≥ 30 mg / kg / day .
Behavioral toxicity ( decrease percent of auditory startle habituation ) was noted for animals in the 45 mg / kg / day dose group .
The 15 mg / kg / day dose was considered the No - Observed - Adverse - Effect - Level ( NOAEL ) for this study .
In a second juvenile rat toxicity study , male and female juvenile rats were administered memantine ( 1 , 3 , 8 , 15 , 30 , and 45 mg / kg / day ) starting on postnatal day ( PND ) 7 through PND 70 .
Due to early memantine - related mortality , the 30 and 45 mg / kg / day dose groups were terminated without further evaluation .
Memantine induced apoptosis or neuronal degeneration in several areas of the brain on PND 8 , 10 , and 17 at a dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
The NOAEL for apoptosis and neuronal degeneration was 8 mg / kg / day .
Behavioral toxicity ( effects on motor activity , auditory startle habituation , and learning and memory ) was noted at doses ≥ 3 mg / kg / day during treatment , but was not seen after drug discontinuation .
Therefore , the 1 mg / kg / day dose was considered the NOAEL for the neurobehavioral effect in this study .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The majority of people with Alzheimer ’ s disease are 65 years of age and older .
In the clinical study of memantine hydrochloride extended - release , the mean age of patients was approximately 77 years ; over 91 % of patients were 65 years and older , 67 % were 75 years and older , and 14 % were at or above 85 years of age .
The efficacy and safety data presented in the clinical trial sections were obtained from these patients .
There were no clinically meaningful differences in most adverse reactions reported by patient groups ≥ 65 years old and < 65 years old .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
A dosage reduction is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules were not studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms most often accompanying overdosage with other formulations of memantine in clinical trials and from worldwide marketing experience , alone or in combination with other drugs and / or alcohol , include agitation , asthenia , bradycardia , confusion , coma , dizziness , ECG changes , increased blood pressure , lethargy , loss of consciousness , psychosis , restlessness , slowed movement , somnolence , stupor , unsteady gait , visual hallucinations , vertigo , vomiting , and weakness .
The largest known ingestion of memantine worldwide was 2 grams in a patient who took memantine in conjunction with unspecified antidiabetic medications .
This patient experienced coma , diplopia , and agitation , but subsequently recovered .
One patient participating in a memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule clinical trial unintentionally took 112 mg of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules daily for 31 days and experienced an elevated serum uric acid , elevated serum alkaline phosphatase , and low platelet count .
Fatal outcome has been very rarely reported with memantine , and the relationship to memantine was unclear .
Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to contact a poison control center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
As in any cases of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized , and treatment should be symptomatic .
Elimination of memantine can be enhanced by acidification of urine .
11 DESCRIPTION Memantine hydrochloride USP is an orally active NMDA receptor antagonist .
The chemical name for memantine hydrochloride USP is 1 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethyladamantane hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C12H21N • HCl and the molecular weight is 215 . 76 .
Memantine hydrochloride USP occurs as a fine white to off - white powder and is soluble in water .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are supplied for oral administration as 7 mg , 14 mg , 21 mg , and 28 mg capsules .
Each capsule contains extended - release beads with the labeled amount of memantine hydrochloride USP and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , medium chain triglycerides , oleic acid , polyethylene glycol , sugar spheres and talc , in hard gelatin capsules ( containing gelatin , titanium dioxide and red iron oxide ) imprinted with black ink containing black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide ( 14 mg and 28 mg ) , propylene glycol , and shellac .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Persistent activation of central nervous system N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors by the excitatory amino acid glutamate has been hypothesized to contribute to the symptomatology of Alzheimer ’ s disease .
Memantine is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect through its action as a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive ( open - channel ) NMDA receptor antagonist which binds preferentially to the NMDA receptor - operated cation channels .
There is no evidence that memantine prevents or slows neurodegeneration in patients with Alzheimer ’ s disease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Memantine showed low to negligible affinity for GABA , benzodiazepine , dopamine , adrenergic , histamine and glycine receptors and for voltage - dependent Ca2 + , Na + , or K + channels .
Memantine also showed antagonistic effects at the 5HT3 receptor with a potency similar to that for the NMDA receptor and blocked nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with one - sixth to one - tenth the potency .
In vitro studies have shown that memantine does not affect the reversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase by donepezil , galantamine , or tacrine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Memantine is well absorbed after oral administration and has linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range .
It is excreted predominantly unchanged in urine and has a terminal elimination half life of about 60 - 80 hours .
In a study comparing 28 mg once daily memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to 10 mg twice daily memantine hydrochloride tablets , the Cmax and AUC0 - 24 values were 48 % and 33 % higher for the XR dosage regimen , respectively .
Absorption After multiple dose administration of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , memantine peak concentrations occur around 9 - 12 hours postdose .
There is no difference in the absorption of memantine hydrochloride when the capsule is taken intact or when the contents are sprinkled on applesauce .
There is no difference in memantine exposure , based on Cmax or AUC , for memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules whether that drug product is administered with food or on an empty stomach .
However , peak plasma concentrations are achieved about 18 hours after administration with food versus approximately 25 hours after administration on an empty stomach .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution of memantine is 9 - 11 L / kg and the plasma protein binding is low ( 45 % ) .
Elimination Metabolism Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism .
The hepatic microsomal CYP450 enzyme system does not play a significant role in the metabolism of memantine .
Excretion Memantine is excreted predominantly unchanged in the urine and has a terminal elimination half - life of about 60 - 80 hours .
About 48 % of administered drug is excreted unchanged in urine ; the remainder is converted primarily to three polar metabolites which possess minimal NMDA receptor antagonistic activity : the N - glucuronide conjugate , 6 - hydroxy - memantine , and 1 - nitroso - deaminated memantine .
A total of 74 % of the administered dose is excreted as the sum of the parent drug and the N - glucuronide conjugate .
Renal clearance involves active tubular secretion moderated by pH dependent tubular reabsorption .
Specific Populations Elderly The pharmacokinetics of memantine in young and elderly subjects are similar .
Gender Following multiple dose administration of memantine hydrochloride 20 mg daily , females had about 45 % higher exposure than males , but there was no difference in exposure when body weight was taken into account .
Renal Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following single oral administration of 20 mg memantine hydrochloride in 8 subjects with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance , CLcr , > 50 – 80 mL / min ) , 8 subjects with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 – 49 mL / min ) , 7 subjects with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 5 – 29 mL / min ) and 8 healthy subjects ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) matched as closely as possible by age , weight and gender to the subjects with renal impairment .
Mean AUC0 - ∞ increased by 4 % , 60 % , and 115 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The terminal elimination half - life increased by 18 % , 41 % , and 95 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
Hepatic Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following the administration of single oral doses of 20 mg in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B , score 7 - 9 ) and 8 subjects who were age - , gender - , and weight - matched to the hepatically - impaired subjects .
There was no change in memantine exposure ( based on Cmax and AUC ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
However , terminal elimination half - life increased by about 16 % in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
Drug - Drug Interactions Use with Cholinesterase Inhibitors Coadministration of memantine with the AChE inhibitor donepezil did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
Furthermore , memantine did not affect AChE inhibition by donepezil .
In a 24 - week controlled clinical study in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ’ s disease , the adverse reaction profile observed with a combination of memantine immediate - release and donepezil was similar to that of donepezil alone .
Effect of Memantine on the Metabolism of Other Drugs In vitro studies conducted with marker substrates of CYP450 enzymes ( CYP1A2 , - 2A6 , 2C9 , - 2D6 , - 2E1 , - 3A4 ) showed minimal inhibition of these enzymes by memantine .
In addition , in vitro studies indicate that at concentrations exceeding those associated with efficacy , memantine does not induce the cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP1A2 , - 2C9 , 2E1 and - 3A4 / 5 .
No pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs metabolized by these enzymes are expected .
Pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the potential of memantine for interaction with warfarin and bupropion .
Memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of the CYP2B6 substrate bupropion or its metabolite hydroxybupropion .
Furthermore , memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin as assessed by the prothrombin INR .
Effect of Other Drugs on Memantine Memantine is predominantly renally eliminated , and drugs that are substrates and / or inhibitors of the CYP450 system are not expected to alter the metabolism of memantine .
Drugs Eliminated via Renal Mechanisms Because memantine is eliminated in part by tubular secretion , coadministration of drugs that use the same renal cationic system , including hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , triamterene ( TA ) , metformin , cimetidine , ranitidine , quinidine , and nicotine , could potentially result in altered plasma levels of both agents .
However , coadministration of memantine and HCTZ / TA did not affect the bioavailability of either memantine or TA , and the bioavailability of HCTZ decreased by 20 % .
In addition , coadministration of memantine with the antihyperglycemic drug Glucovance ® ( glyburide and metformin hydrochloride ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine , metformin and glyburide .
Furthermore , memantine did not modify the serum glucose lowering effect of Glucovance , indicating the absence of a pharmacodynamic interaction .
Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Because the plasma protein binding of memantine is low ( 45 % ) , an interaction with drugs that are highly bound to plasma proteins , such as warfarin and digoxin , is unlikely .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in a 113 - week oral study in mice at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 7 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was also no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats orally dosed at up to 40 mg / kg / day for 71 weeks followed by 20 mg / kg / day ( 14 and 7 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) through 128 weeks .
Mutagenesis Memantine produced no evidence of genotoxic potential when evaluated in the in vitro S . typhimurium or E . coli reverse mutation assay , an in vitro chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , an in vivo cytogenetics assay for chromosome damage in rats , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
The results were equivocal in an in vitro gene mutation assay using Chinese hamster V79 cells .
Impairment of Fertility No impairment of fertility or reproductive performance was seen in rats administered up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) orally from 14 days prior to mating through gestation and lactation in females , or for 60 days prior to mating in males .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Memantine induced neuronal lesions ( vacuolation and necrosis ) in the multipolar and pyramidal cells in cortical layers III and IV of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial neocortices in rats , similar to those which are known to occur in rodents administered other NMDA receptor antagonists .
Lesions were seen after a single dose of memantine .
In a study in which rats were given daily oral doses of memantine for 14 days , the no - effect dose for neuronal necrosis was 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD of 28 mg / day ) on a mg / m2 basis .
In acute and repeat - dose neurotoxicity studies in female rats , oral administration of memantine and donepezil in combination resulted in increased incidence , severity , and distribution of neurodegeneration compared with memantine alone .
The no - effect levels of the combination were associated with clinically relevant plasma memantine and donepezil exposures .
The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ’ s disease was based on the results of a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial .
24 - week Study of Memantine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules This was a randomized double - blind clinical investigation in outpatients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ’ s disease ( diagnosed by DSM - IV criteria and NINCDS - ADRDA criteria for AD with a Mini Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) score ≥ 3 and ≤ 14 at Screening and Baseline ) receiving acetylcholinesterase inhibitor ( AChEI ) therapy at a stable dose for 3 months prior to screening .
The mean age of patients participating in this trial was 76 . 5 years with a range of 49 - 97 years .
Approximately 72 % of patients were female and 94 % were Caucasian .
Study Outcome Measures The effectiveness of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules was evaluated in this study using the co - primary efficacy parameters of Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) and the Clinician ’ s Interview - Based Impression of Change ( CIBIC - Plus ) .
The ability of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to improve cognitive performance was assessed with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) , a multi - item instrument that has been validated for the evaluation of cognitive function in patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The SIB examines selected aspects of cognitive performance , including elements of attention , orientation , language , memory , visuospatial ability , construction , praxis , and social interaction .
The SIB scoring range is from 0 to 100 , with lower scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
The ability of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to produce an overall clinical effect was assessed using a Clinician ’ s Interview Based Impression of Change that required the use of caregiver information , the CIBIC - Plus .
The CIBIC - Plus is not a single instrument and is not a standardized instrument like the ADCS - ADL or SIB .
Clinical trials for investigational drugs have used a variety of CIBIC formats , each different in terms of depth and structure .
As such , results from a CIBIC - Plus reflect clinical experience from the trial or trials in which it was used and cannot be compared directly with the results of CIBIC - Plus evaluations from other clinical trials .
The CIBIC - Plus used in this trial was a structured instrument based on a comprehensive evaluation at baseline and subsequent time - points of four domains : general ( overall clinical status ) , functional ( including activities of daily living ) , cognitive , and behavioral .
It represents the assessment of a skilled clinician using validated scales based on his / her observation during an interview with the patient , in combination with information supplied by a caregiver familiar with the behavior of the patient over the interval rated .
The CIBIC - Plus is scored as a seven point categorical rating , ranging from a score of 1 , indicating “ marked improvement ” to a score of 4 , indicating “ no change ” to a score of 7 , indicating “ marked worsening . ”
The CIBIC - Plus has not been systematically compared directly to assessments not using information from caregivers ( CIBIC ) or other global methods .
Study Results In this study , 677 patients were randomized to one of the following 2 treatments : memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 28 mg / day or placebo while still receiving an AChEI ( either donepezil , galantamine , or rivastigmine ) .
Effects on Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) Figure 1 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups completing the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule 28 mg / AChEI - treated ( combination therapy ) patients compared to the patients on placebo / AChEI ( monotherapy ) was 2 . 6 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule 28 mg / AChEI treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / AChEI .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Time course of the change from baseline in SIB score for patients completing 24 weeks of treatment Figure 2 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of improvement in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule 28 mg / AChEI and placebo / AChEI have a wide range of responses , but that the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule 28 mg / AChEI group is more likely to show an improvement or a smaller decline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 24 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in SIB scores Figure 3 shows the time course for the CIBIC - Plus score for patients in the two treatment groups completing the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the CIBIC - Plus scores for the memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule 28 mg / AChEI - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo / AChEI was 0 . 3 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsule 28 mg / AChEI treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / AChEI .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Time course of the CIBIC - Plus score for patients completing 24 weeks of treatment Figure 4 is a histogram of the percentage distribution of CIBIC - Plus scores attained by patients assigned to each of the treatment groups who completed 24 weeks of treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Distribution of CIBIC - Plus ratings at week 24 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 7 mg , are flesh opaque cap and body , hard gelatin capsules , printed “ 7 MG ” on the cap and “ A242 ” on the body and are supplied as : Bottles of 30 NDC 63629 - 1985 - 1 Store memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
• • To assure safe and effective use of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , the information and instructions provided in the patient information section should be discussed with patients and caregivers .
• • Instruct patients and caregivers to take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules only once per day , as prescribed .
• • Instruct patients and caregivers that memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules be swallowed whole .
Alternatively , memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may be opened and sprinkled on applesauce and the entire contents should be consumed .
The capsules should not be divided , chewed or crushed .
• • Warn patients not to use any capsules of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
• • If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , that patient should not double up on the next dose .
The next dose should be taken as scheduled .
If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for several days , dosing should not be resumed without consulting that patient ’ s healthcare professional .
• • Advise patients and caregivers that memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may cause headache , diarrhea , and dizziness .
All brand names listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10447 Rev 03 / 21 PATIENT INFORMATION Memantine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ( me - MAN - teen HYE - droe - KLOR - ide Extended - Release Capsules ) Read this Patient Information that comes with memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are a prescription medicine used for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia in people with Alzheimer ’ s disease .
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules belong to a class of medicines called N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) inhibitors .
It is not known if memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Do not take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules if you are allergic to memantine or any of the other ingredients in memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
What should I tell my doctor before taking memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Before you take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , tell your doctor if you : • • have or have had seizures • • have or have had problems passing urine • • have or have had bladder or kidney problems • • have liver problems • • have any other medical conditions • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if memantine passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Taking memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • • other NMDA antagonists such as amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan • • medicines that make your urine alkaline such as carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and sodium bicarbonate Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
• • Your doctor will tell you how much memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to take and when to take it .
• • Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may be taken with food or without food .
• • Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may be opened and sprinkled on applesauce before swallowing , but the contents of the entire capsule should be taken and the dose should not be divided .
Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce , memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules must be swallowed whole and never crushed , divided or chewed .
• • Do not use any capsules of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
• • If you are currently taking another formulation of memantine , talk to your healthcare professional about how to switch to memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
• • If you forget to take one dose of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , do not double up on the next dose .
You should take only the next dose as scheduled .
• • If you have forgotten to take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for several days , you should not take the next dose until you talk to your doctor .
• • If you take too much memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , call your doctor or poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may cause side effects , including : The most common side effects of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules include : • • headache • • diarrhea • • dizziness These are not all the possible side effects of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
• • Store memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
What are the ingredients in memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Active ingredient : memantine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , medium chain triglycerides , oleic acid , polyethylene glycol , sugar spheres and talc , in hard gelatin capsules ( containing gelatin , titanium dioxide and red iron oxide ) imprinted with black ink containing black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide ( 14 mg and 28 mg ) , propylene glycol , and shellac .
General information about the safe and effective use of memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about memantine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , go to www . anipharmaceuticals . com , or call ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10447 Rev 03 / 21 Memantine Hcl 7 mg ER Capsule , # 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
