Boxed Warning 08 / 2019 Contraindications ( 4 ) 08 / 2019 Warnings and Precautions , Complex Sleep Behaviors ( 5 . 1 ) 08 / 2019 Warnings and Precautions , CNS Depressant Effects and Next - Day Impairment ( 5 . 2 ) 12 / 2018 WARNING : COMPLEX SLEEP BEHAVIORS Complex sleep behaviors including sleep - walking , sleep - driving , and engaging in other activities while not fully awake may occur following use of Edluar .
Some of these events may result in serious injuries , including death .
Discontinue Edluar immediately if a patient experiences a complex sleep behavior [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : COMPLEX SLEEP BEHAVIORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Complex sleep behaviors including sleep - walking , sleep - driving , and engaging in other activities while not fully awake may occur following use of Edluar .
Some of these events may result in serious injuries , including death .
Discontinue Edluar immediately if a patient experiences a complex sleep behavior .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Edluar ( zolpidem tartrate ) sublingual tablets are indicated for the short - term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The clinical trials performed with zolpidem tartrate in support of efficacy were 4 - 5 weeks in duration with the final formal assessments of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment .
Edluar , a gamma - aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) A receptor positive modulator , is indicated for the short - term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation .
Zolpidem tartrate has been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Use the lowest dose effective for the patient ( 2 . 1 ) • • Recommended dose is 5 mg for women and 5 or 10 mg for men , immediately before bedtime .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Geriatric patients and patients with hepatic impairment : Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with Edluar .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Co - administration with CNS depressants : Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women .
( 2 . 3 ) • • The effect of Edluar may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal .
( 2 . 4 ) • • Edluar sublingual tablet should be placed under the tongue , where it will disintegrate .
( 2 . 4 ) • • The tablet should not be swallowed and the tablet should not be taken with water .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient .
The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men , taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 - 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening .
If the 5 mg dose is not effective , the dose can be increased to 10 mg .
In some patients , the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The total dose of Edluar should not exceed 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime .
The recommended initial doses for women and men are different because zolpidem clearance is lower in women .
2 . 2 Special Populations Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate .
Patients with hepatic insufficiency do not clear the drug as rapidly as normal subjects .
The recommended dose of Edluar in both of these patient populations is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ; Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when Edluar is combined with other CNS - depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 Administration The effect of Edluar may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal .
Edluar sublingual tablet should be placed under the tongue , where it will disintegrate .
The tablet should not be swallowed and the tablet should not be taken with water .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Edluar is available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for sublingual administration .
Tablets are not scored .
Edluar 5 mg sublingual tablets are round white , flat - faced , bevel - edged , with debossed V on one side .
Edluar 10 mg sublingual tablets are round white , flat - faced , bevel - edged , with debossed X on one side .
Sublingual tablets : 5 mg and 10 mg .
Tablets not scored .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Edluar is contraindicated in patients : • • who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking Edluar [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem .
Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking Edluar .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • • Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • CNS Depressant Effects : Impairs alertness and motor coordination , including risk of morning impairment .
Risk increases with dose and use with other CNS depressants and alcohol .
Instruct patients on correct use .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Need to Evaluate for Co - morbid Diagnosis : Reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions : angioedema and anaphylaxis have been reported .
Do not rechallenge if such reactions occur .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes : Changes including decreased inhibition , bizarre behavior , agitation and depersonalization have been reported .
Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Depression : Worsening of depression or suicidal thinking may occur .
Prescribe the least amount of tablets feasible to avoid intentional overdose .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Respiratory Depression : Consider this risk before prescribing in patients with compromised respiratory function .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Withdrawal Effects : Symptoms may occur with rapid dose reduction or discontinuation .
( 5 . 8 , 9 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Complex Sleep Behaviors Complex sleep behaviors including sleep - walking , sleep - driving , and engaging in other activities while not fully awake may occur following use of zolpidem .
Patients can be seriously injured or injure others during complex sleep behaviors .
Such injuries may result in a fatal outcome .
Other complex sleep behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have also been reported .
Patients usually do not remember these events .
Post - marketing reports have shown that complex sleep behaviors may occur with zolpidem alone at recommended dosages , with or without the concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Discontinue Edluar immediately if a patient experiences a complex sleep behavior .
5 . 2 CNS Depressant Effects and Next - Day Impairment Edluar , like other sedative - hypnotic drugs , CNS depressant effects .
Co - administration with other CNS depressants ( e . g . , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants , alcohol ) increases the risk of CNS depression .
Dosage adjustments of Edluar and of other concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when Edluar is administered with such agents because of the potentially additive effects .
The use of Edluar with other sedative - hypnotics ( including other zolpidem products ) at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
The risk of next - day psychomotor impairment , including impaired driving , is increased if Edluar is taken with less than a full night of sleep remaining ( 7 to 8 hours ) ; if a higher than the recommended dose is taken ; if co - administered with other CNS depressants ; or if co - administered with other drugs that increase the blood level of zolpidem .
Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness if Edluar is taken in these circumstances .
Because Edluar can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness , patients , particularly the elderly , are at higher risk of falls .
5 . 3 Need to Evaluate for Co - morbid Diagnoses Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder .
Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative / hypnotic drugs , including zolpidem .
5 . 4 Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Cases of angioedema involving the tongue , glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative - hypnotics , including zolpidem tartrate .
Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea , throat closing or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis .
Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department .
If angioedema involves the throat , glottis or larynx , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with Edluar should not be rechallenged with the drug .
5 . 5 Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes Abnormal thinking and behavior changes have been reported in patients treated with sedative / hypnotics , including zolpidem .
Some of these changes included decreased inhibition ( e . g . aggressiveness and extroversion that seemed out of character ) , bizarre behavior , agitation and depersonalization .
Visual and auditory hallucinations have been reported .
In controlled trials of zolpidem tartrate 10 mg taken at bedtime , < 1 % of adults with insomnia who received zolpidem reported hallucinations .
In a clinical trial , 7 % of pediatric patients treated with zolpidem tartrate 0 . 25 mg / kg taken at bedtime reported hallucinations , versus 0 % treated with placebo [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced , spontaneous in origin , or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder .
Nonetheless , the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Depression In primarily depressed patients treated with sedative - hypnotics , worsening of depression , and suicidal thoughts and actions ( including completed suicides ) , have been reported .
Suicidal tendencies may be present in such patients and protective measures may be required .
Intentional overdosage is more common in this group of patients ; therefore , the least amount of drug that is feasible should be prescribed for the patient at any one time .
5 . 7 Respiratory Depression Although studies with 10 mg zolpidem tartrate did not reveal respiratory depressant effects at hypnotic doses in healthy subjects or in patients with mild - to - moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , a reduction in the Total Arousal Index , together with a reduction in lowest oxygen saturation and increase in the time of oxygen desaturation below 80 % and 90 % , was observed in patients with mild - to - moderate sleep apnea when treated with zolpidem compared to placebo .
Since sedative - hypnotics have the capacity to depress respiratory drive , precautions should be taken if Edluar is prescribed to patients with compromised respiratory function .
Post - marketing reports of respiratory insufficiency in patients receiving 10 mg of zolpidem tartrate , most of whom had pre - existing respiratory impairment , have been reported .
The risks of respiratory depression should be considered prior to prescribing Edluar in patients with respiratory impairment including sleep apnea and myasthenia gravis .
5 . 8 Withdrawal Effects There have been reports of withdrawal signs and symptoms following the rapid dose decrease or abrupt discontinuation of zolpidem .
Monitor patients for tolerance , abuse , and dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 ) and ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Complex Sleep Behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • CNS - Depressant Effects and Next - Day Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Serious Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Withdrawal Effects [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most commonly observed adverse reactions were : • Short term ( < 10 nights ) : Drowsiness , dizziness , and diarrhea • Long term ( 28 - 35 nights ) : Dizziness and drugged feelings ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 866 - 444 - 7799 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Associated with discontinuation of treatment : Approximately 4 % of 1 , 701 patients who received zolpidem tartrate at all doses ( 1 . 25 to 90 mg ) in U . S . premarketing clinical trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse reaction .
Reactions most commonly associated with discontinuation from U . S . trials were daytime drowsiness ( 0 . 5 % ) , dizziness ( 0 . 4 % ) , headache ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 6 % ) , and vomiting ( 0 . 5 % ) .
Approximately 4 % of 1 , 959 patients who received zolpidem tartrate at all doses ( 1 to 50 mg ) in similar foreign trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse reaction .
Reactions most commonly associated with discontinuation from these trials were daytime drowsiness ( 1 . 1 % ) , dizziness / vertigo ( 0 . 8 % ) , amnesia ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 5 % ) , headache ( 0 . 4 % ) , and falls ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Data from a clinical study in which selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) - treated patients were given zolpidem tartrate revealed that four of the seven discontinuations during double - blind treatment with zolpidem ( n = 95 ) were associated with impaired concentration , continuing or aggravated depression , and manic reaction ; one patient treated with placebo ( n = 97 ) was discontinued after an attempted suicide .
Most commonly observed adverse reactions in controlled trials : During short - term treatment ( up to 10 nights ) with zolpidem tartrate at doses up to 10 mg , the most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of zolpidem and seen at statistically significant differences from placebo - treated patients were drowsiness ( reported by 2 % of zolpidem patients ) , dizziness ( 1 % ) , and diarrhea ( 1 % ) .
During longer - term treatment ( 28 to 35 nights ) with zolpidem tartrate at doses up to 10 mg , the most commonly observed adverse reactions associated with the use of zolpidem and seen at statistically significant differences from placebo - treated patients were dizziness ( 5 % ) and drugged feelings ( 3 % ) .
Adverse reactions observed at an incidence of ≥ 1 % in controlled trials : The following tables enumerate treatment - emergent adverse event frequencies that were observed at an incidence equal to 1 % or greater among patients with insomnia who received zolpidem tartrate and at a greater incidence than placebo in U . S . placebo - controlled trials .
Events reported by investigators were classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms for the purpose of establishing event frequencies .
The prescriber should be aware that these figures cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice , in which patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in these clinical trials .
Similarly , the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigators involving related drug products and uses , since each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions .
However , the cited figures provide the physician with a basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the incidence of side effects in the population studied .
The following table was derived from a pool of 11 placebo - controlled short - term U . S . efficacy trials involving zolpidem in doses ranging from 1 . 25 to 20 mg .
The table is limited to data from doses up to and including 10 mg , the highest dose recommended for use .
TABLE 1 : Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Experiences in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials with zolpidem tartrate lasting up to 10 nights ( Percentage of patients reporting ) * Reactions reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with oral zolpidem and at a greater frequency than placebo .
Body System / Adverse Event * Zolipidem tartrate ( ≤ 10 mg ) ( N = 685 ) Placebo ( N = 473 ) Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 7 6 Drowsiness 2 - Dizziness 1 - Gastrointestinal System Diarrhea 1 - The following table was derived from a pool of three placebo - controlled long - term efficacy trials involving oral zolpidem .
These trials involved patients with chronic insomnia who were treated for 28 to 35 nights with zolpidem at doses of 5 , 10 , or 15 mg .
The table is limited to data from doses up to and including 10 mg , the highest dose recommended for use .
The table includes only adverse events occurring at an incidence of at least 1 % for zolpidem patients .
TABLE 2 : Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Experiences in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials with zolpidem tartrate lasting up to 35 nights ( Percentage of patients reporting ) * Reactions reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with oral zolpidem and at a greater frequency than placebo .
Body System / Adverse Event * Zolpidem tartrate ( ≤ 10 mg ) ( N = 152 ) Placebo ( N = 161 ) Autonomic Nervous System 3 1 Dry mouth Body as a Whole Allergy 4 1 Back Pain 3 2 Influenza - like symptoms 2 - Chest pain 1 - Cardiovascular System Palpitation 2 - Central and Peripheral Nervous System Drowsiness 8 5 Dizziness 5 1 Lethargy 3 1 Drugged feeling 3 - Lightheadedness 2 1 Depression 2 1 Abnormal dreams 1 - Amnesia 1 - Sleep disorder 1 - Gastrointestinal System Diarrhea 3 2 Abdominal pain 2 2 Constipation 2 1 Respiratory System Sinusitis 4 2 Pharyngitis 3 1 Skin and Appendages Rash 2 1 Dose relationship for adverse reactions associated with oral zolpidem : There is evidence from dose comparison trials suggesting a dose relationship for many of the adverse reactions associated with oral zolpidem use , particularly for certain CNS and gastrointestinal adverse events .
Oral tissue - related adverse reactions to Edluar : The effect of chronic daily administration of Edluar on oral tissue was evaluated in a 60 - day open - label study in 60 insomniac patients .
One patient developed transient sublingual erythema , and another transient paresthesia of the tongue .
Adverse event incidence across the entire preapproval oral zolpidem database : Zolpidem was administered to 3 , 660 subjects in clinical trials throughout the U . S . , Canada , and Europe .
Treatment - emergent adverse events associated with clinical trial participation were recorded by clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing .
To provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing treatment - emergent adverse events , similar types of untoward events were grouped into a smaller number of standardized event categories and classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms .
The frequencies presented , therefore , represent the proportions of the 3 , 660 individuals exposed to zolpidem , at all doses , who experienced an event of the type cited on at least one occasion while receiving zolpidem .
All reported treatment - emergent adverse events are included , except those already listed in the table above of adverse events in placebo - controlled studies , those coding terms that are so general as to be uninformative , and those events where a drug cause was remote .
It is important to emphasize that , although the events reported did occur during treatment with zolpidem , they were not necessarily caused by it .
Adverse events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in greater than 1 / 100 subjects ; infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients ; rare events are those occurring in less than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Autonomic nervous system : Infrequent : increased sweating , pallor , postural hypotension , syncope .
Rare : abnormal accommodation , altered saliva , flushing , glaucoma , hypotension , impotence , increased saliva , tenesmus .
Body as a whole : Frequent : asthenia .
Infrequent : edema , falling , fever , malaise , trauma .
Rare : allergic reaction , allergy aggravated , anaphylactic shock , face edema , hot flashes , increased ESR , pain , restless legs , rigors , tolerance increased , weight decrease .
Cardiovascular system : Infrequent : cerebrovascular disorder , hypertension , tachycardia .
Rare : angina pectoris , arrhythmia , arteritis , circulatory failure , extrasystoles , hypertension aggravated , myocardial infarction , phlebitis , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary edema , varicose veins , ventricular tachycardia .
Central and peripheral nervous system : Frequent : ataxia , confusion , euphoria , headache , insomnia , vertigo .
Infrequent : agitation , anxiety , decreased cognition , detached , difficulty concentrating , dysarthria , emotional lability , hallucination , hypoesthesia , illusion , leg cramps , migraine , nervousness , paresthesia , sleeping ( after daytime dosing ) , speech disorder , stupor , tremor .
Rare : abnormal gait , abnormal thinking , aggressive reaction , apathy , appetite increased , decreased libido , delusion , dementia , depersonalization , dysphasia , feeling strange , hypokinesia , hypotonia , hysteria , intoxicated feeling , manic reaction , neuralgia , neuritis , neuropathy , neurosis , panic attacks , paresis , personality disorder , somnambulism , suicide attempts , tetany , yawning .
Gastrointestinal system : Frequent : dyspepsia , hiccup , nausea .
Infrequent : anorexia , constipation , dysphagia , flatulence , gastroenteritis , vomiting .
Rare : enteritis , eructation , esophagospasm , gastritis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , rectal hemorrhage , tooth caries .
Hematologic and lymphatic system : Rare : anemia , hyperhemoglobinemia , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , macrocytic anemia , purpura , thrombosis .
Immunologic system : Infrequent : infection .
Rare : abscess herpes simplex herpes zoster , otitis externa , otitis media .
Liver and biliary system : Infrequent : abnormal hepatic function , increased SGPT .
Rare : bilirubinemia , increased SGOT .
Metabolic and nutritional : Infrequent : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Rare : gout , hypercholesterolemia , hyperlipidemia , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased BUN , periorbital edema .
Musculoskeletal system : Frequent : arthralgia , myalgia .
Infrequent : arthritis .
Rare : arthrosis , muscle weakness , sciatica , tendinitis .
Reproductive system : Infrequent : menstrual disorder , vaginitis .
Rare : breast fibroadenosis , breast neoplasm , breast pain .
Respiratory system : Frequent : upper respiratory infection .
Infrequent : bronchitis , coughing , dyspnea , rhinitis .
Rare : bronchospasm , epistaxis , hypoxia , laryngitis , pneumonia .
Skin and appendages : Infrequent : pruritus .
Rare : acne , bullous eruption , dermatitis , furunculosis , injection - site inflammation , photosensitivity reaction , urticaria .
Special senses : Frequent : diplopia , vision abnormal .
Infrequent : eye irritation , eye pain , scleritis , taste perversion , tinnitus .
Rare : conjunctivitis , corneal ulceration , lacrimation abnormal , parosmia , photopsia .
Urogenital system : Frequent : urinary tract infection .
Infrequent : cystitis , urinary incontinence .
Rare : acute renal failure , dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia , polyuria , pyelonephritis , renal pain , urinary retention .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • CNS - depressants , including alcohol : Possible adverse additive CNS - depressant effects ( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • • Imipramine : decreased alertness observed ( 7 . 1 ) • • Chlorpromazine : impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7 . 1 ) • • Rifampin : combination use may decrease effects ( 7 . 2 ) • • Ketoconazole : combination use may increase effect ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 CNS - active Drugs CNS Depressants Co - administration of zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Zolpidem tartrate was evaluated in healthy volunteers in single - dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs .
Imipramine , Chlorpromazine Imipramine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20 % decrease in peak levels of imipramine , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness .
Similarly , chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Haloperidol A study involving haloperidol and zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
The lack of a drug interaction following single - dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral zolpidem was demonstrated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Sertraline Concomitant administration of zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to zolpidem and may increase the pharmacodynamics effect of zolpidem [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Fluoxetine After multiple doses of zolpidem tartrate and fluoxetine an increase in the zolpidem half - life ( 17 % ) was observed .
There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Drugs That Affect Drug Metabolism Via Cytochrome P450 Some compounds known to inhibit CYP3A may increase exposure to zolpidem .
The effect of other P450 enzymes on the exposure to zolpidem is not known .
Rifampin Rifampin , a CYP3A4 inducer , significantly reduced the exposure to and the pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem .
Use of Rifampin in combination with zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of zolpidem .
Ketoconazole Ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , increased the pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem .
Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when ketoconazole and zolpidem are given together .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy : May cause respiratory depression and sedation in neonates with exposure late in third trimester .
( 8 . 1 ) • • Lactation : A lactating woman may pump and discard breast milk during treatment and for 23 hours after Edluar administration .
( 8 . 2 ) • • Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness not established .
Hallucinations ( incidence rate 7 % ) and other psychiatric and / or nervous system adverse reactions were observed frequently in a study of pediatric patients with Attention - Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Neonates born to mothers using zolpidem late in the third trimester of pregnancy have been reported to experience symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation ( see Clinical Considerations and Data ) .
Published data on the use of zolpidem during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of and major birth defects ( see Data ) .
Oral administration of zolpidem to pregnant rats and rabbits did not indicate a risk for adverse effects on fetal development at clinically relevant doses ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / neonatal adverse reactions Zolpidem crosses the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and sedation in neonates .
Monitor neonates exposed to Edluar during pregnancy and labor for signs of excess sedation , hypotonia , and respiratory depression and manage accordingly .
Data Human Data Published data from observational studies , birth registries and case reports on the use of zolpidem during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects .
There are limited postmarketing reports of severe to moderate cases of respiratory depression that occurred after birth in neonates whose mothers had taken zolpidem during pregnancy .
These cases required artificial ventilation or intra - tracheal intubation .
The majority of neonates recovered within hours to a few weeks after birth once treated .
Zolpidem has been shown to cross the placenta .
Animal Data Oral administration of zolpidem to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg / day , which are approximately 5 , 25 , and 120 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day ( 8 mg zolpidem base ) based on mg / m2 body surface area , caused delayed fetal development ( incomplete fetal skeletal ossification ) at maternally toxic ( ataxia ) doses 25 and 120 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
Oral administration of zolpidem to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis at 1 , 4 , and 16 mg base / kg / day , which are approximately 2 . 5 , 10 , and 40 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day ( 8 mg zolpidem base ) based on mg / m2 body surface area caused embryo - fetal death and delayed fetal development ( incomplete fetal skeletal ossification ) at a maternally toxic ( decreased body weight gain ) dose 40 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
Oral administration of zolpidem to pregnant rats from day 15 of gestation through lactation at 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg / day , which are approximately 5 , 25 , and 120 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day ( 8 mg zolpidem base ) based on mg / m2 body surface area , delayed offspring growth and decreased survival at doses 25 and 120 times , respectively , the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited data from published literature reports the presence of zolpidem in human milk .
There are reports of excess sedation in infants exposed to zolpidem through breastmilk ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
There is no information on the effects of zolpidem on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Edluar and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Edluar or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Infants exposed to Edluar through breastmilk should be monitored for excess sedation , hypotonia , and respiratory depression .
A lactating woman may consider interrupting breastfeeding and pumping and discarding breast milk during treatment and for 23 hours ( approximately 5 elimination half - lives ) after Edluar administration in order to minimize drug exposure to a breast fed infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Edluar is not recommended for use in children .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 18 .
In an 8 - week controlled study in 201 pediatric patients ( aged 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , an oral solution of zolpidem tartrate dosed at 0 . 25 mg / kg at bedtime did not decrease sleep latency compared to placebo .
Ten patients on zolpidem ( 7 . 4 % ) discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction .
Psychiatric and nervous system disorders comprised the most frequent ( > 5 % ) treatment emergent adverse reactions observed with zolpidem versus placebo and included dizziness ( 23 . 5 % vs . 1 . 5 % ) , headache ( 12 . 5 % vs . 9 . 2 % ) , and hallucinations reported in 7 % of the pediatric patients who received zolpidem ; none of the pediatric patients who received placebo reported hallucinations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 154 patients in U . S . controlled clinical trials and 897 patients in non - U . S . clinical trials who received oral zolpidem were ≥ 60 years of age .
For a pool of U . S . patients receiving zolpidem tartrate at doses of ≤ 10 mg or placebo , there were three adverse events occurring at an incidence of at least 3 % for zolpidem and for which the zolpidem incidence was at least twice the placebo incidence ( i . e . , they could be considered drug - related ) .
Adverse Event Zolpidem Placebo Dizziness 3 % 0 % Drowsiness 5 % 2 % Diarrhea 3 % 1 % A total of 30 / 1 , 959 ( 1 . 5 % ) non - U . S . patients receiving zolpidem tartrate reported falls , including 28 / 30 ( 93 % ) who were ≥ 70 years of age .
Of these 28 patients , 23 ( 82 % ) were receiving zolpidem doses > 10 mg .
A total of 24 / 1 , 959 ( 1 . 2 % ) non - U . S . patients receiving zolpidem reported confusion , including 18 / 24 ( 75 % ) who were ≥ 70 years of age .
Of these 18 patients , 14 ( 78 % ) were receiving zolpidem doses > 10 mg .
The dose of Edluar in elderly patients is 5 mg to minimize adverse effects related to impaired motor and / or cognitive performance and unusual sensitivity to sedative / hypnotic drugs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 6 Gender Difference in Pharmacokinetics Women clear zolpidem tartrate from the body at a lower rate than men , Cmax and AUC parameters of zolpidem were approximately 45 % higher at the same dose in female subjects compared with male subjects .
Given the higher blood levels of zolpidem tartrate in women compared to men at a given dose , the recommended dose of Edluar for adult women is 5 mg , and the recommended dose for adult men is 5 or 10 mg .
In geriatric patients , clearance of zolpidem is similar in men and women .
The recommended dose of Edluar in geriatric patients is 5 mg regardless of gender .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Edluar contains the same active substance , zolpidem tartrate , as zolpidem tartrate oral tablets and is classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance by federal regulation .
9 . 2 Abuse Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Abuse is characterized by misuse of the drug for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug induces changes that result in a diminution of one or more of the drug effects over time .
Tolerance may occur to both desired and undesired effects of drugs and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiological disease with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , using a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Studies of abuse potential in former drug abusers found that the effects of single doses of zolpidem tartrate 40 mg were similar , but not identical , to diazepam 20 mg , while zolpidem tartrate 10 mg was difficult to distinguish from placebo .
Because persons with a history of addiction to or abuse of , drugs or alcohol are at increased risk for misuse , abuse , and addiction of Edluar , they should be monitored carefully when receiving Edluar or any other hypnotic .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical dependence is a state of adaptation that is manifested by a specific withdrawal syndrome that can be produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , decreasing blood level of the drug , and / or administration of an antagonist .
Sedative / hypnotics have produced withdrawal signs and symptoms following abrupt discontinuation .
These reported symptoms range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a withdrawal syndrome that may include abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , tremors , and convulsions .
The following adverse events which are considered to meet the DSM - III - R criteria for uncomplicated sedative / hypnotic withdrawal were reported during U . S . clinical trials following placebo substitution occurring within 48 hours following last zolpidem tartrate treatment : fatigue , nausea , flushing , lightheadedness , uncontrolled crying , emesis , stomach cramps , panic attack , nervousness , and abdominal discomfort .
These reported adverse events occurred at an incidence of 1 % or less .
However , available data cannot provide a reliable estimate of the incidence , if any , of dependence during treatment at recommended doses .
Post - marketing reports of abuse , dependence and withdrawal have been received .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms In postmarketing experience of overdose with zolpidem tartrate alone , or in combination with CNS - depressant agents , impairment of consciousness ranging from somnolence to coma , cardiovascular and / or respiratory compromise , and fatal outcomes have been reported .
10 . 2 Recommended Treatment Based on data obtained for zolpidem tartrate , general symptomatic and supportive measures for overdose with Edluar should be used along with immediate gastric lavage where appropriate .
Intravenous fluids should be administered as needed .
Zolpidem ’ s sedative / hypnotic effect was shown to be reduced by flumazenil and therefore may be useful ; however , flumazenil administration may contribute to the appearance of neurological symptoms ( convulsions ) .
As in all cases of drug overdose , respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and other appropriate signs should be monitored and general supportive measures employed .
Hypotension and CNS depression should be monitored and treated by appropriate medical intervention .
Sedating drugs should be withheld following zolpidem overdosage , even if excitation occurs .
The value of dialysis in the treatment of overdosage has not been determined , although hemodialysis studies in patients with renal failure receiving therapeutic doses have demonstrated that zolpidem is not dialyzable .
As with the management of all overdosage , the possibility of multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
The physician may wish to consider contacting a poison control center for up - to - date information on the management of hypnotic drug product overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Edluar contains zolpidem tartrate , a gamma - aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) A receptor positive modulator of the imidazopyridine class .
Edluar is available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for sublingual administration .
Chemically , zolpidem tartrate is N , N , 6 - trimethyl - 2 - p - tolylimidazo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyridine - 3 - acetamide L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 2 : 1 ) .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zolpidem tartrate , USP is a white to almost white crystalline powder that is sparingly soluble in water , alcohol , and propylene glycol .
It has a molecular weight of 764 . 88 .
Each Edluar tablet includes the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , colloidal silicon dioxide , silicified microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , saccharin sodium , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Zolpidem is a GABA A receptor positive modulator presumed to exert its therapeutic effects in the short - term treatment of insomnia through binding to the benzodiazepine site of α1 subunit containing GABA A receptors , increasing the frequency of chloride channel opening resulting in the inhibition of neuronal excitation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Zolpidem binds to GABAA receptors with a greater affinity for α1 subunit relative to α2 and α3 subunit containing receptors .
Zolpidem has no appreciable binding affinity for α5 subunit containing GABAA receptors .
This binding profile may explain the relative absence of myorelaxant effects in animal studies .
Zolpidem has no appreciable binding affinity for dopaminergic D2 , serotonergic 5HT2 , adrenergic , histaminergic or muscarinic receptors .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Edluar ( zolpidem tartrate ) sublingual tablets are bioequivalent to Ambien ® tablets ( Sanofi - Aventis ) with respect to Cmax and AUC .
Similar to zolpidem tartrate oral tablets , Edluar sublingual tablets result in a pharmacokinetic profile characterized by rapid absorption .
Following administration of single 10 mg Edluar , in 18 healthy adult subjects ( 18 - 65 years of age ) , the mean peak concentration ( Cmax ) of zolpidem was 106 ng / mL ( range : 52 to 205 ng / ml ) occurring at a median time ( Tmax ) of 82 minutes ( range : 30 - 180 min ) .
A food - effect study in 18 healthy volunteers compared the pharmacokinetics of Edluar 10 mg when administered while fasting or within 20 minutes after a high fat meal .
The mean AUC and Cmax were decreased by 20 % and 31 % , respectively , while median Tmax was prolonged by 28 % ( from 82 to 105 min ) .
The half - life remained unchanged .
These results suggest that , for faster sleep onset , Edluar should not be administered with or immediately after a meal .
Distribution : Based on data obtained with oral zolpidem , the total protein binding was found to be 92 . 5 ± 0 . 1 % and remained constant , independent of concentration between 40 and 790 ng / mL .
Metabolism : Based on data obtained with oral zolpidem , zolpidem is converted to inactive metabolites that are eliminated primarily by renal excretion .
Elimination : When Edluar administered as a single 5 or 10 mg dose in healthy adult subjects , the mean zolpidem elimination half - life was 2 . 85 hours ( range : 1 . 57 - 6 . 73 hr ) and 2 . 65 hours ( range : 1 . 75 to 3 . 77 hr ) respectively .
Special Populations Elderly : In the elderly , the dose for Edluar should be 5 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
This recommendation is based on several studies with zolpidem tartrate in which the mean Cmax , T1 / 2 , and AUC were significantly increased when compared to results in young adults .
In one study of eight elderly subjects ( > 70 years ) , the means for Cmax , T1 / 2 , and AUC significantly increased by 50 % ( 255 vs . 384 ng / mL ) , 32 % ( 2 . 2 vs . 2 . 9 hr ) , and 64 % ( 955 vs . 1 , 562 ng • hr / mL ) , respectively , as compared to younger adults ( 20 to 40 years ) following a single 20 mg oral dose .
Zolpidem did not accumulate in elderly subjects following nightly oral dosing of 10 mg for 1 week .
Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate in eight patients with chronic hepatic insufficiency were compared to results in healthy subjects .
Following a single 20 - mg oral zolpidem tartrate dose , mean Cmax and AUC were found to be two times ( 250 vs . 499 ng / mL ) and five times ( 788 vs . 4 , 203 ng • hr / mL ) higher , respectively , in hepatically - compromised patients .
Tmax did not change .
The mean half - life in cirrhotic patients of 9 . 9 hr ( range : 4 . 1 to 25 . 8 hr ) was greater than that observed in normals of 2 . 2 hr ( range : 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 hr ) .
Dosing with Edluar should be modified accordingly in patients with hepatic insufficiency [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate were studied in 11 patients with end - stage 4 renal failure ( mean ClCr = 6 . 5 ± 1 . 5 mL / min ) undergoing hemodialysis three times a week , who were dosed with zolpidem tartrate 10 mg orally each day for 14 or 21 days .
No statistically significant differences were observed for Cmax , Tmax , half - life , and AUC between the first and last day of drug administration when baseline concentration adjustments were made .
Zolpidem was not hemodialyzable .
No accumulation of unchanged drug appeared after 14 or 21 days .
Zolpidem pharmacokinetics were not significantly different in renally - impaired patients .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with compromised renal function .
Drug Interactions CNS - depressants : Co - administration of zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Zolpidem tartrate was evaluated in healthy volunteers in single - dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs .
Imipramine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20 % decrease in peak levels of imipramine , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness .
Similarly , chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance .
A study involving haloperidol and zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
The lack of a drug interaction following single - dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration .
An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral zolpidem was demonstrated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Following five consecutive nightly doses at bedtime of oral zolpidem tartrate 10 mg in the presence of sertraline 50 mg ( 17 consecutive daily doses , at 7 : 00 am , in healthy female volunteers ) , zolpidem Cmax was significantly higher ( 43 % ) and Tmax was significantly decreased ( - 53 % ) .
Pharmacokinetics of sertraline and N - desmethylsertraline were unaffected by zolpidem .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem tartrate 10 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg at steady - state levels in male volunteers did not demonstrate any clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamics interactions .
When multiple doses of zolpidem and fluoxetine were given at steady - state and the concentrations evaluated in healthy females , an increase in the zolpidem half - life ( 17 % ) was observed .
There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance .
Drugs that Affect Drug metabolism via Cytochrome P450 Some compounds known to inhibit CYP3A may increase exposure to zolpidem .
The effect of inhibitors of other P450 enzymes on the pharmacokinetics of zolpidem is unknown .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem tartrate 10 mg and itraconazole 200 mg at steady - state levels in male volunteers resulted in a 34 % increase in AUC0 - ∞ of zolpidem tartrate .
There were no pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem detected on subjective drowsiness , postural sway , or psychomotor performance .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem tartrate 10 mg and rifampin 600 mg at steady - state levels in female subjects showed significant reductions of the AUC ( - 73 % ) , Cmax ( - 58 % ) , and T ½ ( - 36 % ) of zolpidem together with significant reductions in the pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem tartrate .
Rifampin , a CYP3A4 inducer , significantly reduced the exposure to and the pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem 5 mg and ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , given as 200 mg twice daily for 2 days increased Cmax of zolpidem ( 30 % ) and the total AUC of zolpidem ( 70 % ) compared to zolpidem alone and prolonged the elimination half - life ( 30 % ) along with an increase in the pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem .
Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when ketoconazole and zolpidem are given together .
Other Drugs with No Interactions with Zolpidem A study involving cimetidine / zolpidem tartrate and ranitidine / zolpidem tartrate combinations revealed no effect of either drug on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
Zolpidem tartrate had no effect on digoxin pharmacokinetics and did not affect prothrombin time when given with warfarin in healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Zolpidem was administered to mice and rats for 2 years at oral doses of 4 , 18 , and 80 mg base / kg / day .
In mice , these doses are approximately 2 . 5 , 10 , and 50 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 10 mg / day ( 8 mg zolpidem base ) based on mg / m2 body surface area and in rats , these doses are approximately 5 , 20 , and 100 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in mice .
In rats , renal tumors ( lipoma , liposarcoma ) were seen at the mid and high doses .
Mutagenesis : Zolpidem was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation , mouse lymphoma , and chromosomal aberration ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus ) genetic toxicology assays .
Impairment of Fertility : Zolpidem was administered to rats at 4 , 20 , and 100 mg base / kg / day , which are approximately 5 , 25 , and 120 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 10 mg / day ( 8 mg zolpidem base ) based on mg / m2 body surface area , prior to and during mating , and continuing in females through postpartum day 25 .
Zolpidem caused irregular estrus cycles and prolonged precoital intervals at the highest dose tested , which is approximately 120 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 body surface area .
The NOAEL for these effects is 25 times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 body surface area .
There was no impairment of fertility at any dose tested .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Transient Insomnia Normal adults experiencing transient insomnia ( n = 462 ) during the first night in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a double - blind , parallel group , single night trial comparing two doses of zolpidem tartrate oral tablets ( 7 . 5 and 10 mg ) and placebo .
Both zolpidem doses were superior to placebo on objective ( polysomnographic ) measures of sleep latency , sleep duration , and number of awakenings .
Normal elderly adults ( mean age 68 ) experiencing transient insomnia ( n = 35 ) during the first two nights in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a double - blind , crossover , 2 - night trial comparing four doses of zolpidem ( 5 , 10 , 15 , and 20 mg ) and placebo .
All zolpidem doses were superior to placebo on the two primary PSG parameters ( sleep latency and efficiency ) and all four subjective outcome measures ( sleep duration , sleep latency , number of awakenings , and sleep quality ) .
14 . 2 Chronic Insomnia Zolpidem was evaluated in two controlled studies for the treatment of patients with chronic insomnia ( most closely resembling primary insomnia , as defined in the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , DSM - IV ™ ) .
Adult outpatients with chronic insomnia ( n = 75 ) were evaluated in a double - blind , parallel group , 5 - week trial comparing two doses of zolpidem tartrate and placebo .
On objective ( polysomnographic ) measures of sleep latency and sleep efficiency , zolpidem 10 mg was superior to placebo on sleep latency for the first 4 weeks and on sleep efficiency for weeks 2 and 4 .
Zolpidem was comparable to placebo on number of awakenings at both doses studied .
Adult outpatients ( n = 141 ) with chronic insomnia were also evaluated , in a double - blind , parallel group , 4 - week trial comparing two doses of zolpidem and placebo .
Zolpidem 10 mg was superior to placebo on a subjective measure of sleep latency for all 4 weeks , and on subjective measures of total sleep time , number of awakenings , and sleep quality for the first treatment week .
Increased wakefulness during the last third of the night as measured by polysomnography has not been observed in clinical trials with zolpidem tartrate .
14 . 3 Studies Pertinent to Safety Concerns for Sedative / Hypnotic Drugs Next - day residual effects : Next - day residual effects of zolpidem tartrate were evaluated in seven studies involving normal subjects .
In three studies in adults ( including one study in a phase advance model of transient insomnia ) and in one study in elderly subjects , a small but statistically significant decrease in performance was observed in the Digit Symbol Substitution Test ( DSST ) when compared to placebo .
Studies of zolpidem tartrate in non - elderly patients with insomnia did not detect evidence of next - day residual effects using the DSST , the Multiple Sleep Latency Test ( MSLT ) , and patient ratings of alertness .
Rebound effects : There was no objective ( polysomnographic ) evidence of rebound insomnia at recommended doses seen in studies evaluating sleep on the nights following discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate .
There was subjective evidence of impaired sleep in the elderly on the first post - treatment night at doses of zolpidem tartrate above the recommended elderly dose of 5 mg .
Memory impairment : Controlled studies in adults utilizing objective measures of memory yielded no consistent evidence of next - day memory impairment following the administration of zolpidem tartrate .
However , in one study involving zolpidem doses of 10 and 20 mg , there was a significant decrease in next - morning recall of information presented to subjects during peak drug effect ( 90 minutes post - dose ) , i . e . , these subjects experienced anterograde amnesia .
There was also subjective evidence from adverse event data for anterograde amnesia occurring in association with the administration of zolpidem tartrate , predominantly at doses above 10 mg .
Effects on sleep stages : In studies that measured the percentage of sleep time spent in each sleep stage , zolpidem tartrate has generally been shown to preserve sleep stages .
Sleep time spent in stages 3 and 4 ( deep sleep ) was found comparable to placebo with only inconsistent , minor changes in REM ( paradoxical ) sleep at the recommended dose .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Edluar is supplied as sublingual tablets in two dosage strengths : Tablets are not scored .
Edluar 5 mg sublingual tablets are round white tablets , flat - faced , bevel - edged with debossed V on one side and supplied as : NDC Number Size 0037 - 6050 - 30 carton of 30 tablets ( 3 x 10 tablets ) 0037 - 6050 - 93 carton of 30 tablets ( 5 x 6 tablets ) The blister packs consist of aluminum / aluminum Child Resistant Control ( CRC ) blisters .
Edluar 10 mg sublingual tablets are round white tablets , flat - faced , bevel - edged with debossed X on one side and supplied as : NDC Number Size 0037 - 6010 - 30 carton of 30 tablets ( 3 x 10 tablets ) 0037 - 6010 - 93 carton of 30 tablets ( 5 x 6 tablets ) The blister packs consist of aluminum / aluminum Child Resistant Control ( CRC ) blisters .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Inform patients and their families about the benefits and risks of treatment with Edluar .
Inform patients of the availability of a Medication Guide and instruct them to read the Medication Guide prior to initiating treatment with Edluar and with each prescription refill .
Review the Edluar Medication Guide with every patient prior to initiation of treatment .
Instruct patients or caregivers that Edluar should be taken only as prescribed .
Complex Sleep Behaviors Instruct patients and their families that Edluar may cause complex sleep behaviors , including sleep - walking , sleep - driving , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex while not being fully awake .
Serious injuries and death have occurred during complex sleep behavior episodes .
Tell patients to discontinue Edluar and notify their healthcare provider immediately if they develop any of these symptoms [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
CNS - depressant Effects and Next - Day Impairment Tell patients that Edluar has the potential to cause next - day impairment , and that this risk is increased if dosing instructions are not carefully followed .
Tell patients to wait for at least 8 hours after dosing before driving or engaging in other activities requiring full mental alertness .
Inform patients that impairment can be present despite feeling fully awake .
Advise patients that increased drowsiness and decreased consciousness may increase the risk of falls in some patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients that severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have occurred with zolpidem .
Describe the signs / symptoms of these reactions and advise patients to seek medical attention immediately if any of them occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Suicide Tell patients to immediately report any suicidal thoughts .
Alcohol and Other Drugs Ask patients about alcohol consumption , medicines they are taking , and drugs they may be taking without a prescription .
Advise patients not to use Edluar if they drank alcohol that evening or before bed .
Tolerance , Abuse , and Dependence Tell patients not to increase the dose of Edluar on their own , and to inform you if they believe the drug “ does not work ” .
Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with Edluar .
Advise patients that use of Edluar late in the third trimester may cause respiratory depression and sedation in neonates .
Advise mothers who used Edluar during the late third trimester of pregnancy to monitor neonates for signs of sleepiness ( more than usual ) , breathing difficulties , or limpness [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise breastfeeding mothers using Edluar to monitor infants for increased sleepiness , breathing difficulties , or limpness .
Instruct nursing mothers to seek immediate medical care if they notice these signs .
A lactating woman may consider pumping and discarding breastmilk during treatment and for 23 hours after Edluar administration to minimize drug exposure to a breastfed infant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Patients should be counseled to take Edluar right before they get into bed and only when they are able to stay in bed a full night ( 7 - 8 hours ) before being active again .
Edluar tablets should not be taken with or immediately after a meal .
Advise patients NOT to take Edluar when drinking alcohol that evening or before bed .
Edluar sublingual tablet should be placed under the tongue , where it will disintegrate .
The tablet should not be swallowed and the tablet should not be taken with water .
Medication Guide Edluar ® [ ED ’ – loo - ahr ] ( zolpidem tartrate ) sublingual tablets C - IV Read this Medication Guide that comes with Edluar before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Edluar ?
• • Do not take more Edluar than prescribed .
• • Do not take Edluar unless you are able to stay in bed a full night ( 7 to 8 hours ) before you must be active again .
• • Take Edluar right before you get in bed , not sooner .
Edluar may cause serious side effects , including : • • Complex sleep behaviors that have caused serious injury and death .
After taking Edluar , you may get up out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing ( complex sleep behaviors ) .
The next morning , you may not remember that you did anything during the night .
These activities may occur with Edluar whether or not you drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy .
Reported activities include : • odriving a car ( “ sleep - driving ” ) • omaking and eating food • otalking on the phone • ohaving sex • osleep - walking Stop taking Edluar and call your healthcare provider right away if you find out that you have done any of the above activities after taking Edluar .
Do not take Edluar if you : • • have ever experienced a complex sleep behavior ( such as driving a car , making or eating food , talking on the phone , or having sex ) while not being fully awake after taking Edluar • • drank alcohol that evening or before bed • • took another medicine to help you sleep What is Edluar ?
Edluar is a sedative - hypnotic ( sleep ) medicine .
Edluar is used in adults for the short - term treatment of a sleep problem called insomnia ( trouble falling asleep ) .
It is not known if Edluar is safe and effective in children under the age of 18 years .
Edluar is a class four ( C - IV ) federally controlled substance because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep Edluar in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away Edluar may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your doctor if you have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
Who should not take Edluar ?
• • Do not take Edluar if you are allergic to zolpidem or any other ingredients in Edluar .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in Edluar .
• • Do not take Edluar if you have had an allergic reaction to drugs containing zolpidem , such as Ambien , Ambien CR , Zolpimist , or Intermezzo .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to zolpidem can include : • • swelling of your face , lips , and throat that may cause difficulty breathing or swallowing • • nausea and vomiting What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Edluar ?
Edluar may not be right for you .
Before starting Edluar , tell your healthcare provider about all of your health conditions , including if you : • • have a history of depression , mental illness or , suicidal thoughts • • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • • have kidney or liver disease • • have lung disease or breathing problems • • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the risk to your unborn baby if you take Edluar .
• • using Edluar in the last trimester of pregnancy may cause breathing difficulties or excess sleepiness in your newborn .
Monitor for signs of sleepiness ( more than usual ) , trouble breathing , or limpness in the newborn if Edluar is taken late in pregnancy .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Edluar passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while you take Edluar .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Medicines can interact with each other , sometimes causing serious side effects .
Do not take Edluar with other medicines that can make you sleepy , unless directed by your healthcare provider .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take Edluar ?
• • See “ What is the most important information I should know about Edluar ? ”
• • Take Edluar exactly as prescribed .
Only take 1 Edluar tablet a night and only if needed .
• • Do not take Edluar if you drank alcohol that evening or before bed .
• • You should not take Edluar with or right after a meal .
Edluar may help you fall asleep faster if you take it on an empty stomach .
• • Do not use the tablet if the seal on the childproof blister pack is broken , or if the blister holding the tablet is broken .
• • To open the blister pack , separate the individual blisters at the perforations .
Peel off the top layer of paper , and push the tablet through the foil .
Alternatively , use scissors to open the blister .
• • Place the tablet under the tongue , where it will disintegrate .
Do not swallow or take with water .
• • Call your healthcare provider if your insomnia worsens or is not better within 7 to 10 days .
This may mean that there is another condition causing your sleep problem .
• • If you take too much Edluar or overdose , get emergency treatment .
What are the possible side effects of Edluar ?
Edluar may cause serious side effects , including : • • getting out of bed while not being fully awake and doing an activity that you do not know you are doing .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about Edluar ? ”
• • abnormal thoughts and behavior .
Symptoms include more outgoing or aggressive behavior than normal , confusion , agitation , hallucinations , worsening of depression , suicidal thoughts or actions .
• • memory loss • • anxiety • • severe allergic reactions .
Symptoms include swelling of the tongue or throat , trouble breathing .
Get emergency medical help if you get these symptoms after taking Edluar .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the above side effects or any other side effects that worry you while using Edluar .
The most common side effects of Edluar are : • • drowsiness • • dizziness • • diarrhea • • grogginess or feeling as if you have been drugged • • fatigue • • headache You may still feel drowsy the next day after taking Edluar .
After you stop taking a sleep medicine , you may have symptoms for 1 to 2 days such as : • • trouble sleeping • • nausea • • flushing • • lightheadedness • • uncontrolled crying • • vomiting • • stomach cramps • • panic attack • • nervousness • • stomach area pain These are not all the side effects of Edluar .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Edluar ?
• • Store Edluar at room temperature , between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• • Protect from light and moisture .
Keep Edluar and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Edluar Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Edluar for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share Edluar with other people , even if you think they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about Edluar .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Edluar that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about Edluar , call Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 866 - 444 - 7799 .
What are the ingredients in Edluar ?
Active Ingredient : zolpidem tartrate Inactive Ingredients : mannitol , colloidal silicon dioxide , silicified microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , saccharin sodium , and magnesium stearate .
This Medication Guide has been approved by U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Mylan Laboratories Limited Hyderabad – 500 096 , India Manufactured for : Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 - 4120 © 2022 Viatris Inc .
U . S . Patents 9 , 265 , 720 ; 9 , 597 , 281 EDLUAR is a registered trademark of Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a Viatris company .
The brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners .
MX - IG - 6010 - 03 Rev . 8 / 2022 75092793 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 5 mg Rx Only NDC 0037 - 6050 - 93 EDLUAR ® 5 mg CIV Zolpidem Tartrate Sublingual Tablets Each sublingual tablet ( to be placed under the tongue ) contains 5 mg of zolpidem tartrate , USP .
See prescribing information for dosage information .
30 Sublingual Tablets PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
Do not use if blisters are torn , or seal is broken .
MX - UC - 605093 - 02 Manufactured for : Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 U . S . Patents 9 , 265 , 720 ; 9 , 597 , 281 EDLUAR is a registered trademark of Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a Viatris Company .
Made in India CODE No . : MH / DRUGS / 25 / NKD / 89 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 10 mg Rx Only NDC 0037 - 6010 - 93 EDLUAR ® 10 mg CIV Zolpidem Tartrate Sublingual Tablets Each sublingual tablet ( to be placed under the tongue ) contains 10 mg of zolpidem tartrate , USP .
See prescribing information for dosage information .
30 Sublingual Tablets Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
Do not use if blisters are torn , or seal is broken .
MX - UC - 601093 - 02 Manufactured for : Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 U . S . Patents 9 , 265 , 720 ; 9 , 597 , 281 EDLUAR is a registered trademark of Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . , a Viatris Company .
Made in India CODE No . : MH / DRUGS / 25 / NKD / 89 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
