DESCRIPTION : Desonide Lotion , 0 . 05 % contains desonide ( Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 [ ( 1 methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 11β , 16α ) - a synthetic nonfluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Chemically , desonide is C24H32O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Desonide has the molecular weight of 416 . 51 .
It is a white to off white odorless powder which is soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in water .
Each gram of Desonide Lotion contains 0 . 5 mg of desonide in a base of cetyl alcohol , edetate sodium , glyceryl stearate SE , light mineral oil , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate , sorbitan monostearate , and stearyl alcohol .
May contain citric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Like other topical corticosteroids , desonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with Desonide Lotion indicate that it is in the low to medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desonide Lotion is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses ..
CONTRAINDICATIONS Desonide Lotion is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Patients receiving superpotent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than 2 weeks at a time and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface area to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , Desonide Lotion should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Desonide Lotion should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test A . M . plasma cortisol test Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on reproduction with the use of Desonide Lotion .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category C : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Desonide Lotion .
It is also not known whether Desonide Lotion can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Desonide Lotion should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Desonide Lotion is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ’ s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of desonide was approximately 8 % .
These were : stinging and burning approximately 3 % , irritation , contact dermatitis , condition worsened , peeling of skin , itching , intense transient erythema , and dryness / scaliness , each less than 2 % .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with other topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Desonide Lotion can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Desonide Lotion should be applied to the affected areas as a thin film two or three times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
SHAKE LOTION WELL BEFORE USING .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Desonide Lotion should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Desonide Lotion , 0 . 05 % is supplied in bottles containing : 2 fl oz NDC 0115 - 1517 - 64 4 fl oz NDC 0115 - 1517 - 65 Storage Conditions : Store between 2 ° and 30 ° C ( 36 ° and 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , NJ 08310 Manufactured for : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 12 - 2018 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 oz ( 59 mL ) Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 oz ( 118 mL ) Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
