Drug Facts Active Ingredients Octinoxate 6 % Zinc Oxide 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunscreen • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Linden Flower Tea , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Cetearyl Alcohol , Sodium Cetearyl Sulfate , Glycerin , Shea Butter , Aloe Leaf Juice , Corn Germ Oil , Vitamin A , Vitamin C Ester , Vitamin E , Coenzyme Q10 , Alpha Lipoic Acid , Glyceryl Stearate , Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein , Sorbitol , Diglycerin , Lactic Acid , Lysine , Sodium PCA , Soybean Oil , Methyl Glucose Sesquistearate , Xanthan Gum , Caprylyl Glycol , Vanilla Extract , Lecithin Distributed by Eminence Organic Skin Care # 300 – 530 West Broadway Vancouver , BC , Canada V5Z 1E9 www . eminenceorganics . com Made in Hungary 1 - 888 - 747 - 6342 ( US & Canada Toll Free ) Pamper your skin with this sunscreen cream , which contains herbal ingredients , specifically designed for the face .
Hydrating and revitalizing shea butter combines with the fragrant aroma of vanilla to care for your skin while the SPF 32 formula defends against the sun ’ s harmful rays .
Suitable for all skin types .
Note : Store in controlled temperatures ( 39 – 68 ° F / 4 – 20 ° C ) .
Keep in a dark and dry place .
Keep container tightly closed .
Our products contain all organic fruits , vegetables and herbs .
They do not contain harmful chemicals or animal by - products .
They are not tested on animals and are packaged in environmentally friendly packaging .
Vanilla Body Cream 5 oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
