Indications and Usage Amoxicillin is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible ( ONLY β - lactamase - negative ) strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below : Infections of the ear , nose and throat - due to Streptococcus spp .
( α - and β - hemolytic strains only ) , S . pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp . , or H . influenzae .
Infections of the genitourinary tract - due to E . coli , P . mirabilis , or E . faecalis .
Infections of the skin and skin structure - due to Streptococcus spp .
( α - and β - hemolytic strains only ) , Staphylococcus spp .
or E . coli .
Infections of the lower respiratory tract - due to Streptococcus spp .
( α - and β - hemolytic strains only ) , S . pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp . , or H . influenzae .
Gonorrhea , acute uncomplicated ( ano - genital and urethral infections ) - due to N . gonorrhoeae ( males and females ) .
H . pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Triple Therapy : Amoxicillin / clarithromycin / lansoprazole Amoxicillin , in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy , is indicated for the treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease ( active or l - year history of a duodenal ulcer ) to eradicate H . pylori .
Eradication of H . pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Dual Therapy : Amoxicillin / lansoprazole Amoxicillin , in combination with lansoprazole delayed - release capsules as dual therapy , is indicated for the treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease ( active or 1 - year history of a duodenal ulcer ) who are either allergic or intolerant to clarithromycin or in whom resistance to clarithromycin is known or suspected .
( See the clarithromycin package insert , MICROBIOLOGY . )
Eradication of H . pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and other antibacterial drugs , amoxicillin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed .
Contraindications A history of allergic reaction to any of the penicillins is a contraindication .
Warnings SERIOUS AND OCCASIONALLY FATAL HYPERSENSITIVITY ( ANAPHYLACTIC ) REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS ON PENICILLIN THERAPY .
ALTHOUGH ANAPHYLAXIS IS MORE FREQUENT FOLLOWING PARENTERAL THERAPY , IT HAS OCCURRED IN PATIENTS ON ORAL PENICILLINS .
THESE REACTIONS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR IN INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY AND / OR A HISTORY OF SENSITIVITY TO MULTIPLE ALLERGENS .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE REACTIONS WHEN TREATED WITH CEPHALOSPORINS .
BEFORE INITIATING THERAPY WITH AMOXICILLIN , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS , CEPHALOSPORINS , OR OTHER ALLERGENS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS , AMOXICILLIN SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE THERAPY INSTITUTED .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE .
OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Amoxicillin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Precautions General : The possibility of superinfections with mycotic or bacterial pathogens should be kept in mind during therapy .
If superinfections occur , amoxicillin should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive ampicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus , ampicillin - class antibiotics should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
Prescribing Amoxicillin in the absence of proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Laboratory Tests : As with any potent drug , periodic assessment of renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic function should be made during prolonged therapy .
All patients with gonorrhea should have a serologic test for syphilis of the time of diagnosis .
Patients treated with amoxicillin should have a follow - up serologic test for syphilis after 3 months .
Drug Interactions : Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin .
Concurrent use of amoxicillin and probenecid may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin .
Chloramphenicol , macrolides , sulfonamides , and tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal effects of penicillin .
This has been demonstrated in vitro ; however , the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented .
In common with other antibiotics , amoxicillin may affect the gut flora , leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen / progesterone contraceptives .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : High urine concentrations of ampicillin may result in false - positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict ' s Solution or Fehling ' s Solution .
Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin , it is recommended that glucose tests based an enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( such as CLINISTIX ® ) be used .
Following administration of ampicillin to pregnant women , a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol , estriol - glucuronide , conjugated estrone , and estradiol has been noted .
This effect may also occur with amoxicillin .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Studies to detect mutagenic potential of amoxicillin alone have not been conducted ; however , the following information is available from tests on a 4 : 1 mixture of amoxiollin and potassium clavulanate .
Amoxicillin and potassium clavulanate was non - mutagenic in the Ames bacterial mutation assay , and the yeast gene conversion assay .
Amoxicillin and potassium clavulanate was weakly positive in the mouse lymphoma assay , but the trend toward increased mutation frequencies in this assay occurred at doses that were also associated with decreased cell survival .
Amoxicillin and potassium clavulanate was negative in the mouse micronucleus test , and in the dominant lethal assay in mice .
Potassium clavulanate alone was tested in the Ames bacterial mutation assay and in the mouse micronucleus test , and was negative in each of these assays .
In a multi - generation reproduction study in rats , no impairment of fertility or other adverse reproductive effects were seen at doses up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 3 times the human dose in mg / m2 ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to ten ( 10 ) times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to amoxicillin .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery : Oral ampicillin - class antibiotics are poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pigs showed that intravenous administration of ampicillin slightly decreased the uterine tone and frequency of contractions but moderately increased the height and duration of contractions .
However , it is not known whether use of amoxicillin in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
Nursing Mothers : Penicillins have been shown to be excreted in human milk .
Amoxicillin use by nursing mothers may lead to sensitization of infants .
Caution should be exercised when amoxicillin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Because of incompletely developed renal function in neonates and young infants , the elimination of amoxicillin may be delayed .
Dosing of amoxicillin should be modified in pediatric patients 12 weeks or younger ( ≤ 3 months ) .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – Neonates and Infants ) .
Geriatric Use : An analysis of clinical studies of amoxicillin was conducted to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently from younger subjects .
Of the 1 , 811 subjects treated with capsules of amoxicillin , 85 % were < 60 years old , 15 % were ≥ 61 years old and 7 % were ≥ 71 years old .
This analysis and other reported clinical experience have not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but a greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Information for Patients : Amoxicillin may be taken every 8 hours or every 12 hours , depending on the strength of the product prescribed .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including amoxicillin , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . the common cold ) .
When amoxicillin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by amoxicillin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Adverse Reactions As with other penicillins it may be expected that untoward reactions will be essentially limited to sensitivity phenomena .
They are more likely to occur in individuals who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to penicillins and in those with a history of allergy , asthma , hay fever , or urticaria .
The following adverse reactions have been reported as associated with the use of penicillins : Infections and Infestations : Mucocutaneous candidiasis .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , black hairy tongue , and hemorrhagic / pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or alter antibiotic treatment .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Anaphylaxis ( See WARNING ) Serum sickness - like reactions , erythematous maculopapular rashes , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis , toxic epidermal necrolysis , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , hypersensitivity vasculitis and urticaria have been reported .
NOTE : These hypersensitivity reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and , if necessary , systemic corticosteroids .
Whenever such reactions occur , amoxicillin should be discontinued unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening and amenable only to amoxicillin therapy .
Liver : A moderate rise in AST ( SGOT ) and / or ALT ( SGPT ) has been noted , but the significance of this finding is unknown .
Hepatic dysfunction , including cholestatic jaundice , hepatic cholestasis , and acute cytolytic hepatitis have been reported .
Renal : Crystalluria has also been reported ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems : Anemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
Central Nervous System : Reversible hyperactivity , agitation , anxiety , insomnia , confusion , convulsions , behavioral changes , and / or dizziness have been reported rarely .
Miscellaneous : Tooth discoloration ( brown , yellow or gray staining ) has been rarely reported .
Most reports occurred in pediatric patients .
Discoloration was reduced or eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases .
Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Lansoprazole : In clinical trials using combination therapy with amoxicillin plus clarithromycin and lansoprazole , and amoxicillin plus lansoprazole , no adverse reactions peculiar to these drug combinations were observed .
Adverse reactions that have occurred have been limited to those that had been previously reported with amoxicillin , clarithromycin , or lansoprazole .
Triple Therapy : Amoxicillin / / Clarithromycin / Lansoprazole : The most frequently reported adverse events for patients who received triple therapy were diarrhea ( 7 % ) , headache ( 6 % ) , and taste perversion ( 5 % ) .
No treatment - emergent adverse events were observed at significantly higher rates with triple therapy than with any dual therapy regimen .
Dual therapy : Amoxicillin / Lansoprazole : The most frequently reported adverse events for patients who received amoxicillin three times daily plus lansoprazole three times daily dual therapy were diarrhea ( 8 % ) and headache ( 7 % ) .
No treatment - emergent adverse events were observed at significantly higher rates with amoxicillin three times daily plus lansoprazole three times daily dual therapy than with lansoprazole alone .
For more information on adverse reactions with clarithromycin or lansoprazole , refer to their package inserts , ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Overdosage In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
If the overdosage is very recent and there is no contraindication , an attempt at emesis or other means of removal of drug from the stomach may be performed .
A prospective study of 51 pediatric patients at a poison - control center suggested that overdosages of less than 250 mg / kg of amoxicillin are not associated with significant clinical symptoms and do not require gastric emptying . 3 Interstitial nephritis resulting in oliguric renal failure has been reported in a small number of patients after overdosage with amoxicillin .
Crystalluria , in some cases leading to renal failure , has also been reported after amoxicillin overdosage in adult and pediatric patients .
In case of overdosage , adequate fluid intake and diuresis should be maintained to reduce the risk of amoxicillin crystalluria .
Renal impairment appears to be reversible with cessation of drug administration .
High blood levels may occur more readily in patients with impaired renal function because of decreased renal clearance of amoxicillin .
Amoxicillin may be removed from circulation by hemodialysis .
Dosage and Administration Capsules , tablets , and oral suspensions of amoxicillin may be given without regard to meals .
The 875 - mg tablet has been studied only when administered at the start of a light meal .
However , food effect studies hove not been performed with the 500 - mg formulation .
( Neonates and Infants Aged ≤ 12 weeks ( ≤ 3 months ) : Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group , the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin is 30 mg / kg / day divided q 12 h Adults and Pediatric Patients > 3 Months : ‡ Dosing for infections caused by less susceptible organisms should follow the recommendations for severe infections .
§ The children ’ s dosage is intended for individuals whose weight is less then 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations .
After reconstitution , the required amount of suspension should be placed directly on the child ' s tongue for swallowing .
Alternate means of administration are to add the required amount of suspension to formula , milk , fruit juice , water , ginger ale , or cold drinks .
These preparations should then be taken immediately .
To be certain the child is receiving full dosage , such preparations should be consumed in entirety .
All patients with gonorrhea should be evaluated for syphilis .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Laboratory Tests ) .
Larger doses may be required for stubborn or severe infections .
General : It should be recognized that in the treatment of chronic urinary tract infections , frequent bacteriological and clinical appraisals are necessary .
Smaller doses than those recommended above should not be used .
Even higher doses may be needed at times .
In stubborn infections , therapy may be required for several weeks .
It may be necessary to continue clinical and / or bacteriological follow - up for several months after cessation of therapy .
Except for gonorrhea , treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained .
It is recommended that there be at least 10 days ' treatment for any infection caused by Streptococcus pyogenes to prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever .
H . pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence : Triple therapy : Amoxicillin / clarithromycin / lansoprazole The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin , 500 mg clarithromycin , and 30 mg lansoprazole , all given twice daily ( q 12 h ) for 14 days .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Dual therapy : Amoxicillin / lansoprazole The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin and 30 mg lansoprazole , each given three times daily ( q 8 h ) for 14 days .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Please refer to clarithromycin and lansoprazole full prescribing information for CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS , and for information regarding dosing in elderly and renally impaired patients .
Dosing Recommendation for Adults with Impaired Renal Function : Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe .
Severely impaired patients with a glomerular filtration rate of < 30 mL / minute should not receive the 875 mg tablet .
Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 30 mL / minute should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours , depending on the severity of the infection .
Patients with a less than 10 mL / minute glomerular filtration rate should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection .
Hemodialysis patients should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection .
They should receive on additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis .
There are currently no dosing recommendations for pediatric patients with impaired renal function .
Patient Information For the manufacturer ' s complete drug information , please visit the FDA site : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 5d22f9b8 - 3022 - 42e8 - a427 - fc43c589c92c Amoxicillin may be taken every 8 hours or every 12 hours , depending on the strength of the product prescribed .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including amoxicillin , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . the common cold ) .
When amoxicillin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by amoxicillin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Label Display NDC : 51655 - 157 - 21 Amoxicillan 500 MG 21 Capsules Lot : Exp : Rx Only Store at 20 C to 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) Manufactured by Stada Production Ireland Limited Manufacture Address : Clonmel , Ireland Manufacture NDC : 67253 - 141 - 50 Mfg . Lot : Distributed by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
