Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 1 % Homosalate 10 . 50 % Octisalate 3 . 50 % Octocrylene 7 . 00 % Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F . Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately con - centrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Keep out of reach of children .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a docor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swalled , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Caprylyl Methicone , Parfum / Fragrance , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Mica , Dibutyl Adipate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Mauritia Flexuosa Fruit Oil , Prunus Armeniaca ( Apricot ) Kernel Oil , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Mimosa Tenuiflora Bark Extract , CI 77891 ( Titanium Dioxide ) , CI 77491 ( Iron Oxides ) .
Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
visit Glossier . com , email us at gTEAM @ glossier . com , or call toll - free 1 - 844 - 654 - 8326 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
