INACTIVE INGREDIENTS citric acid , D & C Red # 33 , FD & C Red # 40 , glycerin , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol solution , wild cherry flavor .
INDICATION For treatment of patient with hypokalemia , with or without metabolic alkalosis , in digitalis intoxication .
DIRECTION To minimize gastrointestinal irritation , patients must follow direction regarding dilution .
Each tablespoonful ( 15 mL ) should be diluted with three ( 3 ) fluid ounce or more of water or other liquid .
USUAL ADULT DOSE One ( 1 ) tablespoonful ( 15 mL ) twice daily ( after morning or evening meals ) supplies 40 mEq of potassium .
WARNINGS Discontinue immediately if abdominal pain , distension , nausea , vomiting or gastrointestinal bleeding occurs .
CONTRAINDICATED in the presence of dehydration or impaired kidney function .
Potassium intoxication causes electrocardiographic abnormalities , flaccid paralysis of the skeletal muscles , paresthesias of the extremeties , listlessness , mental confusion , weakness and heaviness of the legs , fall in blood pressure , cardiac arrhythmias .
Frequent checks of the clinical status of the patient , and periodic ECG and / or serum potassium levels should be made .
Potassium intensifies the symptoms of myotonia congenita .
DRUG INTERACTION Interaction with Potassium Sparing Diuretics : Hypokalemia should not be treated by the concomitant administration of potassium salts and potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene or amiloride ) since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Interaction with ACE inhibitors : Angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors ( e . g . , captopril , enlapril ) will produce some potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ACE inhibitors only with close monitoring .
TOXICITY Hyperkalemia , when detected , must be treated immediately because lethal levels can be reached in a few hours .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in USP / NF .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 66 to 77 ° F ) .
Avoid Freezing .
QUESTION Adverse Drug Event : Call ( 866 ) 562 - 4597 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC 16571 - 303 - 16 TAMPER EVIDENT Potassium Chloride Oral Solution , USP 10 % Cherry Flavored Sugar Free Rx only 40 m Eq .
Potassium per 30 mL Replacement therapy for POTASSIUM - Deficiency States To be used for oral administration only .
TAMPER - EVIDENT : Do not use this product if inner foil seal over the mouth of the bottle is cut , torn , broken or missing .
Manufactured by : Bio - Pharm , Incorporated Levittown , PA 19057 Distributed by : PACK ™ Pharmaceuticals PACK Pharmaceuticals , LLC Buffalo Grove , IL 60089 ONE PINT ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
