Active ingredient Docosanol 10 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment Uses • treats cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • shortens healing time and duration of symptoms : • tingling , pain , burning , and / or itching Warnings Allergy Alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product When using this product • apply only to the affected areas • do not use in or near the eyes • avoid applying directly inside your mouth • do not share this product with anyone .
This may spread the infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your cold sore gets worse or the cold sore is not healed within 10 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years or over : • wash hands before and after applying cream • apply to affected area on the face or lips at the first sign of cold sore / fever blister ( tingle ) .
• early treatment ensures the best results • rub in gently but completely • use 5 times a day until healed • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • do not freeze Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , light mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , sucrose distearate , sucrose stearate Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in Abreva ®† COLD SORE / FEVER BLISTER TREATMENT DOCOSANOL CREAM 10 % Non - prescription medicine to shorten healing time .
* Cold sore treatment For topical use only NET WT 2 g ( 0 . 07 OZ ) † This product is not manufactured or distributed by GSK Consumer Healthcare , distributor of Abreva ® .
* Non - prescription cold sore medicine to shorten healing time and duration of symptoms RETAIN THIS INSERT FOR FULL PRODUCT USES , DIRECTIONS AND WARNINGS .
DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID , 30 HUNTER LANE , CAMP HILL , PA 17011 www . riteaid . com Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
