Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • • have very sensitive skin • • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • shake well • • Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• • wet area to be cleansed • • apply acne wash and gently massage area for 1 - 2 minutes • • rinse thoroughly and pat dry • • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer , citric acid * , edetate disodium , glycerin , imidurea , lauryl methacrylate / glycol dimethacrylate crosspolymer , purified water , sodium C14 - 16 olefin sulfonate , sodium hydroxide * may contain this ingredient Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Acne Medication Wash NET WT 5 OZ ( 142 g ) Padagis ™ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
