CIV Rx only DESCRIPTION Chemically , clorazepate dipotassium is a benzodiazepine .
The empirical formula is C16H11ClK2N2O4 ; the molecular weight is 408 . 92 ; 1 H - 1 , 4 - Benzodiazepine - 3 - carboxylic acid , 7 - chloro - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - oxo - 5 - phenyl - , potassium salt compound with potassium hydroxide ( 1 : 1 ) and the structural formula may be represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The compound occurs as a fine , light yellow , practically odorless powder .
It is insoluble in the common organic solvents , but very soluble in water .
Aqueous solutions are unstable , clear , light yellow , and alkaline Clorazepate Dipotassium Tablets , USP for oral administration , contain 3 . 75 mg , 7 . 5 mg or 15 mg of clorazepate dipotassium , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , magnesium oxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , potassium carbonate , sodium chloride , sodium lauryl sulfate and the following coloring agents : 3 . 75 mg - FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake 7 . 5 mg - FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacologically , clorazepate dipotassium has the characteristics of the benzodiazepines .
It has depressant effects on the central nervous system .
The primary metabolite , nordiazepam , quickly appears in the blood stream .
The serum half - life is about 2 days .
The drug is metabolized in the liver and excreted primarily in the urine .
Studies in healthy men have shown that clorazepate dipotassium has depressant effects on the central nervous system .
Prolonged administration of single daily doses as high as 120 mg was without toxic effects .
Abrupt cessation of high doses was followed in some patients by nervousness , insomnia , irritability , diarrhea , muscle aches , or memory impairment .
Since orally administered clorazepate dipotassium is rapidly decarboxylated to form nordiazepam , there is essentially no circulating parent drug .
Nordiazepam , the primary metabolite , quickly appears in the blood and is eliminated from the plasma with an apparent half - life of about 40 to 50 hours .
Plasma levels of nordiazepam increase proportionally with Clorazepate Dipotassium dose and show moderate accumulation with repeated administration .
The protein binding of nordiazepam in plasma is high ( 97 - 98 % ) .
Within 10 days after oral administration of a 15 mg ( 50µCi ) dose of 14 C - Clorazepate Dipotassium to two volunteers , 62 - 67 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine and 15 - 19 % was eliminated in the feces .
Both subjects were still excreting measurable amounts of radioactivity in the urine ( about l % of the 14 C - dose ) on day ten .
Nordiazepam is further metabolized by hydroxylation .
The major urinary metabolite is conjugated oxazepam ( 3 - hydroxynordiazepam ) , and smaller amounts of conjugated p - hydroxynordiazepam and nordiazepam are also found in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clorazepate dipotassium is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
Clorazepate dipotassium tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy in the management of partial seizures .
The effectiveness of clorazepate dipotassium tablets in long - term management of anxiety , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
Long - term studies in epileptic patients , however , have shown continued therapeutic activity .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
Clorazepate dipotassium tablets are indicated for the symptomatic relief of acute alcohol withdrawal .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clorazepate dipotassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug and in those with acute narrow angle glaucoma .
WARNINGS Clorazepate dipotassium tablets are not recommended for use in depressive neuroses or in psychotic reactions .
Patients taking clorazepate dipotassium tablets should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring mental alertness , such as operating dangerous machinery including motor vehicles .
Since clorazepate dipotassium has a central nervous system depressant effect , patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS - depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effects of alcohol may be increased .
Because of the lack of sufficient clinical experience , clorazepate dipotassium tablets are not recommended for use in patients less than 9 years of age .
Physical and Psychological Dependence Withdrawal symptoms ( similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ) have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of clorazepate .
Withdrawal symptoms associated with the abrupt discontinuation of benzodiazepines have included convulsions , delirium , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , nervousness , insomnia , irritability , diarrhea , and memory impairment .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation of clorazepate should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Caution should be observed in patients who are considered to have a psychological potential for drug dependence .
Evidence of drug dependence has been observed in dogs and rabbits which was characterized by convulsive seizures when the drug was abruptly withdrawn or the dose was reduced ; the syndrome in dogs could be abolished by administration of clorazepate .
Usage in Pregnancy An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Clorazepate dipotassium , a benzodiazepine derivative , has not been studied adequately to determine whether it , too , may be associated with an increased risk of fetal abnormality .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Usage during Lactation Clorazepate dipotassium tablets should not be given to nursing mothers since it has been reported that nordiazepam is excreted in human breast milk .
PRECAUTIONS In those patients in which a degree of depression accompanies the anxiety , suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be required .
The least amount of drug that is feasible should be available to the patient .
Patients taking clorazepate dipotassium tablets for prolonged periods should have blood counts and liver function tests periodically .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should also be observed .
In elderly or debilitated patients , the initial dose should be small , and increments should be made gradually , in accordance with the response of the patient to preclude ataxia or excessive sedation .
Information for Patients To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is essential that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
Pediatric Use See WARNINGS .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clorazepate dipotassium studies were not adequate to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently than younger subjects .
Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of all benzodiazepines , including clorazepate dipotassium .
In general , elderly or debilitated patients should be started on lower doses of clorazepate dipotassium tablets and observed closely , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Dose adjustments should also be made slowly , and with more caution in this patient population ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effect most frequently reported was drowsiness .
Less commonly reported ( in descending order of occurrence ) were : dizziness , various gastrointestinal complaints , nervousness , blurred vision , dry mouth , headache , and mental confusion .
Other side effects included insomnia , transient skin rashes , fatigue , ataxia , genitourinary complaints , irritability , diplopia , depression , tremor and slurred speech .
There have been reports of abnormal liver and kidney function tests and of decrease in hematocrit .
Decrease in systolic blood pressure has been observed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the symptomatic relief of anxiety Clorazepate dipotassium tablets are administered orally in divided doses .
The usual daily dose is 30 mg .
The dose should be adjusted gradually within the range of 15 to 60 mg daily in accordance with the response of the patient .
In elderly or debilitated patients it is advisable to initiate treatment at a daily dose of 7 . 5 to 15 mg .
Clorazepate dipotassium tablets may also be administered in a single dose daily at bedtime ; the recommended initial dose is 15 mg .
After the initial dose , the response of the patient may require adjustment of subsequent dosage .
Lower doses may be indicated in the elderly patient .
Drowsiness may occur at the initiation of treatment and with dosage increment .
For the symptomatic relief of acute alcohol withdrawal The following dosage schedule is recommended 1 st 24 hours ( Day 1 ) 30 mg initially , followed by 30 to 60 mg in divided doses 2 nd 24 hours ( Day 2 ) 45 to 90 mg in divided doses 3 rd 24 hours ( Day 3 ) 22 . 5 to 45 mg in divided doses Day 4 15 to 30 mg in divided doses Thereafter , gradually reduce the daily dose to 7 . 5 to 15 mg .
Discontinue drug therapy as soon as patient ' s condition is stable .
The maximum recommended total daily dose is 90 mg .
Avoid excessive reductions in the total amount of drug administered on successive days .
As an Adjunct to Antiepileptic Drugs In order to minimize drowsiness , the recommended initial dosages and dosage increments should not be exceeded .
Adults The maximum recommended initial dose in patients over 12 years old is 7 . 5 mg three times a day .
Dosage should be increased by no more than 7 . 5 mg every week and should not exceed 90 mg / day .
Children ( 9 - 12 years ) The maximum recommended initial dose is 7 . 5 mg two times a day .
Dosage should be increased by no more than 7 . 5 mg every week and should not exceed 60 mg / day .
DRUG INTERACTIONS If clorazepate dipotassium is to be combined with other drugs acting on the central nervous system , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed .
Animal experience indicates that clorazepate dipotassium prolongs the sleeping time after hexobarbital or after ethyl alcohol , increases the inhibitory effects of chlorpromazine , but does not exhibit monoamine oxidase inhibition .
Clinical studies have shown increased sedation with concurrent hypnotic medications .
The actions of the benzodiazepines may be potentiated by barbiturates , narcotics , phenothiazines , monoamine oxidase inhibitors or other antidepressants .
If clorazepate dipotassium tablets are used to treat anxiety associated with somatic disease states , careful attention must be paid to possible drug interaction with concomitant medication .
In bioavailability studies with normal subjects , the concurrent administration of antacids at therapeutic levels did not significantly influence the bioavailability of clorazepate dipotassium tablets .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage is usually manifested by varying degrees of CNS depression ranging from slight sedation to coma .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
The treatment of overdosage should consist of the general measures employed in the management of overdosage of any CNS depressant .
Gastric evacuation either by the induction of emesis , lavage , or both , should be performed immediately .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient is indicated .
Hypotension though rarely reported , may occur with large overdoses .
In such cases the use of agents such as Levophed ® Bitartrate ( norepinephrine bitartrate injection , USP ) or Aramine ® Injection metaraminol bitartrate injection , USP ) should be considered .
While reports indicate that individuals have survived overdoses of clorazepate dipotassium as high as 450 to 675 mg , these doses are not necessarily an accurate indication of the amount of drug absorbed since the time interval between ingestion and the institution of treatment was not always known .
Sedation in varying degrees was the most common physiological manifestation of clorazepate dipotassium overdosage .
Deep coma when it occurred was usually associated with the ingestion of other drugs in addition to clorazepate dipotassium .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation , and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for resedation , respiratory depression , and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND TOXICOLOGY Studies in rats and monkeys have shown a substantial difference between doses producing tranquilizing , sedative and toxic effects .
In rats , conditioned avoidance response was inhibited at an oral dose of 10 mg / kg ; sedation was induced at 32 mg / kg ; the LD50 was 1320 mg / kg .
In monkeys aggressive behavior was reduced at an oral dose of 0 . 25 mg / kg ; sedation ( ataxia ) was induced at 7 . 5 mg / kg ; the LD50 could not be determined because of the emetic effect of large doses , but the LD50 exceeds 1600 mg / kg .
Twenty - four dogs were given clorazepate dipotassium orally in a 22 - month toxicity study ; doses up to 75 mg / kg were given .
Drug - related changes occurred in the liver ; weight was increased and cholestasis with minimal hepatocellular damage was found , but lobular architecture remained well preserved .
Eighteen rhesus monkeys were given oral doses of clorazepate dipotassium from 3 to 36 mg / kg daily for 52 weeks .
All treated animals remained similar to control animals .
Although total leucocyte count remained within normal limits it tended to fall in the female animals on the highest doses .
Examination of all organs revealed no alterations attributable to clorazepate dipotassium .
There was no damage to liver function or structure .
Reproduction Studies Standard fertility , reproduction , and teratology studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
Oral doses in rats up to 150 mg / kg and in rabbits up to 15 mg / kg produced no abnormalities in the fetuses .
Clorazepate dipotassium did not alter the fertility indices or reproductive capacity of adult animals .
As expected , the sedative effect of high doses interfered with care of the young by their mothers ( see Usage in Pregnancy ) .
HOW SUPPLIED The 7 . 5 mg tablets are peach round , scored tablets debossed with M above the score and 40 below the score on one side of the tablet and blank on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 67046 - 906 - 30 blister of 30 tablets Recommended storage Protect from moisture .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 70 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room temperature ] .
Dispense in a USP tight , light - resistant container .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 Repackaged by : Contract Pharmacy Services - PA 125 Titus Ave Suite 200 Warrington , PA 18976 USA Original -- 3 / 2011 -- NJW Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
