Warnings and Precautions , Methemoglobinemia ( 5 . 1 ) 11 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KOVANAZE TM is indicated for regional anesthesia when performing a restorative procedure on Teeth 4 - 13 and A - J in adults and children who weigh 40 kg or more .
KOVANAZE contains tetracaine HCl , an ester local anesthetic , and oxymetazoline HCl , a vasoconstrictor .
KOVANAZE is indicated for regional anesthesia when performing a restorative procedure on Teeth 4 - 13 and A - J in adults and children who weigh 40 kg or more ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION KOVANAZE is for intranasal use only ( 2 ) .
Administer KOVANAZE ipsilateral ( on the same side ) to the maxillary tooth on which the dental procedure will be performed .
Age Group Dose Adults ( ≥ 18 years old ) 2 sprays ( 0 . 2 mL per spray ) , 4 to 5 minutes apart 1 additional spray ( 0 . 2 mL ) if adequate anesthesia has not been achieved 10 minutes after the second spray Children who weigh 40 kg or more 2 sprays ( 0 . 2 mL per spray ) , 4 to 5 minutes apart 2 . 1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions • KOVANAZE is for intranasal use only .
• Administer ipsilateral ( same side ) to the maxillary tooth on which the dental procedure will be performed .
• Wait 10 minutes after administration of KOVANAZE to perform a test drill to confirm that the tooth involved is anesthetized .
A patient may not experience the same sensations of numbness or tingling of the lips and cheeks associated with injectable dental anesthetics .
2 . 2 Dosing in Adults ( ≥ 18 years old ) • 2 sprays ( 0 . 2 mL each ) administered 4 to 5 minutes apart in the nostril ipsilateral to the maxillary tooth on which the dental procedure will be performed .
Initiate the dental procedure 10 minutes after the second spray .
• 1 additional spray ( 0 . 2 mL ) if adequate anesthesia to initiate the dental procedure has not been achieved 10 minutes after the second spray .
2 . 3 Dosing in Children ( who weigh 40 kg or more ) • 2 sprays ( 0 . 2 mL each ) administered 4 to 5 minutes apart in the nostril ipsilateral to the maxillary tooth on which the dental procedure will be performed .
Initiate the dental procedure 10 minutes after the second spray .
Age Group Dose Adults ( ≥ 18 years old ) • 2 sprays ( 0 . 2 mL per spray ) , 4 to 5 minutes apart • 1 additional spray ( 0 . 2 mL ) if adequate anesthesia has not been achieved 10 minutes after the second spray Children who weigh 40 kg or more • 2 sprays ( 0 . 2 mL per spray ) , 4 to 5 minutes apart 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Nasal spray in pre - filled , single - dose sprayer : 6 mg tetracaine HCl and 0 . 1 mg oxymetazoline HCl ( equivalent to 5 . 27 mg tetracaine and 0 . 088 mg oxymetazoline ) in each 0 . 2 mL spray .
Nasal spray in pre - filled , single - dose sprayer : 6 mg tetracaine HCl and 0 . 1 mg oxymetazoline HCl ( equivalent to 5 . 27 mg tetracaine and 0 . 088 mg oxymetazoline ) in each 0 . 2 mL spray ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS KOVANAZE is contraindicated in patients with a history of allergy to or intolerance of tetracaine , benzyl alcohol , other ester local anesthetics , p - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , oxymetazoline , or any other component of the product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to tetracaine , benzyl alcohol , other ester local anesthetics , p - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , oxymetazoline , or any other component of the product ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use ( 5 . 1 ) Hypertension and Thyroid Disease : Shown to increase blood pressure in some clinical trial patients .
Monitor blood pressure .
Use in patients with inadequately controlled hypertension or active thyroid disease is not advised ( 5 . 2 ) .
Epistaxis : Use is not recommended in patients with a history of frequent nose bleeds ( ≥ 5 per month ) .
If a decision to use is made , monitor these patients carefully ( 5 . 3 ) .
Dysphagia : Carefully monitor patients for dysphagia ( 5 . 4 ) .
Anaphylactic Reactions : Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs ( 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue KOVANAZE and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
5 . 2 Risk of Hypertension KOVANAZE has not been studied in Phase 3 trials in adult dental patients with blood pressure greater than 150 / 100 or in those with inadequately controlled active thyroid disease .
KOVANAZE has been shown to increase blood pressure in some patients in clinical trials .
Monitor patients for increased blood pressure .
Use in patients with uncontrolled hypertension or inadequately controlled active thyroid disease of any type is not advised [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Epistaxis In clinical trials , epistaxis occurred more frequently with KOVANAZE than placebo .
Either do not use KOVANAZE in patients with a history of frequent nose bleeds ( ≥ 5 per month ) or monitor patients with frequent nose bleeds more carefully if KOVANAZE is used .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Dysphagia In clinical trials , dysphagia occurred more frequently with KOVANAZE than placebo .
Carefully monitor patients for this adverse reaction .
5 . 5 Anaphylactic Reactions Allergic or anaphylactic reactions have been associated with tetracaine , and may occur with other components of KOVANAZE .
They are characterized by urticaria , angioedema , bronchospasm , and shock .
If an allergic reaction occurs , seek emergency help immediately .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Epistaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Dysphagia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Anaphylatic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions occurring in > 10 % of patients include rhinorrhea , nasal congestion , nasal discomfort , oropharyngeal pain , and lacrimation increased ( 6 ) .
Transient , asymptomatic elevations in systolic blood pressure ( ≥ 25 mm Hg from baseline ) and diastolic blood pressures ( ≥ 15 mm Hg from baseline ) have been reported ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact St . Renatus , LLC at 800 - 865 - 4925 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The adverse reactions information described below is from Phase 3 randomized , controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
These data reflect exposure to KOVANAZE in 154 adult dental patients and 20 pediatric dental patients ( aged 7 to 17 years ) with a need for an operative restorative dental procedure requiring local anesthesia for a single vital maxillary tooth ( other than a maxillary first , second , or third molar ) with no evidence of pulpal pathology .
[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Common Adverse Reactions in Adult Dental Patients and Pediatric Patients Weighing 40 kg or More The most common adverse reactions to occur in Phase 3 trials with KOVANAZE in adult dental patients and pediatric dental patients weighing 40 kg or more were rhinorrhea , nasal congestion , nasal discomfort , oropharyngeal pain , and lacrimation increased [ Table 1 ] .
No serious adverse events with KOVANAZE have occurred [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions in ≥ 2 % of Phase 3 Adult Dental Patients and Pediatric Patients Weighing 40 kg or MoreSOC / Preferred Term KOVANAZE ( N = 174 ) Active Comparator * ( N = 54 ) Placebo ( N = 88 ) Respiratory System Disorders 141 ( 81 % ) 50 ( 93 % ) 18 ( 21 % ) Rhinorrhea ( runny nose ) 91 ( 52 % ) 20 ( 37 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Nasal congestion 56 ( 32 % ) 34 ( 63 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) Nasal discomfort 45 ( 26 % ) 7 ( 13 % ) 5 ( 6 % ) Oropharyngeal pain ( sore throat ) 25 ( 14 % ) 5 ( 9 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Intranasal hypoesthesia 18 ( 10 % ) 8 ( 15 % ) 5 ( 6 % ) Pharyngeal hypoesthesia ( numb throat ) 17 ( 10 % ) 10 ( 19 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Throat Irritation 15 ( 9 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Rhinalgia 10 ( 6 % ) 3 ( 6 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) Sneezing 7 ( 4 % ) 2 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Epistaxis 4 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 4 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Nasal Dryness 4 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Nervous System Disorders 39 ( 22 % ) 5 ( 9 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) Headache 18 ( 10 % ) 3 ( 6 % ) 4 ( 5 % ) Dysgeusia 14 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Sinus headache 5 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Dizziness 5 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Sensory Disturbance 4 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Eye Disorders 29 ( 17 % ) 8 ( 15 % ) 4 ( 5 % ) Lacrimation increased ( watery eye ) 23 ( 13 % ) 6 ( 11 % ) 4 ( 5 % ) Gastrointestinal Disorders 16 ( 9 % ) 5 ( 9 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Oral Discomfort 4 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Investigations 12 ( 7 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 4 ( 5 % ) BP systolic increased 8 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) BP diastolic increased 6 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Cardiac Disorders 8 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 9 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Bradycardia 5 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 6 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Vascular Disorders 6 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Hypertension 5 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) * Active Comparator was tetracaine only spray used in two clinical studies in adults .
Intranasal ulcerations , some of which were transient , were noted to have occurred following treatment with KOVANAZE .
In Phase 3 trials , 6 ( 3 % ) patients who received KOVANAZE , but no patients who received placebo , developed nasal ulcers that were present on exam the same day as KOVANAZE dosing .
Three ( 2 % ) KOVANAZE and 2 ( 2 % ) placebo - treated patients without nasal ulcerations on the day of KOVANAZE or placebo dosing were observed to have nasal ulcerations at the next day follow - up visit .
Less Common Adverse Reactions in Phase 3 Clinical Trials Adult Dental Patients and Pediatric Dental Patients Weighing 40 kg or More Dysphagia ( i . e . , the sensation of difficult swallowing ) is a notable adverse reaction reported in Phase 3 trials , occurring in 1 . 15 % of patients .
For medical advice about adverse reactions , contact your medical professional .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact St . Renatus , LLC at 800 - 865 - 4925 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch / .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) : Concomitant use of MAOIs , nonselective beta adrenergic antagonists , or tricyclic antidepressants may cause hypertension and is not recommended ( 7 . 2 ) .
Oxymetazoline - containing products : Discontinue use 24 hours prior to KOVANAZE administration ( 7 . 3 ) .
Intranasal products : Avoid concomitant use ( 7 . 4 ) .
7 . 1 Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with KOVANAZE Patients who are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric oxide , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate , Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine 7 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of KOVANAZE in combination with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , nonselective beta adrenergic antagonists , or tricyclic antidepressants may cause hypertension and is not recommended .
Alternative anesthetic agents should be chosen for patients who cannot discontinue use of MAOIs , nonselective beta adrenergic antagonists , or tricyclic antidepressants .
7 . 3 Oxymetazoline - containing Products Concomitant use with other oxymetazoline - containing products ( such as Afrin ® ) has not been adequately studied .
Use of KOVANAZE with other products containing oxymetazoline may increase risk of hypertension , bradycardia , and other adverse events associated with oxymetazoline .
Discontinue use 24 hours prior to administration of KOVANAZE .
7 . 4 Intranasal Products Oxymetazoline has been known to slow the rate , but not affect the extent of absorption of concomitantly administered intranasal products .
Do not administer other intranasal products with KOVANAZE .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited published data on tetracaine use in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform any risks .
Published epidemiologic studies of nasal oxymetazoline used as a decongestant during pregnancy do not identify a consistent association with any specific malformation or pattern of malformations [ see Data ] .
In animal reproduction and development studies , oxymetazoline given subcutaneously to rats during the period of organogenesis caused structural abnormalities at a dose approximately 7 . 6 times the exposure of oxymetazoline HCl at the 0 . 3 mg maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of KOVANAZE .
In a pre - and post - natal development study , oxymetazoline given subcutaneously to rats caused embryo - fetal toxicity manifested by reduced implantation sites and live litter sizes at approximately 1 . 5 times the MRHD and increased pup mortality at 6 times the MRHD .
No adverse developmental effects were observed following subcutaneous administration of tetracaine HCl only to rats and rabbits during organogenesis at 32 and 6 times , respectively , the estimated exposure of tetracaine HCl at the 18 mg MRHD of KOVANAZE [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 and to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published epidemiologic studies of nasal oxymetazoline used as a decongestant during pregnancy do not identify a consistent association with any specific malformation or pattern of malformations .
These data are limited by the small number of cases exposed , multiple comparisons which may have resulted in chance findings , and analyses based on decongestants as a group .
Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study , pregnant rats were administered subcutaneous doses of oxymetazoline HCl only at 0 . 1 mg / kg , tetracaine HCl only at 7 . 5 mg / kg , or oxymetazoline HCl at 0 . 01 , 0 . 03 , and 0 . 1 mg / kg / day in combination with 7 . 5 mg / kg tetracaine HCl during the period of organogenesis ( Gestational Days [ GD ] 7 - 17 ) .
Oxymetazoline HCl treatment at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 7 . 6 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of KOVANAZE [ 3 mg oxymetazoline HCl and 18 mg tetracaine HCl ] ) caused reduced fetal weight and structural abnormalities including external and skeletal malformations ( e . g . , short forelimb digits , fused arches in thoracic vertebrae , fused ribs , and irregular number of ribs ) , and variations ( e . g . , irregularly shaped arches and increased bifid centra in thoracic vertebrae , and un - ossified forelimb phalanx ) in the presence of maternal toxicity ( reduced food consumption , body weight gain , and absolute body weight ) ; however , the structural abnormality findings cannot be clearly attributed to the maternal toxicity .
Adverse developmental effects were not observed when pregnant rats were co - administered the same dose of oxymetazoline HCl in combination with 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl , or with 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl alone .
The no - observed - adverse - effect - level ( NOAEL ) for fetal effects was 0 . 03 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline HCl ( 1 . 5 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD ) and 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl ( 30 times the AUC exposure as measured by PBBA [ major tetracaine metabolite ] at the MRHD ) .
In other embryo - fetal development studies , tetracaine base alone administered subcutaneously did not cause structural abnormalities in rats at doses up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 . 1 times the MRHD level of 18 mg tetracaine HCl by body surface area ( BSA ) comparison ) or in rabbits at subcutaneous doses up to 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 . 1 times the MRHD level by BSA comparison ) .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study , pregnant rats were given subcutaneous doses of oxymetazoline HCl only at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day , tetracaine HCl only at 7 . 5 mg / kg / day , and oxymetazoline HCl at 0 . 01 , 0 . 03 , and 0 . 1 mg / kg / day in combination with 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl from GD 7 to Lactation Day [ LD ] 20 ( corresponding to the beginning of organogenesis through parturition and subsequent pup weaning ) .
Oxymetazoline HCl treatment decreased the mean number of implant sites / litter at ≥ 0 . 03 mg / kg ( ≥ 1 . 5 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD ) when administered with 7 . 5 mg / kg tetracaine HCl ( approximately 9 % ) and without tetracaine HCl ( 5 . 5 % ) , which resulted in a reduction in live litter sizes in these groups .
At the end of the lactation period , fetal body weights were significantly decreased at 0 . 1 mg / kg oxymetazoline HCl ( 6 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD ) when administered alone ( 19 % ) and co - administered with 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl ( 11 % ) .
In addition , a decrease in pup survival was observed at the 0 . 1 / 7 . 5 mg / kg oxymetazoline HCl / tetracaine HCl dose ( 91 . 9 % ) compared to the control ( 99 . 6 % ) , but no effects in any other groups .
Maternal toxicity ( e . g . , mortality and reduced body weight gain , absolute body weight and food consumption ) occurred in groups administered 0 . 1 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline HCl ; however , the adverse developmental findings observed at this dose cannot clearly be attributed to the maternal toxicity .
There were no adverse effects on sexual maturation , neurobehavioral , or reproductive function in the offspring at any maternal dose .
The no - effect level for oxymetazoline HCl for maternal reproduction was 0 . 01 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 times oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD ) and for pup growth and development was 0 . 03 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 5 times oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD ) .
The no - effect level for tetracaine HCl for maternal reproduction and pup growth and development was 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the AUC exposure as measured by PBBA at the MRHD ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tetracaine , oxymetazoline , or their metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Detectable levels of oxymetazoline , tetracaine and the major metabolite of tetracaine , p - butylaminobenzoic acid ( PBBA ) , were found in the milk of lactating rats following subcutaneous administration of oxymetazoline HCl in combination with tetracaine HCl during the period of organogenesis through parturition and subsequent pup weaning [ see Data ] .
Due to species - specific differences in lactation physiology , animal data may not reliably predict drug levels in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for KOVANAZE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from KOVANAZE or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data In a pre - and post - natal development study , rats were given oxymetazoline HCl subcutaneously at doses of 0 . 01 , 0 . 03 , and 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 6 , 1 . 5 , and 7 . 6 times , respectively , the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD ) in combination with 7 . 5 mg / kg tetracaine HCl ( 12 times the AUC exposure as measured by PBBA at the MRHD ) from Gestational Day [ GD ] 7 to Lactation Day [ LD ] 20 .
Concentrations of oxymetazoline , tetracaine , and PBBA were measured in the milk of lactating rats at approximately 2 hours postdose on LD 15 .
The concentrations of oxymetazoline were generally dose dependent ( 2 . 5 , 7 . 0 , and 33 . 8 ng / mL at 0 . 01 , 0 . 03 , and 0 . 1 mg / kg / day , respectively ) .
The concentrations of tetracaine and PBBA were generally similar across all 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl dosing groups regardless of the presence of oxymetazoline ( 54 . 2 – 72 . 9 ng / mL for tetracaine , and 100 . 5 – 131 . 2 ng / mL for PBBA ) .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility No information is available on fertility effects in humans .
Females Based on animal data , KOVANAZE may reduce fertility in females of reproductive potential .
In female rats , decreased fertility noted as a decrease in litter size occurred at 0 . 7 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD of KOVANAZE .
It is not known if the effects on fertility are reversible [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Males Based on animal data , KOVANAZE may reduce male fertility .
In male rats , decreased sperm motility and sperm concentration occurred at approximately 2 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD of KOVANAZE [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use KOVANAZE has not been studied in pediatric patients under 3 years of age and is not advised for use in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg because efficacy has not been demonstrated in these patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of KOVANAZE did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Monitor geriatric patients for signs of local anesthetic toxicity , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Of note , comparisons of KOVANAZE safety and efficacy results were generally similar among dental patients who were > 50 years old ( n = 66 ) and ≤ 50 years old ( n = 148 ) .
However , a trend toward a higher incidence of notable increases in systolic blood pressure was observed in dental patients > 50 years of age compared with patients ≤ 50 years of age ( 16 . 6 % vs 1 . 4 , respectively ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
These increases in blood pressure measurements were generally asymptomatic and transient in nature , and all spontaneously resolved without the need for medical intervention [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Disease Because of an inability to metabolize local anesthetics , those patients with severe hepatic disease may be at a greater risk of developing toxic plasma concentrations of tetracaine .
Monitor patients with hepatic disease for signs of local anesthetic toxicity .
8 . 7 Pseudocholinesterase Deficiency Because of an inability to metabolize local anesthetics , those patients with pseudocholinesterase deficiency may be at a greater risk of developing toxic plasma concentrations of tetracaine .
Monitor patients with pseudocholinesterase deficiency for signs of local anesthetic toxicity .
10 OVERDOSAGE No addictive properties have been reported in the literature for either tetracaine or oxymetazoline , but there have been numerous case reports of unintended overdose for both compounds .
Side effects in adults and children associated with oxymetazoline overdose include dizziness , chest pain , headaches , myocardial infarction , stroke , visual disturbances , arrhythmia , hypertension , or hypotension .
Side effects of tetracaine overdose include rapid circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and cerebral events .
Possible rebound nasal congestion , irritation of nasal mucosa , and adverse systemic effects ( particularly in children ) , including serious cardiac events , have been associated with overdosage and / or prolonged or too frequent intranasal use of oxymetazoline containing agents .
Accidental ingestion of imidazoline derivatives ( i . e . , oxymetazoline , naphazoline , tetrahydrozoline ) in children has resulted in serious adverse events requiring hospitalization ( e . g . , coma , bradycardia , decreased respiration , sedation , and somnolence ) .
Patients should be instructed to avoid using oxymetazoline - containing products ( such as Afrin ® ) and other α - adrenergic agonists within 24 hours prior to their scheduled dental procedure [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Management of an overdose includes close monitoring , supportive care , and symptomatic treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION KOVANAZE ( tetracaine HCl and oxymetazoline HCl ) Nasal Spray is a clear aqueous solution in a pre - filled , single - dose intranasal sprayer .
The solution pH is 6 . 0 ± 1 . 0 .
The product contains two active ingredients : 30 mg / mL tetracaine HCl ( equivalent to 26 . 4 mg / mL tetracaine ) and 0 . 5 mg / mL oxymetazoline hydrochloride ( equivalent to 0 . 44 mg / mL oxymetazoline ) .
Each spray delivers 0 . 2 mL of solution containing 6 mg tetracaine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 5 . 27 mg tetracaine ) and 0 . 1 mg of oxymetazoline hydrochloride ( equivalent to 0 . 088 mg oxymetazoline ) .
The product also contains citric acid , sodium citrate , hydroxyethylcellulose , benzyl alcohol , and water .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid are added for pH adjustment as needed .
Tetracaine hydrochloride is an ester local anesthetic .
Chemically it is 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl 4 - ( butylamino ) benzoate hydrochloride .
Its molecular weight is 300 . 8 for the hydrochloride salt and 264 . 4 for the free base .
It is freely soluble in water and soluble in ethanol .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxymetazoline hydrochloride is a vasoconstrictor .
Chemically it is 3 - [ ( 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1 H - imidazol - 2 - yl ) methyl ] - 6 - ( 1 , 1 , - dimethylethyl ) - 2 , 4 - dimethylphenol mono - hydrochloride .
Its molecular weight is 296 . 8 for the hydrochloride salt and 260 . 4 for the free base .
It is freely soluble in water and ethanol and has a partition coefficient of 0 . 1 in octanol / water .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tetracaine is a local anesthetic of the ester type and exerts its activity by blocking sodium ion channels required for the initiation and conduction of neuronal impulses .
Oxymetazoline is an imidazoline derivative with sympathomimetic activity .
It is believed to be a mixed α 1 / α 2 - adrenoceptor agonist and , by stimulating adrenergic receptors , it elicits vasoconstriction of dilated arterioles and reduces nasal blood flow .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following nasal administration of 0 . 6 mL KOVANAZE in adult subjects ( n = 24 ) , oxymetazoline attained maximum concentrations within approximately 10 minutes following the end of dosing .
The observed mean oxymetazoline C max and AUC 0 - inf value were 1 . 78 ng / mL and 4 . 24 ng . h / mL , respectively .
The observed median T max was 5 minutes .
Plasma concentrations of tetracaine in all subjects were at or below the limit of assay quantification ( 0 . 05 ng / mL ) .
Of all plasma samples analyzed , only one quantifiable tetracaine concentration was observed in a single sample from one subject , which was at the limit of assay quantification .
The primary metabolite of tetracaine , p - butylaminobenzoic acid ( PBBA ) achieved peak concentrations within approximately 25 minutes following the end of KOVANAZE dosing .
The observed mean PBBA C max and AUC 0 - inf value were 465 ng / mL and 973 ng . h / mL , respectively .
The observed median T max was 20 minutes .
Distribution Protein binding and distribution of oxymetazoline and PBBA have not been determined .
Plasma protein binding of tetracaine has been reported to be 75 % to 85 % .
Elimination The terminal half - life of oxymetazoline in plasma following nasal administration of KOVANAZE to adult subjects is approximately 5 . 2 hours .
The elimination half - life and apparent clearance of tetracaine could not be determined after KOVANAZE administration because it is rapidly and thoroughly hydrolyzed in plasma .
The plasma half - life of PBBA is approximately 2 . 6 hours in adult subjects .
Metabolism Oxymetazoline is converted to a glucuronide conjugate in vitro by UGT1A9 .
Tetracaine is rapidly and thoroughly cleaved by esterases in plasma and other tissues to PBBA and dimethylaminoethanol .
These metabolites have an unspecified activity .
Excretion The apparent clearance of oxymetazoline after nasal administration of KOVANAZE has not been determined .
It is thought that the primary route of oxymetazoline elimination at clinically relevant concentrations is by renal excretion .
PBBA clearance cannot be determined after administration of tetracaine .
Special Populations Pediatrics : In subjects 4 - 15 years of age ( n = 18 ) that received KOVANAZE doses of 0 . 1 mL ( 10 to < 20 kg body weight ) , 0 . 2 mL ( 20 to < 40 kg ) , or 0 . 4 mL ( ≥ 40 kg ) , oxymetazoline attained maximum concentrations within approximately 10 minutes to 30 minutes ( median time ) following the end of dosing .
The observed oxymetazoline mean C max values were 0 . 37 ± 0 . 43 , 0 . 85 ± 0 . 45 , and 1 . 2 ± 0 . 39 ng / mL in the 0 . 1 mL , 0 . 2 mL , and 0 . 4 mL dose groups , respectively .
The observed oxymetazoline mean AUC 0 - inf values were 0 . 99 ( AUC can be calculated only in one subject ) , 2 . 53 ± 1 . 08 , and 2 . 64 ± 0 . 41 ng . h / mL in the 0 . 1 mL , 0 . 2 mL , and 0 . 4 mL dose groups , respectively .
Mean elimination half - life values for oxymetazoline were approximately 1 . 6 to 4 . 3 hours across pediatric dose groups .
Plasma concentrations of tetracaine were below the limit of assay quantification ( 0 . 05 ng / mL ) in all subjects .
PBBA attained maximum concentrations within approximately 20 minutes to 30 minutes ( median time ) following the end of dosing .
The observed PBBA mean C max values were 166 ± 71 , 345 ± 172 , and 365 ± 30 ng / mL in the 0 . 1 mL , 0 . 2 mL , and 0 . 4 mL dose groups , respectively .
The observed PBBA mean AUC 0 - inf values were 529 ± 222 , 826 ± 606 , and 665 ± 86 ng . h / mL in the 0 . 1 mL , 0 . 2 mL , and 0 . 4 mL dose groups , respectively .
Mean elimination half - life values for PBBA were approximately 1 . 6 to 2 . 8 hours across pediatric dose groups .
Elderly : The pharmacokinetics of KOVANAZE were not evaluated in subjects greater than 50 years of age .
Renal or Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of oxymetazoline , tetracaine , and PBBA were not evaluated after nasal administration of KOVANAZE in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment .
Race : There were insufficient data to evaluate the effect of race on oxymetazoline , tetracaine , and PBBA pharmacokinetics after nasal administration of KOVANAZE .
13 NON - CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of tetracaine or oxymetazoline .
Mutagenesis Tetracaine base was negative in the in vitro Ames bacterial reverse mutation assay and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In the in vitro chromosome aberration assay using Chinese hamster ovary cells , tetracaine base was negative in the absence of metabolic activation , and equivocal in the presence of metabolic activation .
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the mutagenic potential of oxymetazoline .
Impairment of Fertility Male and female rats were given subcutaneous doses of oxymetazoline HCl alone at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day , tetracaine HCl alone at 7 . 5 mg / kg / day , or the combination of oxymetazoline HCl at 0 . 01 , 0 . 03 , or 0 . 1 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline with 7 . 5 mg / kg / day tetracaine HCl prior to and during mating .
Oxymetazoline HCl at ≥ 0 . 03 mg / kg / day reduced the percentage of motile sperm and sperm counts at 2 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD of KOVANAZE .
There were no effects on male mating behavior at any dose tested .
The no - effect level for sperm effects was 0 . 01 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD of KOVANAZE ) .
In female rats , a reduction in the number of viable embryos was observed at oxymetazoline AUC exposures equivalent to 0 . 7 times the MRHD and higher , given alone or in combination with tetracaine HCl .
Reduced numbers of corpora lutea and implantation sites were observed at 7 . 5 times the oxymetazoline AUC exposure at the MRHD in animals given oxymetazoline HCl alone or in combination with tetracaine HCl .
These effects were attributed to oxymetazoline HCl because similar effects were not observed in rats given tetracaine HCl alone .
A no - effect level for fertility in female rats was not established in this study .
No effects on male or female fertility were attributed to tetracaine HCl at 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 28 and 33 times the AUC exposure for males and females , respectively , as measured by PBBA [ major tetracaine metabolite ] at the MRHD of KOVANAZE ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of KOVANAZE Nasal Spray for regional anesthesia when performing a restorative procedure on Teeth 4 - 13 and A - J has been evaluated in three adult dental patient studies , as well as one pediatric dental patient study .
The primary endpoint for all four studies was the successful completion of a restorative operative dental procedure without the need for a rescue injection .
One adult dental study was terminated early for reasons related to the administration of KOVANAZE .
Unlike the other studies conducted , in this study all three sprays were delivered horizontally .
14 . 1 Studies in Adults Study 1 Study 1 was a Phase 3 , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo and active - controlled , parallel - groups study designed to compare the efficacy and safety of intranasally administered KOVANAZE to both tetracaine HCl alone and placebo , for providing dental anesthesia sufficient to allow completion of the standard dental procedure on a single maxillary tooth ( # 4 - 13 ) in adults .
A total of 110 patients were enrolled in two clinical centers and randomized to receive three 0 . 2 mL intranasal sprays of either KOVANAZE ( n = 44 ) , tetracaine alone ( n = 44 ) , or placebo ( n = 22 ) .
All randomized patients completed the study dental procedure .
Fifty - three percent ( 53 % ) of randomized patients were female and 76 % were White , with a mean age of 35 years ( range 18 to 73 years ) .
Eighty - four percent ( 95 % CI : 70 % , 93 % ) of KOVANAZE patients were able to complete the dental procedure without the need for rescue medication compared to 27 % ( 95 % CI : 15 % , 43 % ) who received tetracaine alone and 27 % ( 95 % CI : 11 % , 50 % ) who received placebo .
KOVANAZE had a lower success rate for dental procedures on the 2 nd pre - molar ( teeth # 4 and # 13 ) compared with more anterior teeth ( # 5 through # 12 ) : 63 % for the 2 nd pre - molars vs 96 % for more anterior teeth .
In this trial , the median duration of a dental procedure successfully completed with KOVANAZE was 11 minutes , although one successfully completed dental procedure was as long as 43 minutes .
Of the people that needed rescue medication in the KOVANAZE arm , they required it within the first 6 minutes following the start of the dental procedure .
Study 2 Study 2 was a Phase 3 , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel - groups study designed to compare the efficacy and safety of intranasally administered KOVANAZE to placebo , for providing dental anesthesia sufficient to allow completion of the standard dental procedure on a single maxillary tooth ( # 4 - 13 ) in adults .
A total of 150 adult patients were enrolled at three study centers and received either KOVANAZE ( n = 100 ) or placebo ( n = 50 ) as a dose of two or three 0 . 2 mL intranasal sprays .
All except two randomized patients ( one each in the KOVANAZE and placebo groups ) completed the study dental procedure .
Fifty - five percent ( 55 % ) of randomized patients were female and 63 % were White , with a mean age of 41 years ( range 18 to 78 years ) .
Eighty - eight percent ( 95 % CI : 80 % , 94 % ) of KOVANAZE patients were able to complete the dental procedure without the need for rescue medication compared to 28 % ( 95 % CI : 16 % , 43 % ) of patients who received placebo .
KOVANAZE had a lower success rate for dental procedures on the 2 nd pre - molar ( teeth # 4 and # 13 ) compared with more anterior teeth ( # 5 through # 12 ) : 64 % for the 2 nd pre - molars vs 96 % for more anterior teeth .
14 . 2 Study in Children Study 3 Study 3 was a Phase 3 , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel - groups study designed to compare the efficacy and safety of intranasally administered KOVANAZE to placebo for providing dental anesthesia sufficient to allow completion of the standard dental procedure on a single maxillary tooth ( permanent teeth 4 - 13 or primary teeth A - J ) for pediatric patients aged 3 through 17 .
A total of 90 patients , 3 through 17 years of age inclusive , were enrolled at two study centers .
Patients received one or two intranasal sprays of either KOVANAZE ( n = 60 ) or placebo ( n = 30 ) based on body weight : one 0 . 1 mL spray for patients weighing 10 kg to less than 20 kg ; two 0 . 1 mL sprays for 20 kg to less than 40 kg ; or two 0 . 2 mL sprays for patients weighing 40 kg or more .
All except one randomized patient in the KOVANAZE group completed the study dental procedure .
Fifty - one percent ( 51 % ) of randomized patients were male and 89 % were White , with a mean age of 8 years ( range 3 to 17 years ) .
Even though a greater percentage of patients were able to complete the dental procedure without the need for rescue anesthesia for KOVANAZE : 77 % for KOVANAZE ( 95 % CI : 64 % , 87 % ) compared to 53 % for placebo ( 95 % CI : 34 % , 72 % ) an analysis by weight indicated that efficacy was only established for patients weighing 40 kg or more [ see Table 3 ] .
Table 3 : Success Rates by Weight Group in the Pediatric Dental Patients ( Study 3 ) Successful Anesthetic Response by Weight N ( % ) KOVANAZE ( N = 60 ) Placebo ( N = 30 ) 40 kg or more 18 / 20 ( 90 % ) 4 / 10 ( 40 % ) 20 to less than 40 kg 14 / 24 ( 58 % ) 5 / 12 ( 42 % ) 10 to less than 20 kg 14 / 16 ( 88 % ) 7 / 8 ( 88 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING KOVANAZE Nasal Spray is supplied as pre - filled , single - dose sprayers containing a clear aqueous solution of 30 mg / mL of tetracaine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 26 . 4 mg / mL tetracaine ) and 0 . 5 mg / mL of oxymetazoline hydrochloride ( equivalent to 0 . 44 mg / mL oxymetazoline ) .
Each sprayer delivers 0 . 2 mL .
The product is available as : • NDC 69803 - 100 - 10 : Box of 30 sprayers Store between 2 ° and 8 ° C ( 36 ° and 46 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 0 ° and 15 ° C ( 32 ° and 59 ° F ) [ see USP controlled cold temperature ] .
Discard any unused solution .
DO NOT use if drug is left out at room temperature for more than 5 days .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients of the likelihood of expected side effects ( including runny nose , nasal congestion , mild nose bleeds , dizziness , and / or a sensation of difficulty in swallowing ) that should resolve within the same day .
Instruct patients to contact their dentist or health care professional if these symptoms persist [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• Advise patients to inform the dental practitioner if they are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , nonselective beta adrenergic antagonists , or tricyclic antidepressants [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to avoid using oxymetazoline - containing products ( such as Afrin ® and other α - adrenergic agonists ) within 24 hours prior to their scheduled dental procedure .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and to seek immediate medical attention should they occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
St . Renatus , LLC Manufactured for : St . Renatus , LLC Fort Collins , CO 80526 KOVANAZE is a trademark of St . Renatus , LLC .
Principal Display Panel - Box Label NDC 69803 - 100 - 10 KOVANAZE ( tetracaine HCl and oxymetazoline HCl ) NASAL SPRAY 0 . 2 mL per sprayer Containing 6 mg tetracaine HCl and 0 . 1 mg oxymetazoline HCl ( equivalent to 5 . 27 mg tetracaine and 0 . 088 mg oxymetazoline ) Contents : 30 sprayers Rx only NOT FOR INJECTION Store refrigerated at 2 to 8 ° C ( 36 to 46 ° F ) Manufactured for St . Renatus , LLC Fort Collins , CO 80526 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
