Active Ingredients Allantoin 1 % Benzocaine 20 % Camphor 3 % White petrolatum 64 . 9 % Purposes Skin protectant Fever blister / cold sore treatment Fever blister / cold sore treatment Skin protectant Uses • 1 .
temporarily relieves pain associated with fever blisters and cold sores • 2 .
relieves dryness and softens fever blisters and cold sores Warnings METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • 1 .
pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • 2 .
headache • 3 .
rapid heart rate • 4 .
shortness of breath • 5 .
dizziness or lightheadedness • 6 .
fatigue or lack of energy For external use only Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • 1 .
on deep or puncture wounds • 2 .
on animal bites • 3 .
on serious burns • 4 .
for teething • 5 .
in children under age 2 When using this product • 1 .
avoid contact with the eyes • 2 .
do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • 1 .
condition worsens • 2 .
symptoms persist for more than 7 days • 3 .
symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • 1 .
to open tube , cut tip of the tube on score mark with scissors • 2 .
adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • 3 .
children under 12 years of age : adult supervision should be given in the use of this product • 4 .
children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf extract , benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , glyceryl monostearate , isocetyl stearate , menthol , methylparaben , mineral oil , propylparaben , sodium lauryl sulfate , vitamin E , white wax Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 888 - 797 - 5638 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 9 g Tube Blister Pack Label ointment WITH Vitamin E & Aloe See new warnings information Anbesol ® Fever Blister / Cold Sore Treatment Cold Sore THERAPY MAXIMUM STRENGTH DOCTOR RECOMMENDED Instant Pain Relief • 1 .
Cold Sores and Fever Blisters • 2 .
Moisturizes While It Treats and Protects NET WT 0 . 33 OZ ( 9 g ) Safety Sealed Tube : Do Not Use if tube tip is cut prior to opening .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
