Indications : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
Inactive Ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose .
Lactose Monohydrate .
Pregelatinized Starch and Magnesium Stearate Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) : paralytic ileus ; intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
Glycopyrrolate tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate .
Actions : Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine by lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sino - atrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands , and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus .
it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g ..
bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which arenon - polar tertiaryamines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature .
heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur with the use of Glycopyrrolate .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Glycopyrrolate may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
In this event .
the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuro - muscular blockade leading tomuscular weakness and possible paralysis .
Pregnancy The safety of this drug during pregnancy has not been established .
The use of any drug during pregnancy requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child .
Reproduction studies in rats revealed no teratogenic effects from glycopyrrolate ; however , the potent anticholinergic action of this agent resulted in diminished rates of conception and of survival at weaning , in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to dimished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
Information on possible adverse effects in the pregnant female is limited to uncontrolled data derived from marketing experience .
Such experience has revealed no reports of teratogenic or other fetus - damaging potential .
No controlled studies to establish the safely of the drug in pregnancy have been performed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
As a general rule .
nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drygs are excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use Since there is no adequate experience in pediatric patients who have received this drug , safety and efficacy in pediatric patients has not been established .
PRECAUTIONS Use Glycopyrrolate with caution in the elderly and in all patients with : • Autonomic neuropathy .
• Hepatic or renal disease .
• Ulcerative colitis - large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and for this reason may precipitate or aggravate the " toxic megacolon " a serious complication of the disease .
• Hyperthyroidism .
coronary heart disease .
congestive heart failure .
cardiac tachyarrhythmias .
tachycardia .
hypertension and prostatic hypertrophy .
• Hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis , since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate this condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics produce certain effects .
most of which are extensions of their fundamental pharmacological actions .
Adverse reactions to anticholinergics in general may include xerostomia ; decreased sweating ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; dilation of the pupil ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headaches ; nervousness ; mental confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylaxis ; urticaria and other dermal manifestations .
Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quarternary ammonium compound : hence .
its passage across lipid membranes such as the blood - brain barrier .
is limited to contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide .
For this reason the occurrence of CNS related side effects is lower , in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily .
OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdosage of glycopyrrolate are peripheral in nature rather than central .
1 .
To guard against further absorption of the drug .
- use gastric lavage .
cathartics .
and / or enemas .
2 .
To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects ( residual hydriasis , dry mouth , etc . ) - utilize a quartenary ammonium anticholinesterase .
such as neostigmine methylsulfate .
3 .
To combat hypotension - use pressor amines ( norepinephrine , metaraminol ) i . v . ; and supportive car .
4 .
To combat respiratory depression - administer oxygen : utilize a respuarory stimulant such as Dopram ( R ) i . v . , artificial respiration .
Dosage and Administration The dosage of glycopyrrolate should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse reactions .
The presently recommended maximum daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets USP , 1 mg .
The recommended initial dosage of Glycopyrrolate for adults is one tablet three times daily ( in the morning , early afternoon , and at bedtime ) .
Some patients may require two tablets at bedtime to assure overnight control of symptoms .
For maintenance , a dosage of one tablet twice a day is frequently adequate .
Glycopyrrolare tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years .
Drug Interactions There are no known drug interactions .
Glycopyrrolate Tablets UsP , 1 mg in bottles of 100 ( NDC 60763 - 0475 - 2 ) Store at controlled room temperature , 20 C to 25 C ( 68 F to 77 F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 C - 30 C ( 59 F - 86 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
Dispense In tight container .
Rx only Manufactured by : Stason Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Irvine , CA 92618 Product Label NDC 60763 - 475 100 Tablets Glycopyrrolate Tablets , USP Rx only Storage : Store at controlled room temperature , 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) : excursions permitted to 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
Pharmacist : Dispense in tight container .
Usual Dosage : One or two tablets three times a day .
See accompanying information .
Manufactured by Stason Pharmaceuticals Irvine , CA 92618 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg container text [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
