Active ingredient Zinc Oxide ........ 13 . 0 % Purpose Skin Protectant Uses • helps treat and prevent diaper rash • protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • change wet and soiled diapers promptly • cleanse the diaper area • allow to dry • apply cream liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change , especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Other Information • store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients water , petrolatum , mineral oil , PEG - 30 dipolyhydroxystearate , microcrystalline wax , dimethicone , beeswax , sorbitan sesquioleate , magnesium sulfate , phenoxyethanol , tocopheryl acetate ( Vitamin E ) , fragrance , methylparaben , propylparaben , aloe barbadensis leaf juice Package / Label Principal Display Panel Cottontails baby care quick relief diaper rash cream Take care of your little one , from the top of their head to their tiny little toes , with Cottontails ® .
With zinc oxide Helps to heal , soothe & prevent diaper rash Compare to Desitin ® Rapid Relief Cream Ingredients NET WT .
4 OZ .
( 113 g ) Designed to be gentle on your little one , our skin care products will keep their skin smooth , soft and ready for the next exciting day .
Quick Relief Creamy Diaper Rash Cream provides relief from the very first use by immediately forming a protective layer on your baby ' s delicate skin to soothe and relieve discomfort caused by diaper rash .
This creamy , dermatologist - tested and hypoallergenic formula goes on smoothly and wipes off easily , to protect and treat diaper rash providing relief your baby can feel .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson ® Consumer Products Company , owner of the registered trademark Desitin ® DISTRIBUTED BY FOODHOLD U . S . A . , LLC LANDOVER , MD 20785 1 - 877 - 846 - 9949 © 2013 Ahold Licensing , Sarl MADE IN INSRAEL Quality guaranteed or your money back .
0D827 D4 C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
