DESCRIPTION GaviLyte - C with flavor pack is a white , colon lavage preparation provided as water - soluble components for solution .
In solution this preparation with lemon flavor pack added delivers the following , in grams per liter .
Polyethylene glycol 3350 240 . 00 Sodium chloride 5 . 84 Potassium chloride 6 . 72 Sodium bicarbonate 2 . 98 Sodium sulfate 22 . 72 Flavor ingredients 0 . 500 When dissolved in sufficient water to make 4 liters , the final solution contains 125 mEq / L sodium , 10 mEq / L potassium , 20 mEq / L bicarbonate , 80 mEq / L sulfate , 35 mEq / L chloride and 18 mEq / L polyethylene glycol 3350 .
The reconstituted solution is an isosmotic solution , for oral administration , having mild salty taste .
This preparation can be used without the lemon flavor pack and is administered orally or via nasogastric tube .
Each lemon flavor pack ( 2 g ) contains natural lemon flavor powder , saccharin sodium , maltodextrin .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY GaviLyte - C with flavor pack cleanses the bowel by induction of diarrhea .
The osmotic activity of polyethylene glycol 3350 , in combination with the electrolyte concentration , results in virtually no net absorption or excretion of ions or water .
Accordingly , large volumes may be administered without significant changes in fluid and electrolyte balance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE GaviLyte - C with flavor pack is indicated for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy or barium enema X - ray examination .
CONTRAINDICATIONS GaviLyte - C with flavor pack is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to any of the components .
GaviLyte - C with flavor pack is contraindicated in patients with ileus , gastrointestinal obstruction , gastric retention , bowel perforation , toxic colitis or toxic megacolon .
WARNINGS Flavor pack is for use only in combination with the contents of the accompanying 4 liter container .
No other additional ingredients ( e . g . , flavorings ) should be added to the solution .
GaviLyte - C with flavor pack should be used with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients with impaired gag reflex , unconscious or semiconscious patients and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of GaviLyte - C with flavor pack , especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube .
If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of GaviLyte - C with flavor pack .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS GaviLyte - C with flavor pack produces a watery stool which cleanses the bowel prior to examination .
For best results , no solid food should be ingested during the 3 to 4 hour period prior to the initiation of GaviLyte - C with flavor pack administration .
In no case should solid foods be eaten within 2 hours of drinking GaviLyte - C with flavor pack .
The rate of administration is 240 mL ( 8 fl .
oz . )
every 10 minutes .
Rapid drinking of each portion is preferred rather than drinking small amounts continuously .
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of GaviLyte - C with flavor pack administration .
Administration of GaviLyte - C with flavor pack should be continued until the watery stool is clear and free of solid matter .
This normally requires the consumption of approximately 3 to 4 liters ( 3 to 4 quarts ) , although more or less may be required in some patients .
The unused portion should be discarded .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medication administered within one hour of start of administration of GaviLyte - C with flavor pack may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or potential to adversely affect male or female fertility have not been performed .
PREGNANCY Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with GaviLyte - C with flavor pack , and it is not known whether GaviLyte - C with flavor pack can affect reproductive capacity or harm the fetus when administered to a pregnant patient .
GaviLyte - C with flavor pack should be given to a pregnant patient only if clearly needed .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
GERIATRIC USE Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG - ELS products in patients over 60 years of age .
These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory - Weiss Tear , esophageal perforation , asystole , sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema , and " butterfly - like " infiltrate on chest x - ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea , abdominal fullness and bloating are the most frequent adverse reactions , occurring in up to 50 % of patients .
Abdominal cramps , vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently .
These adverse reactions are transient .
Isolated cases of urticaria , rhinorrhea , dermatitis , and rarely anaphylaxis , angioedema , tongue edema , and face edema have been reported which may represent allergic reactions .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GaviLyte - C with flavor pack can be administered orally or by nasogastric tube .
Patients should fast at least 3 hours prior to administration .
A one hour waiting period after the appearance of clear liquid stool should be allowed prior to examination to complete bowel evacuation .
No foods except clear liquids should be permitted prior to examination after GaviLyte - C with flavor pack administration .
ORAL : The recommended adult oral dose is 240 mL ( 8 fl .
oz . )
every 10 minutes ( see INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ) .
Lavage is complete when fecal discharge is clear .
Lavage is usually complete after the ingestion of 3 to 4 liters .
NASOGASTRIC TUBE : GaviLyte - C with flavor pack is administered at a rate of 20 to 30 mL per minute ( 1 . 2 to 1 . 8 L / hour ) .
PREPARATION OF GaviLyte - C with flavor pack SOLUTION : This preparation can be used with or without the lemon flavor pack .
1 .
To add flavor , tear open lemon flavor pack at the indicated marking and pour contents into the bottle BEFORE reconstitution .
2 .
SHAKE WELL to incorporate flavoring into the powder .
3 .
Add tap water to FILL line .
Replace cap tightly and mix or shake well until all ingredients have dissolved .
( No other additional ingredients , e . g . flavorings , should be added to the solution . )
Note : If not using flavor pack , omit steps one and two , above .
HOW SUPPLIED GaviLyte - C with flavor pack is supplied in 4 liter bottles with an attached lemon flavor pack .
Each 4 liter bottle contains polyethylene glycol - 3350 240 g , sodium chloride 5 . 84 g , potassium chloride 2 . 98 g , sodium bicarbonate 6 . 72 g , sodium sulfate ( anhydrous ) 22 . 72 g .
This preparation is supplied in powdered form , for oral administration as a solution .
GaviLyte - C with flavor pack 4 liter : NDC 43386 - 060 - 19 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) : excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
KEEP RECONSTITUTED SOLUTION REFRIGERATED .
USE WITHIN 48 HOURS .
DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , MD 21202 LA0601900203 Rev . 09 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Gavilyte - C with Flavor Pack ( PEG - 3350 ( 240 g ) and electrolytes for oral solution , USP ) with flavor pack [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lemon Flavor Pack [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
