Active ingredient ( in each TABLESPOON ) Psyllium Hydrophilic Mucilloid 3 . 4 g Purpose Fiber therapy for regularity Use for relief of occasional constipation ( regularity ) Warnings Choking : Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention .
Allergy alert : This product may cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ a sudden change in bowel habits persisting for 2 weeks .
• ▪ abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting Stop use and ask a doctor • ▪ constipation lasts more than 7 days • ▪ rectal bleeding occurs These may be sings of a serious condition Keep Out of Reach of Children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions : Put one dose into an empty glass .
Mix this product ( child or adult dose ) with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of water or other fluid .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
See choking warning .
Stir briskly and drink promptly .
If mixture thickness , add more liquid and stir .
Adults 12 years & older : 1 rounded TABLESPOON in 8 oz of liquid at the first sign of irregularity .
Can be taken up to 3 times daily .
Generally produces effect in 12 - 72 hours .
Children under 12 yrs : Consult a doctor before use Bulk - forming fibers like psyllium husk may affect how well other medicines work .
If you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth , take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine .
As your body adjusts to increase fiber intake , you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating .
New Users : Start with 1 serving per day , gradually increase to desired daily intake .
You may initially experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating as your body adjusts to increased fiber intake .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Other information • ▪ each tablespoon contains : potassium 35 mg ; sodium 5 mg • ▪ Store at room temperature tightly closed to protect from humidity • ▪ Do not use if printed seal under cap is torn or missing • ▪ Contains a 100 % natural , therapeutic fiber ‡ Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol that include 7 grams of soluble fiber per day from fiber such as NuSyllium may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering cholesterol .
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure or prevent any disease .
TAMPER - EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS TORN OR MISSING Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Inactive ingredients Natural citric acid , natural flavors , Organic Brown Cane Sugar , Organic Vegetable Glycerin .
Principal Display Panel NDC 68163 - 571 - 72 NuSyllium Natural Orange Flavor Organic Natural Fiber 100 % Organic Certified Psyllium Perfect Grind For Easy Mixing ™ USDA ORGANIC NO ARTIFICIAL INGREDIENTS 100 % Natural Fiber Supplement Fiber Laxative for Regularity Made with 100 % Organic Brown Cane Sugar Folks are taking about the Benefits of NuSyllium Organic Natural Fiber !
• • You can use NuSyllium to feel less hungry between meals .
• • Maintain healthy blood sugar levels by using NuSyllium Ultra as part of your sugar free diet * .
Talk to your doctor before use if you are taking medication to control your blood sugar levels .
• • Organic NuSyllium is a great choice for promoting and maintain digestive health .
You can use NuSyllium Ultra for occasional constipation and to help promote and maintain regularity .
• • Did you know that one dose of NuSyllium Ultra contains 2 gm .
of soluble fiber ?
You can use it for lowering cholesterol and promoting heart health * .
No Artificial Flavors , Peanut - free No Artificial Colors , Tree Nut - free GMO - free , Preservative - free Gluten - free , Zero Trans Fat Diary - free NET WT 30 . 5 OZ ( 864 g ) 72 DOSES Fill controlled by weight , not volume Made in the U . S . A . with domestic and foreign components .
Distributed by : Lifelab Health LLC 6574 N . State Road # 7 361 Coconut Creek , FL 33073 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
