HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use ZINGO safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for ZINGO .
ZINGO ( lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) powder intradermal injection system Initial U . S . Approval : 1948 ------------------ RECENT MAJOR CHANGES ------------------- Warnings and Precautions , Methemoglobinemia ( 5 . 1 ) 11 / 2018 ------------------ INDICATIONS AND USAGE ------------------- • ZINGO is an amide local anesthetic indicated for use on intact skin to provide local analgesia prior to venipuncture or peripheral intravenous cannulation in children 3 – 18 years of age .
( 1 ) • ZINGO is indicated for use on intact skin to provide topical local analgesia prior to venipuncture in adults .
( 1 ) Important Limitations : For use on intact skin only ( 1 , 2 ) For external use only ( 5 ) --------------- DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION --------------- • Apply one ZINGO ( 0 . 5 mg lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) to the site planned for venipuncture or intravenous cannulation , one to three minutes prior to needle insertion .
( 2 . 1 ) • Perform the procedure within 10 minutes after ZINGO administration .
( 2 ) • Use ZINGO only on intact skin .
( 2 ) ------------- DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ------------- ZINGO is a sterile , single - use , powder intradermal injection system containing 0 . 5 mg lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate .
( 3 ) ZINGO utilizes a helium - powered delivery system .
( 11 ) --------------------- CONTRAINDICATIONS --------------------- ZINGO is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
( 4 ) --------------- WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS --------------- • Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use on intact skin only ( 2 . 1 , 5 ) • Avoid contact with the eye ( 2 . 1 , 5 ) • Do not use if device is dropped or the pouch is damaged or torn ( 2 . 1 ) • Patients with bleeding tendencies or platelet disorders could have a higher risk of superficial dermal bleeding ( 5 ) --------------------- ADVERSE REACTIONS --------------------- The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % ) are skin reactions at the site of administration : erythema , petechiae , edema , and pruritus ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact 7 T Pharma , LLC , at 1 - 800 - 941 - 2848 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : November 2018 FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Instructions for Use 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Methemoglobinemia 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 2 Labor and Delivery 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 10 OVERDOSAGE 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZINGO is indicated for use on intact skin to provide topical local analgesia prior to venipuncture or peripheral intravenous cannulation , in children 3 – 18 years of age .
ZINGO is indicated for use on intact skin to provide topical local analgesia prior to venipuncture in adults .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply one ZINGO ( 0 . 5 mg lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) to the site planned for venipuncture or intravenous cannulation , one to three minutes prior to needle insertion .
Perform the procedure within 10 minutes after ZINGO administration .
Use ZINGO only on intact skin .
Application of one additional ZINGO at a new location is acceptable after a failed attempt at venous access .
Multiple administrations of ZINGO at the same location are not recommended .
When ZINGO is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all sources should be considered , as local anesthetics are thought to have at least additive toxicities .
2 . 1 Instructions for Use Prepare the Treatment Site and Device : Examine the treatment site to ensure that the skin is intact .
Clean the site , according to standard practice .
Visually inspect the pouch .
Do not use if the pouch has been torn , or damaged or if the device has been dropped .
Tear open the pouch using the notch provided ( Figure 1 a ) .
Remove ZINGO from the pouch , being careful not to touch the purple outlet ( open end ) to avoid contamination ( Figure 1 b ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Position ZINGO : Grip ZINGO and place on the application site , with one hand , as illustrated in Figure 2 , or with both hands , as shown in Figure 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ensure that the patient ’ s treatment site is supported to prevent movement .
Seal the purple ZINGO outlet against the patient ’ s skin .
Hold the device perpendicular to the skin , making sure that your thumb can reach the green start button .
Avoid gaps between the skin and the ZINGO outlet , like the one illustrated in Figure 4 , as gaps will impede drug delivery .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Release the Safety Interlock : Apply adequate downward pressure to release the safety interlock , while maintaining the seal between ZINGO and the skin .
ZINGO is ready for administration when the green start button has moved into the upward position , as illustrated in Figure 5 a .
ZINGO cannot be actuated without releasing the internal safety interlock , as illustrated in Figure 5 b .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Administer ZINGO : While maintaining downward pressure , administer the dose by pressing the green start button , as illustrated in Figure 6 .
Do not move ZINGO during administration .
Actuation is accompanied by a “ popping ” sound , indicating that the dose has been discharged .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove ZINGO : Remove ZINGO from the application site and dispose .
Begin Procedure : Start the venipuncture or intravenous cannulation procedure 1 – 3 minutes after ZINGO administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ZINGO ( lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) powder intradermal injection system contains 0 . 5 mg of sterile lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ZINGO is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not use around the eyes .
Do not use ZINGO on body orifices , mucous membranes , or on areas with a compromised skin barrier .
Only use ZINGO on skin locations where an adequate seal can be maintained .
Patients with severe hepatic disease or pseudocholinesterase deficiency , because of their inability to metabolize local anesthetics normally , are at a greater risk of developing toxic plasma concentrations of lidocaine .
Patients with bleeding tendencies or platelet disorders could have a higher risk of superficial dermal bleeding .
5 . 1 Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue ZINGO and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of ZINGO has been evaluated in 10 clinical trials , five in adults and five in pediatric patients .
The five adult clinical trials consisted of a randomized , double - blind , parallel - arm , sham - placebo controlled Phase 3 trial that enrolled 693 patients , two randomized , double - blind , crossover design , sham - placebo controlled Phase 1 trials that enrolled 455 patients , and two open - label studies that enrolled 44 patients .
A total of 742 adults received an active treatment with an active treatment that delivered a 0 . 5 mg dose of lidocaine , while 775 received placebo .
The five pediatric clinical trials consisted of five randomized , double - blind , parallel - arm , sham - placebo controlled trials in which 1761 patients , ages 3 to 18 , received either ZINGO or a sham placebo device .
A total of 906 pediatric patients received active treatment , while 855 received placebo .
Application Site Reaction The application site was specifically assessed for four categories of skin site reaction ( erythema , edema , pruritus , and petechiae ) .
In adults , erythema occurred in 67 . 3 % of ZINGO - treated patients , and in 25 . 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Petechiae occurred in 46 . 4 % of ZINGO - treated patients , and in 7 . 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Edema occurred in 4 . 3 % of ZINGO - treated patients , and in 0 . 8 % of placebo - treated patients .
Pruritus occurred in 9 . 4 % of ZINGO - treated patients and in 6 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients .
In pediatric patients , erythema occurred in 53 % of ZINGO - treated patients , and in 27 % of placebo - treated patients .
Petechiae occurred in 44 % of ZINGO - treated patients , and in 5 % of placebo - treated patients .
Edema occurred in 8 % of ZINGO - treated patients , and in 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
Pruritus occurred in 1 % of patients in both treatment groups .
Adverse Reactions Amongst the 742 adult patients receiving active treatment and 775 adult patients receiving sham placebo treatment in the 5 adult studies , the percentage of adult patients with any adverse reactions was 3 . 9 % in the active - treated patients and 4 . 9 % in the sham placebo treated patients .
Most adverse reactions were application - site related ( i . e . , hypoaesthesia ( 0 % active , 0 . 5 % sham placebo ) , burning ( 0 . 54 % active , 0 . 4 % sham placebo ) , and venipuncture site hemorrhage ( 0 . 4 % active , 1 . 7 % sham placebo ) ) .
The most common systemic adverse reaction was dizziness , which occurred in 0 . 9 % of active - treated adult patients and in 0 . 7 % of sham placebo treated adult patients .
No other systemic adverse events occurred in more than two patients in either treatment group .
Amongst the 906 pediatric patients receiving active treatment and 855 pediatric patients receiving sham placebo treatment , the percentage of pediatric patients with any adverse reactions was approximately 9 % in each treatment group .
Most adverse reactions were application - site related ( i . e . , bruising , burning , pain , contusion , hemorrhage ) , occurring in 4 % of pediatric patients in each treatment group .
The most common systemic adverse reactions were nausea ( 2 % ) and vomiting ( 1 % ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric oxide , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate , Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy ZINGO was not formally evaluated for effects on reproduction .
Significant systemic exposure to lidocaine is not expected under recommended conditions of use of ZINGO as lidocaine levels were below the limit of detection in human studies .
Lidocaine has been previously tested for reproductive toxicity in animal studies , however .
The following ratios are based on the assumption that the applied dose is completely absorbed through the skin .
Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Lidocaine was not teratogenic in rats given subcutaneous doses up to 60 mg / kg [ 360 mg / m 2 or 1200 - fold the single dermal administration ( SDA ) of 0 . 5 mg lidocaine in a 60 kg individual ( 0 . 3 mg / m 2 ) ] or in rabbits up to 15 mg / kg ( 180 mg / m 2 or 600 - fold the SDA ) .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , ZINGO should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Lidocaine , containing 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine , at a dose of 6 mg / kg ( 36 mg / m 2 or 120 - fold the SDA ) injected into the masseter muscle of the jaw or into the gum of the lower jaw of Long - Evans hooded pregnant rats on gestation day 11 led to developmental delays in neonatal behavior among offspring .
Developmental delays were observed for negative geotaxis , static righting reflex , visual discrimination response , sensitivity and response to thermal and electrical shock stimuli , and water maze acquisition .
The developmental delays of the neonatal animals were transient with responses becoming comparable to untreated animals later in life .
The clinical relevance of the animal data is uncertain .
No adequate and well – controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , ZINGO should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies risk to the fetus .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Lidocaine is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
In humans , the use of lidocaine for labor conduction analgesia has not been associated with an increased incidence of adverse fetal effects either during delivery or during the neonatal period .
Should ZINGO be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , total doses contributed by all formulations must be considered .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Lidocaine is excreted into human milk ; therefore , caution should be exercised when ZINGO is administered to a nursing mother .
Because no plasma concentrations of lidocaine are detected after topical administration of ZINGO in recommended doses , the small amount of lidocaine that would be ingested orally by a suckling infant is unlikely to cause adverse effects .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 693 patients evaluated in a Phase 3 randomized , double blind , sham - placebo - controlled trial in adults , 17 % were of 65 and over .
The safety and effectiveness of ZINGO in geriatric patients were similar to that of ZINGO in adults under 65 years of age .
10 OVERDOSAGE In adults following a single administration of ZINGO the plasma levels of lidocaine were below the limit of detection ( 5 ng / mL ) .
Signs of central nervous system ( CNS ) toxicity may start at plasma concentrations of lidocaine as low as 1000 ng / mL , and the risk of seizures generally increases with increasing plasma levels .
Very high levels of lidocaine can cause respiratory arrest , coma , decreases in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure , ventricular arrhythmias , and cardiac arrest .
The toxicity of coadministered local anesthetics is thought to be at least additive .
In the absence of massive topical overdose or oral ingestion , other etiologies for the clinical effects or overdosage from other sources of lidocaine or other local anesthetics should be considered .
The management of overdosage includes close monitoring , supportive care , and symptomatic treatment .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage of lidocaine .
11 DESCRIPTION ZINGO ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) powder intradermal injection system contains 0 . 5 mg of sterile lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate .
The chemical name is 2 - diethylamino - 2 ' , 6 ' - acetoxylidide , monohydrochloride , monohydrate .
The molecular formula is C 14 H 22 N 2 O · HCl · H 2 O with a molecular weight of 288 . 8 Da .
Lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate , a local anesthetic of the amide class , has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate is freely soluble in water , soluble in alcohol and chloroform , insoluble in ether , and melts at around 74 – 79 ° C . ZINGO is a ready - to - use , sterile , single - use , disposable , needle - free delivery system .
ZINGO consists of the following components : a drug reservoir cassette filled with 0 . 5 mg lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate as a powder with a nominal particle size of 40 µm , a pressurized helium gas cylinder , and a safety interlock .
The safety interlock prevents inadvertent actuation of the device .
Once ZINGO is pressed against the skin , the interlock is released , allowing the button to be depressed to actuate the device .
A sound similar to that of a popping balloon is emitted at the time ZINGO is actuated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ZINGO delivers lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate into the dermis .
Lidocaine is an amide - type local anesthetic agent that blocks sodium ion channels required for the initiation and conduction of neuronal impulses , resulting in local anesthesia .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics ZINGO provides local dermal analgesia within 1 – 3 minutes of application .
Analgesia diminishes within 10 minutes of treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption A single dose of ZINGO in adults did not produce detectable plasma concentrations of lidocaine ( limit of quantitation 5 ng / mL ) in any subject tested ( n = 38 ) .
Application of ZINGO to broken or inflamed skin , or multiple ZINGO applications , could result in systemic plasma levels of lidocaine that could produce systemic toxicity .
Distribution When lidocaine is administered intravenously to healthy volunteers , the steady - state volume of distribution is approximately 0 . 8 to 1 . 3 L / kg .
At much higher plasma concentrations ( 1 to 4 mcg / mL of free base ) than those found following application of ZINGO , the plasma protein binding of lidocaine is concentration dependent .
Lidocaine crosses the placental and blood brain barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
CNS toxicity may typically be observed around 5000 ng / mL of lidocaine ; however a small number of patients reportedly may show signs of toxicity at approximately 1000 ng / mL .
Metabolism It is not known if lidocaine is metabolized in the skin .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver to a number of metabolites including monoethylglycinexylidide ( MEGX ) and glycinexylidide ( GX ) , both of which have pharmacologic activity similar to , but less potent than that of lidocaine .
The major metabolic pathway of lidocaine , sequential N - deethylation to monoethylglycinexylidide ( MEGX ) and glycinexylidide ( GX ) , is primarily mediated by CYP1A2 with a minor role of CYP3A4 .
The metabolite , 2 , 6 - xylidine , has unknown pharmacologic activity .
Following intravenous administration of lidocaine , MEGX and GX concentrations in serum range from 11 % to 36 % and from 5 % to 11 % of lidocaine concentrations , respectively .
Serum concentrations of MEGX are about one - third the serum lidocaine concentrations .
Elimination The half - life of lidocaine elimination from the plasma following intravenous administration is approximately 1 . 8 hours .
Lidocaine and its metabolites are excreted by the kidneys .
More than 98 % of an absorbed dose of lidocaine can be recovered in the urine as metabolites or parent drug .
Less than 10 % of lidocaine is excreted unchanged in adults , and approximately 20 % is excreted unchanged in neonates .
The systemic clearance is approximately 8 – 10 mL / min / kg .
During intravenous studies , the elimination half - life of lidocaine was statistically significantly longer in elderly patients ( 2 . 5 hours ) than in younger patients ( 1 . 5 hours ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of lidocaine .
Mutagenesis No mutagenic potential of lidocaine was demonstrated in the in vitro Ames Bacterial Reverse Mutation Assay , the in vitro chromosome aberration assay using Chinese hamster ovary cells , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility ZINGO was not formally evaluated for effects on fertility .
Significant systemic exposure to lidocaine is not expected under recommended conditions of use of ZINGO , as lidocaine levels were below the limit of detection in human studies .
Lidocaine has been previously tested in animal studies for effects on fertility , however .
The following ratios are based on the assumption that the applied dose is completely absorbed through the skin .
Lidocaine did not affect fertility in female rats when given via continuous subcutaneous infusion via osmotic minipumps up to doses of 250 mg / kg / day [ 1500 mg / m 2 or 5000 - fold higher than the SDA of 0 . 5 mg lidocaine in a 60 kg individual ( 0 . 3 mg / m 2 ) ] .
Although lidocaine treatment of male rats increased the copulatory interval and led to a dose - related decreased homogenization resistant sperm head count , daily sperm production , and spermatogenic efficiency , the treatment did not affect overall fertility in male rats when given subcutaneous doses up to 60 mg / kg ( 360 mg / m 2 or 1200 - fold the SDA ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy in Adults The efficacy of ZINGO in adults was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , parallel - arm , sham - placebo controlled trial in which adult patients who required a venipuncture or peripheral venous cannulation received either ZINGO or a sham placebo device .
Patients were treated with ZINGO or a placebo device at the antecubital fossa or back of the hand , between one and three minutes prior to venipuncture or peripheral venous cannulation .
Measurements of pain were made immediately following the procedure .
Efficacy was measured using a continuous 100 mm visual analogue scale ranging from 0 ( “ no pain ” ) to 100 ( “ worst possible pain ” ) .
Many of the patients had chronic medical problems such as depression , hypertension , hypothyroidism , and hyperlipidemia and over one fourth of the population may have been at higher than average risk of dermal bleeding due to use of concomitant medications such as NSAIDs , aspirin , and corticosteroids .
Treatment with active drug resulted in less pain compared with placebo ( see Table 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] However , efficacy was primarily seen in patients undergoing venipuncture at the antecubital fossa , while patients undergoing cannulation at the back of the hand did not demonstrate a difference between active and sham administrations .
Efficacy in Pediatric Patients The efficacy of ZINGO in patients 3 – 18 years of age was evaluated in two randomized , double - blind , parallel - arm , sham - placebo controlled trials in which pediatric patients received either ZINGO or a sham placebo device .
The overall patient population consisted of healthy pediatric patients as well as those with acute and chronic medical conditions ( i . e . , diabetes , asthma , seizure disorder , juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and renal or hepatic transplantation ) ages 3 – 18 years .
All patients required peripheral venipuncture or intravenous cannulation as part of their clinical care .
Two efficacy trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) were conducted during which patients were treated with ZINGO or a placebo device at the back of hand or antecubital fossa , between one and three minutes prior to venipuncture or peripheral venous cannulation .
Measurements of pain were made immediately following the venous procedure .
Efficacy was measured using a modified version of the Wong - Baker FACES pain rating scale [ a categorical 6 - point scale containing 6 faces ranging from 0 ( “ no hurt ” ) to 5 ( “ hurts worst ” ) ] .
In both studies , treatment with active drug resulted in less pain , from venipuncture or peripheral IV cannulation , compared with placebo ( See Table 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC 70645 - 123 ZINGO ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) powder intradermal injection system contains 0 . 5 mg of sterile lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate .
ZINGO ® is a single - dose device packaged in an individual clear pouch .
Twelve pouched devices are placed in labeled cartons .
Cartons are stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Patients should be made aware that a sound similar to that of a popping balloon is emitted at the time ZINGO is actuated .
Patients should be informed that skin reactions including erythema , petechiae , pruritus and edema may occur .
Manufactured by : Powder Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Hong Kong , China 500113 Rev 02 ZINGO ® is a trademark of Powder Pharmaceuticals , Incorporated .
Distributed by : 7 T Pharma LLC Las Vegas , NV 89123 , USA REF : 70645 - 123 Under license by 7 T Pharma LLC OUTER PACKAGING and PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Device Label NDC 70645 - 123 - 26 ZINGO ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) powder intradermal injection system 0 . 5 mg contains 1 sterile unit Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label NDC 70645 - 123 - 12 ZINGO ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate ) powder intradermal injection system 0 . 5 mg contains 12 sterile units Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
