Active Ingredient ( per spray ) : Lidocaine approx .
10 mg Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if • You have liver problems .
Do not use if : • You or your partner are allergic to lidocaine or topical anesthetics .
• Your partner is or may become pregnant .
• Keep out of reach of Children .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if you or your partner develop a rash or irritation , such as burning or itching .
If symptoms persist , consult a doctor .
• Premature ejaculation may be due to a condition requiring medical supervision .
If this product , used as directed does not provide relief , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Warnings : For external use only .
When using this product • Do not spray on broken , irritated or sensitive skin .
• Avoid contact with the eyes .
Indications and Usage Helps in temporarily slowing the onset of ejaculation .
Male genital desensitizing spray with lidocaine Directions : Remove plastic cap .
Press the actuator repeatedly until product dispenses to prime spray pump .
Apply 3 or more sprays not to exceed 10 to the head and shaft of the penis 10 minutes before sexual intercourse or use as directed by a doctor .
Recommended initial dosage : 3 sprays .
Rub BonaDur into the skin of the penis until all of the product is absorbed .
Wash product off after intercourse .
Replace plastic cap after each use .
Other Information : Keep away from fire and flame .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive Ingredients : Ethyl Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Oil of Peppermint , Citric Acid , Thymol .
Questions ?
Phone 1 - 877 - 797 - 2522 within the United States for reporting serious adverse events associated with use of the product .
To re - order this product or for product information please visit : www . BonaDur . com OTC - Purpose Anesthetic - Helps temporarily prolong the time until ejaculation BonaDur ® For Men [ MULTIMEDIA ] Male genital desensitizing spray with lidocaine HELPS TEMPORARILY PROLONG THE TIME UNTIL EJACULATION RAPID ACTING LIDOCAINE BASED FORMULA Net Contents . 25 fl oz ( 7 . 4 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
