[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of sodium sulfacetamide 10 % and sulfur 5 % cleanser contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 50 mg of sulfur in a cleanser containing Aloe Vera leaf Extract , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Cetyl Alcohol , Citric Acid , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Purified Water , Sodium laureth sulfate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl alcohol , Triacetin , Xanthan Gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Sodium sulfacetamide is C 8 H 9 N 2 NaO 3 S · H2O with molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically , it is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % - SULFUR 5 % CLEANSER is indicated for use in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is contraindicated in persons with know or suspected hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Occasionally , a slight discoloration of fabric may occur when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION USE : Wash affected area once or twice daily , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less often .
See label booklet for Full Prescribing Information .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRAVAGINAL OR OPHTHALMIC USE .
( KEEP AWAY FROM EYES ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 63629 - 9259 - 1 : 170 g of Cleanser in a BOTTLE , PLASTIC Sodium Sulface / Sulfur 10 % / 5 % cleanser # 170 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
