Guaifenesin 200 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : carnauba wax , cellulose , dextrin , fenugreek seed extract , glycerin , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , marshmallow root extract , mullein leaf extract , povidone , silica , sodium croscarmellose , stearic acid .
Dosage : Adults and Children 12 years and over : 1 - 2 tabletss every 4 hours , not to exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours .
Children 6 to 11 years of age : 1 / 2 to 1 tablets every 4 hours not to exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours .
Children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor .
Purpose : Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of mucus and make coughs more productive .
Indications : Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of mucus and make coughs more productive .
Warnings : Do not use this product if you are pregnant , attempting to become pregnant , or breast - feeding .
Do not take this product for persistent or chronic cough such that occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema or where cough is accompaied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : Persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema have a cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) .
have diabetes are taking antibiotics or any other prescription drug .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists more than one week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persisient headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If you are taking any medications , consult a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdoese seek medical help or contact a Posion Control Center immediately .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : Persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema have a cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) .
have diabetes are taking antibiotics or any other prescription drug .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists more than one week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persisient headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
