Active ingredients ( in each extended - release tablet ) Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide USP 60 mg Guaifenesin USP 1200 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not crush , chew , or break tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals • adults and children 12 years and older : 1 tablet every 12 hours ; not more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • tamper evident : do not use if carton is open or if printed seal on blister is broken or missing • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch ( maize ) Questions ?
call 1 - 855 - 274 - 4122 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Maximum Strength Mucinex ® DM .
Distributed By AmerisourceBergen 1300 Morris Drive Chesterbrook , PA 19087 Questions or Concerns ?
www . mygnp . com PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1200 mg / 60 mg ( 14 Tablet Carton Label ) Compare to Maximum Strength Mucinex ® DM active ingredients * GOOD NEIGHBOR PHARMACY ® NDC 46122 - 420 - 74 12 Hour maximum strength Mucus .
DM guaifenesin and dextromethorphan HBr extended - release tablets 1200 mg / 60 mg Expectorant / Cough Suppressant • Controls Cough • Thins and Loosens Mucus 14 Extended - Release Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
