Uses • temporarily relieves sore gums due to teething in infants and children 4 months of age and older Warnings • Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics • Do not use more than directed for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor .
• When using this product fever and nasal congestion are not symptoms of teething and may indicate the presence of infection .
If these symptoms do not go away , advise your dentist or doctor .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if sore mouth symptoms do not get better in 7 days .
swelling , rash or fever develops , irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Purpose anaesthetic Active Ingredient Benzocaine 7 . 5 % Other information store at 15 to 25 C ( 59 - 77 F ) Directions • wash hands • cut open tip of tube on score mark • use your fingertip or cotton applicator to apply a small pea - size amount of baby teething gel • apply to affected area up to four times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor • for infants under 4 months of age , ask a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients FD & C yellow 5 , FD & C Red 40 , Flavor , Glycerin , Poropylene Glycols , Purified Water , Sorbic Acid , , carbomer , methyl paraben , propyl paraben when using this product Fever and nasal congestion are not symptoms of teething and may indicate the presence of infection .
If these symptoms do not go away .
advise your physician stop using and ask a dentist or physician • sore mouth symptoms do not get better in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness does not go away • swelling , rash or fever develops keep out of reach of children in case of overdose or allergic reaction contact a poison control center right away questions www . ohiolabpharma . us NET WEIGHT 0 . 33 oz ( 9 . 4 g ) NDC # 70648 - 999 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
