Active ingredient Benzocaine 5 % ( w / v ) Purpose : oral pain reliever Uses For temporary relief of occasional minor oral irritation , oral pain , and sore mouth .
METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • dizziness or lightheadedness • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or any other ‘ caine ’ anesthetics .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever headache , rash , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do Not Use Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Mix packet with 0 . 1 oz water and apply the rinse to the affected area .
Gargle , swish around in the mouth , or allow to remain in place 1 minute then Spit Out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of the product .
Children under 2 years of age : do not use Inactive ingredients Calcium Chloride , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , Silicon Dioxide , Sodium Chloride Questions Call 1 - 855 - 696 - 7254 ( M - F 8 : 30 - 5 : 30 CST ) You may also report side effects to this phone number .
oral pain reliever NDC 70275 - 0406 - 03 SalivaCAINE Oral Pain Reliever ( Benzocaine 5 % ) 30 Packets Dissolving Powder Mix with water before use Benzocaine 150 mg / 0 . 1 oz 418 mg per packet - 12 . 54 g total [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
