DESCRIPTIONBeclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate , the active component of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray , is an anti - inflammatory steroid having the chemical name 9 - chloro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , monohydrate and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Beclomethasone 17 , 21 - dipropionate is a diester of beclomethasone , a synthetic halogenated corticosteroid .
Beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate is a white to creamy - white , odorless powder with a molecular weight of 539 . 06 .
It is very slightly soluble in water , very soluble in chloroform , and freely soluble in acetone and in ethanol .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray is a metered - dose , manual pump spray unit containing a microcrystalline suspension of beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate equivalent to 42 mcg of beclomethasone dipropionate , calculated on the dried basis , in an aqueous medium containing microcrystalline cellulose , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , benzalkonium chloride , polysorbate 80 , and 0 . 25 % v / w phenylethyl alcohol .
The pH through expiry is 5 . 0 to 6 . 8 .
After initial priming ( 6 actuations ) , each actuation of the pump delivers from the nasal adapter 100 mg of suspension containing beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate equivalent to 42 mcg of beclomethasone dipropionate .
If the pump is not used for 7 days , it should be primed until a fine spray appears .
Each 25 - g bottle of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray provides 180 metered sprays .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYMechanism of ActionFollowing topical administration , beclomethasone dipropionate produces anti - inflammatory and vasoconstrictor effects .
The mechanisms responsible for the anti - inflammatory action of beclomethasone dipropionate are unknown .
Corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of effects on multiple cell types ( e . g . , mast cells , eosinophils , neutrophils , macrophages , and lymphocytes ) and mediators ( e . g . , histamine , eicosanoids , leukotrienes , and cytokines ) involved in inflammation .
The direct relationship of these findings to the effects of beclomethasone dipropionate on allergic rhinitis symptoms is not known .
Biopsies of nasal mucosa obtained during clinical studies showed no histopathologic changes when beclomethasone dipropionate was administered intranasally .
Beclomethasone dipropionate is a pro - drug with weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity .
It is hydrolyzed via esterase enzymes to its active metabolite beclomethasone - 17 - monopropionate ( B - 17 - MP ) , which has high topical anti - inflammatory activity .
PharmacokineticsAbsorptionBeclomethasone dipropionate is sparingly soluble in water .
When given by nasal inhalation in the form of an aqueous or aerosolized suspension , the drug is deposited primarily in the nasal passages .
The majority of the drug is eventually swallowed .
Following intranasal administration of aqueous beclomethasone dipropionate , the systemic absorption was assessed by measuring the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite B - 17 - MP , for which the absolute bioavailability following intranasal administration is 44 % ( 43 % of the administered dose came from the swallowed portion and only 1 % of the total dose was bioavailable from the nose ) .
The absorption of unchanged beclomethasone dipropionate following oral and intranasal dosing was undetectable ( plasma concentrations less than 50 pg / mL ) .
DistributionThe tissue distribution at steady state for beclomethasone dipropionate is moderate ( 20 L ) but more extensive for B - 17 - MP ( 424 L ) .
There is no evidence of tissue storage of beclomethasone dipropionate or its metabolites .
Plasma protein binding is moderately high ( 87 % ) .
MetabolismBeclomethasone dipropionate is cleared very rapidly from the systemic circulation by metabolism mediated via esterase enzymes that are found in most tissues .
The main product of metabolism is the active metabolite ( B - 17 - MP ) .
Minor inactive metabolites , beclomethasone - 21 - monopropionate ( B - 21 - MP ) and beclomethasone ( BOH ) , are also formed , but these contribute little to systemic exposure .
EliminationThe elimination of beclomethasone dipropionate and B - 17 - MP after intravenous administration are characterized by high plasma clearance ( 150 and 120 L / hour ) with corresponding terminal elimination half - lives of 0 . 5 and 2 . 7 hours .
Following oral administration of tritiated beclomethasone dipropionate , approximately 60 % of the dose was excreted in the feces within 96 hours , mainly as free and conjugated polar metabolites .
Approximately 12 % of the dose was excreted as free and conjugated polar metabolites in the urine .
The renal clearance of beclomethasone dipropionate and its metabolites is negligible .
PharmacodynamicsThe effects of beclomethasone dipropionate on hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) function have been evaluated in adult volunteers by other routes of administration .
Studies with beclomethasone dipropionate by the intranasal route may demonstrate that there is more or that there is less absorption by this route of administration .
There was no suppression of early morning plasma cortisol concentrations when beclomethasone dipropionate was administered in a dose of 1 , 000 mcg / day for 1 month as an oral aerosol or for 3 days by intramuscular injection .
However , partial suppression of plasma cortisol concentrations was observed when beclomethasone dipropionate was administered in doses of 2 , 000 mcg / day either by oral aerosol or intramuscular injection .
Immediate suppression of plasma cortisol concentrations was observed after single doses of 4 , 000 mcg of beclomethasone dipropionate .
Suppression of HPA function ( reduction of early morning plasma cortisol levels ) has been reported in adult patients who received 1 , 600 - mcg daily doses of oral beclomethasone dipropionate for 1 month .
In clinical studies using beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol intranasally , there was no evidence of adrenal insufficiency .
The effect of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray on HPA function was not evaluated but would not be expected to differ from intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol .
In 1 study in children with asthma , the administration of inhaled beclomethasone at recommended daily doses for at least 1 year was associated with a reduction in nocturnal cortisol secretion .
The clinical significance of this finding is not clear .
It reinforces other evidence , however , that topical beclomethasone may be absorbed in amounts that can have systemic effects and that physicians should be alert for evidence of systemic effects , especially in chronically treated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGEBECONASE AQ Nasal Spray is indicated for the relief of the symptoms of seasonal or perennial allergic and nonallergic ( vasomotor ) rhinitis .
Results from 2 clinical trials have shown that significant symptomatic relief was obtained within 3 days .
However , symptomatic relief may not occur in some patients for as long as 2 weeks .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should not be continued beyond 3 weeks in the absence of significant symptomatic improvement .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should not be used in the presence of untreated localized infection involving the nasal mucosa .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray is also indicated for the prevention of recurrence of nasal polyps following surgical removal .
Clinical studies have shown that treatment of the symptoms associated with nasal polyps may have to be continued for several weeks or more before a therapeutic result can be fully assessed .
Recurrence of symptoms due to polyps can occur after stopping treatment , depending on the severity of the disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONSHypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation contraindicates its use .
WARNINGSThe replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency .
Careful attention must be given when patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids are transferred to BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
This is particularly important in those patients who have associated asthma or other clinical conditions where too rapid a decrease in systemic corticosteroids may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms .
If recommended doses of intranasal beclomethasone are exceeded or if individuals are particularly sensitive or predisposed by virtue of recent systemic steroid therapy , symptoms of hypercorticism may occur , including very rare cases of menstrual irregularities , acneiform lesions , cataracts , and cushingoid features .
If such changes occur , BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral steroid therapy .
Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals .
Chickenpox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids .
In children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route , and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed to chickenpox , prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information . )
If chickenpox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralIntranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids , some patients may experience symptoms of withdrawal , e . g . , joint and / or muscular pain , lassitude , and depression .
Rarely , immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the intranasal administration of beclomethasone ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Rare instances of nasal septum perforation have been spontaneously reported .
Rare instances of wheezing , cataracts , glaucoma , and increased intraocular pressure have been reported following the intranasal use of beclomethasone dipropionate .
In clinical studies with beclomethasone dipropionate administered intranasally , the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred only rarely .
When such an infection develops , it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of treatment with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
If persistent nasopharyngeal irritation occurs , it may be an indication for stopping BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
Beclomethasone dipropionate is absorbed into the circulation .
Use of excessive doses of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray may suppress HPA function .
Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract , untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
For BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray to be effective in the treatment of nasal polyps , the spray must be able to enter the nose .
Therefore , treatment of nasal polyps with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should be considered adjunctive therapy to surgical removal and / or the use of other medications that will permit effective penetration of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray into the nose .
Nasal polyps may recur after any form of treatment .
As with any long - term treatment , patients using BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for possible changes in the nasal mucosa .
Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing , patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulcers , nasal surgery , or nasal trauma should not use a nasal corticosteroid until healing has occurred .
Although systemic effects have been minimal with recommended doses , this potential increases with excessive doses .
Therefore , larger than recommended doses should be avoided .
ADVERSE REACTIONSIn general , side effects in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes .
Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials and open studies in patients treated with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray are described below .
Mild nasopharyngeal irritation following the use of beclomethasone aqueous nasal spray has been reported in up to 24 % of patients treated , including occasional sneezing attacks ( about 4 % ) occurring immediately following use of the spray .
In patients experiencing these symptoms , none had to discontinue treatment .
The incidence of transient irritation and sneezing was approximately the same in the group of patients who received placebo in these studies , implying that these complaints may be related to vehicle components of the formulation .
Fewer than 5 per 100 patients reported headache , nausea , or lightheadedness following the use of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
Fewer than 3 per 100 patients reported nasal stuffiness , nosebleeds , rhinorrhea , or tearing eyes .
Rare cases of ulceration of the nasal mucosa and instances of nasal septum perforation have been spontaneously reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Reports of dryness and irritation of the nose and throat and unpleasant taste and smell have been received .
There are rare reports of loss of taste and smell .
Rare instances of wheezing , cataracts , glaucoma , and increased intraocular pressure have been reported following the use of intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Rare cases of immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactoid / anaphylactic reactions , urticaria , angioedema , rash , and bronchospasm , have been reported following the oral and intranasal inhalation of beclomethasone dipropionate .
Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids , including BECONASE AQ ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
OVERDOSAGEWhen used at excessive doses , systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear .
If such changes occur , BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral steroid therapy .
No deaths occurred when beclomethasone dipropionate was given as single oral doses of 3 , 000 mg / kg to mice ( approximately 36 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis , or approximately 21 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children on a mg / m2 basis ) and 2 , 000 mg / kg to rats ( approximately 48 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults or approximately 29 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
One bottle of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray contains beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate equivalent to 10 . 5 mg of beclomethasone dipropionate ; therefore , acute overdosage is unlikely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONAdults and Children 12 Years of Age and OlderThe usual dosage is 1 or 2 nasal inhalations ( 42 to 84 mcg ) in each nostril twice a day ( total dose , 168 to 336 mcg / day ) .
Children 6 to 12 Years of AgePatients should be started with 1 nasal inhalation in each nostril twice daily ; patients not adequately responding to 168 mcg or those with more severe symptoms may use 336 mcg ( 2 inhalations in each nostril ) .
Once adequate control is achieved , the dosage should be decreased to 84 mcg ( 1 spray in each nostril ) twice daily .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray is not recommended for children below 6 years of age .
The maximum total daily dosage should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril twice daily ( 336 mcg / day ) .
In patients who respond to BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray , an improvement of the symptoms of seasonal or perennial rhinitis usually becomes apparent within a few days after the start of therapy with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
However , symptomatic relief may not occur in some patients for as long as 2 weeks .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should not be continued beyond 3 weeks in the absence of significant symptomatic improvement .
The therapeutic effects of corticosteroids , unlike those of decongestants , are not immediate .
This should be explained to the patient in advance in order to ensure cooperation and continuation of treatment with the prescribed dosage regimen .
In the presence of excessive nasal mucous secretion or edema of the nasal mucosa , the drug may fail to reach the site of intended action .
In such cases it is advisable to use a nasal vasoconstrictor during the first 2 to 3 days of therapy with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
Directions for UseIllustrated Patient ' s Instructions for Use accompany each package of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray .
HOW SUPPLIEDBECONASE AQ Nasal Spray , 42 mcg is supplied in an amber glass bottle fitted with a metering atomizing pump and nasal adapter in a box of 1 ( NDC 0173 - 0388 - 79 ) with patient ’ s instructions for use .
Each bottle contains 25 g of suspension and will provide 180 metered sprays .
The correct amount of medication in each spray cannot be assured after 180 sprays even though the bottle is not completely empty .
The bottle should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations has been used .
Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 April 2005 RL - 2182 Information for PatientsPatients being treated with BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid them in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients should use BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray at regular intervals since its effectiveness depends on its regular use .
The patient should take the medication as directed .
It is not acutely effective , and the prescribed dosage should not be increased .
Instead , nasal vasoconstrictors or oral antihistamines may be needed until the effects of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray are fully manifested .
One to 2 weeks may pass before full relief is obtained .
The patient should contact the physician if symptoms do not improve , if the condition worsens , or if sneezing or nasal irritation occurs .
For the proper use of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray and to attain maximum improvement , the patient should read and follow carefully the patient ' s instructions accompanying the product .
Persons who are using immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles .
Patients should also be advised that if they are exposed , medical advice should be sought without delay .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThe carcinogenicity of beclomethasone dipropionate was evaluated in rats that were exposed for a total of 95 weeks , 13 weeks at inhalation doses up to 0 . 4 mg / kg and the remaining 82 weeks at combined oral and inhalation doses up to 2 . 4 mg / kg .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in this study at the highest dose , approximately 60 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis or approximately 35 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children on a mg / m2 basis .
Beclomethasone dipropionate did not induce gene mutation in bacterial cells or mammalian Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells in vitro .
No significant clastogenic effect was seen in cultured CHO cells in vitro or in the mouse micronucleus test in vivo .
In rats , beclomethasone dipropionate caused decreased conception rates at an oral dose of 16 mg / kg ( approximately 390 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no significant effect of beclomethasone dipropionate on fertility in rats at oral doses of 1 . 6 mg / kg ( approximately 40 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Inhibition of the estrous cycle in dogs was observed following oral dosing at 0 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 40 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No inhibition of the estrous cycle in dogs was seen following 12 months ’ exposure at an estimated inhalation dose of 0 . 33 mg / kg ( approximately 25 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category C . Like other corticosteroids , beclomethasone dipropionate was teratogenic and embryocidal in the mouse and rabbit at a subcutaneous dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg in mice or 0 . 025 mg / kg in rabbits ( approximately equal to the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No teratogenicity or embryocidal effects were seen in rats when exposed to an inhalation dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg plus oral doses of up to 10 mg / kg per day for a combined dose of 10 . 1 mg / kg ( approximately 240 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Beclomethasone dipropionate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic EffectsHypoadrenalism may occur in infants born of mothers receiving corticosteroids during pregnancy .
Such infants should be carefully observed .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether beclomethasone dipropionate is excreted in human milk .
Because other corticosteroids are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseThe safety and effectiveness of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray have been established in children aged 6 years and above through evidence from extensive clinical use in adult and pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray in children below 6 years of age have not been established .
Controlled clinical studies have shown that intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity in pediatric patients .
This effect has been observed in the absence of laboratory evidence of HPA axis suppression , suggesting that growth velocity is a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients than some commonly used tests of HPA axis function .
The long - term effects of this reduction in growth velocity associated with intranasal corticosteroids , including the impact on final adult height , are unknown .
The potential for “ catch - up ” growth following discontinuation of treatment with intranasal corticosteroids has not been adequately studied .
The growth of pediatric patients receiving intranasal corticosteroids , including BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray , should be monitored routinely ( e . g . , via stadiometry ) .
The potential growth effects of prolonged treatment should be weighed against the clinical benefits obtained and the risks / benefits of treatment alternatives .
To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids , including BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray , each patient should be titrated to the lowest dose that effectively controls his / her symptoms .
In a double - blind , controlled trial , 100 children between the ages of 6 and 9 ½ years with allergic rhinitis were randomized to receive aqueous intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate 168 mcg twice daily or placebo for 1 year .
As measured by stadiometry , children who received beclomethasone dipropionate grew more slowly than those who received placebo .
A difference in mean change in height was observed within 1 month of drug initiation .
At the end of 12 months , the beclomethasone dipropionate - treated group had a growth velocity on average of 4 . 75 cm / year compared to 6 . 20 cm / year in the placebo group ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
While the placebo group had an expected distribution of growth velocity , approximately 50 % of the beclomethasone dipropionate - treated children grew below the 10 th percentile .
In children 7 . 3 years of age , the mean age of children in this study , the range for expected growth velocity is : boys − 3 rd percentile = 4 . 1 cm / year , 50 th percentile = 5 . 8 cm / year , and 97 th percentile = 7 . 5 cm / year ; girls − 3 rd percentile = 4 . 3 cm / year , 50 th percentile = 5 . 9 cm / year , and 97 th percentile = 7 . 5 cm / year .
The potential reversibility of the reduction in growth velocity was not studied .
No significant differences were observed between the 2 groups for mean basal plasma cortisol or ACTH - stimulated plasma cortisol levels .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Patient ' s Instructions for UsePHARMACIST — DETACH HERE AND GIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO PATIENT _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ BECONASE AQ ® ( beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate ) Nasal Spray , 42 mcg For Intranasal Use Only .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE .
Patient ’ s Instructions for Use Shake the suspension spray bottle well before using it . Read complete instructionscarefully and use only as directed .
To Use : 1 .
Remove the safety clip and the plastic dust cap from the nasal applicator ( Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
The very first time the spray is used , prime the pump into the air by pressing downward on the white collar , using your forefinger and middle finger while supporting the base of the bottle with your thumb .
When you prime the pump for the first time , press down and release the pump 6 times or until a fine spray appears ( Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The pump is now ready for use .
If the pump is not used for 7 days , prime until a fine spray appears .
3 .
Gently blow your nose to clear your nostrils .
Close 1 nostril .
Tilt your head forward slightly and , keeping the bottle upright , carefully insert the nasal applicator into the other nostril ( Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
For each spray , press firmly downward once on the white collar , using your forefinger and middle finger while supporting the base of the bottle with your thumb .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Breathe gently inward through the nostril . 5 .
Breathe out through your mouth .
6 .
Repeat steps 5 through 7 in the other nostril .
7 .
Replace the plastic dust cap and safety clip .
8 .
DISCARD THE BOTTLE AFTER the date calculated by your doctor or pharmacist .
The correct amount of medication in each spray cannot be assured after 180 sprays even though the bottle is not completely empty .
Discard the bottle after 180 sprays .
Before the discard date you should consult your doctor to see if a refill is needed .
Do not take extra doses or stop taking BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray without consulting your doctor .
Cleansing : To clean the nasal applicator , remove the plastic dust cap and safety clip and then press gently upward on the white collar to free the nasal applicator .
Wash the applicator and dust cap with cold water .
Dry and replace with the plastic dust cap and safety clip back in position .
If the nasal applicator becomes blocked , remove the dust cap , unscrew the complete pump mechanism , and soak the pump in warm water for a few minutes .
Rinse with cold water , dry , refit to bottle , and reprime the pump .
Caution : BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray is not intended to give rapid relief of your nasal symptoms .
BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray controls the underlying disorders responsible for your attacks , so it is important that you use it regularly at the times recommended by your doctor .
The full benefit of BECONASE AQ Nasal Spray may take a few days to develop .
Storage : Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 April 2005 RL - 2182 Principal Display PanelNDC 0173 - 0388 - 79 Beconase AQ ® ( beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate ) Nasal Spray , 42 mcg 25 g 180 Metered Sprays Spray - For Intranasal Use Only Rx only Important : Read accompanying directions carefully .
See package insert for Dosage Information .
After initial priming ( 6 actuations ) , each actuation of the pump delivers 100 mg of aqueous suspension containing beclomethasone dipropionate , monohydrate equivalent to 42 mcg of beclomethasone dipropionate and microcrystalline cellulose , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , benzalkonium chloride , polysorbate 80 , and 0 . 25 % v / w phenylethyl alcohol .
Store between 15 o and 30 oC ( 59 o and 86 oF ) .
Shake well before each use .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Made in Canada A018016 Rev . 7 / 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label Image [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
