[ MULTIMEDIA ] OTC - ACTIVE INGREDIENT SECTION Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus Oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • On chest an throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold • On muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains WARNINGS SECTION For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes OTC - DO NOT USE SECTION By mouth With tight bandages In nostrils On wounds or damaged skin OTC - ASK DOCTOR SECTION Before use if you have a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) persistant or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema OTC - WHEN USING SECTION Do not heat , microwave , add to hot water or any container where heating water may cause spattering and result in burns OTC - STOP USE SECTION Stop use and ask a doctor if muscle aches and pain persist for more than 7 days or come back .
Cough lasts more than 7 days or comes back or occurs with fever , rash , or persistant headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
OTC - PREGNANCY OR BREAST FEEDING SECTION If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
OTC - KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN SECTION Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Immediately .
OTC - QUESTIONS SECTION Questions or comments ?
www . jflbeautyclub . com 800 - 262 - 2326 773 - 838 - 1336 DIRECTIONS See important warnings under " When using this product " .
Adults and children 2 years and older , rub on throat and chest in a thick layer .
Cover with a warm dry cloth if desired .
Clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth .
Use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 2 years of age : Ask a doctor .
INACTIVE INGREDIENT SECTION Petrolatum , Mineral Oil , Cedarleaf Oil , Nutmeg Oil , Spirits of Turpentine , Thymol STORAGE AND HANDLING SECTION Store at room temperature PACKAGE LABEL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Lusti Professional Vaporizing Rub Medicated Cough suppressantTopical analgesic Relieves minor muscle aches and pains Net Wt .
4 Oz .
( 113 g ) Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Camphor 4 . 8 % Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Cough suppressant Menthol 2 . 6 % Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • On chest an throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold • On muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes Do not use • By mouth • With tight bandages • In nostrils • On wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • A cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • Persistant or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • Heat • Microwave • Add to hot water or any container where heating water may cause spattering and result in burns Stop use an ask a doctor if • Muscle aches and pain persist for more than 7 days or come back • Cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistant headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately See important warnings under " When using this product " • Adults and children 2 years and older • Rub on throat and chest in a thick layer • Cover with a warm dry cloth if desired • Clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • Use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • Children under 2 years of age : Ask a doctor .
Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients : petrolatum , mineral oil , cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , spirits of turpentine , thymol Questions or comments ?
www . jflbeautyclub . com 800 - 262 - 2326 or 773 - 838 - 1336 Made in USA JF LABS , INC .
Chicago , Illinois 60629
