Rx Only DESCRIPTION Benztropine mesylate is a synthetic compound containing structural features found in atropine and diphenhydramine .
It is designated chemically as 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] octane , 3 - ( diphenylmethoxy ) - , endo , methanesulfonate .
Its empirical formula is C21H25NO • CH4O3S , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Benztropine mesylate is a crystalline white powder , very soluble in water , and has a molecular weight of 403 . 54 .
Benztropine mesylate injection , USP is supplied as a sterile injection for intravenous and intramuscular use .
Each milliliter of the injection contains : Benztropine mesylate USP ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 mg Sodium chloride USP ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9 mg Water for injection USP q . s . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIONS Benztropine mesylate injection , USP possesses both anticholinergic and antihistaminic effects , although only the former have been established as therapeutically significant in the management of parkinsonism .
In the isolated guinea pig ileum , the anticholinergic activity of this drug is about equal to that of atropine ; however , when administered orally to unanesthetized cats , it is only about half as active as atropine .
In laboratory animals , its antihistaminic activity and duration of action approach those of pyrilamine maleate .
INDICATIONS For use as an adjunct in the therapy of all forms of parkinsonism ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Useful also in the control of extrapyramidal disorders ( except tardive dyskinesia — see PRECAUTIONS ) due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of Benztropine mesylate injection , USP .
Because of its atropine - like side effects , this drug is contraindicated in pediatric patients under three years of age , and should be used with caution in older pediatric patients .
WARNINGS Safe use in pregnancy has not been established .
Benztropine mesylate injection , USP may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
When Benztropine mesylate injection , USP is given concomitantly with phenothiazines , haloperidol , or other drugs with anticholinergic or antidopaminergic activity , patients should be advised to report gastrointestinal complaints , fever or heat intolerance promptly .
Paralytic ileus , hyperthermia and heat stroke , all of which have sometimes been fatal , have occurred in patients taking anticholinergic - type antiparkinsonism drugs , including Benztropine mesylate injection , USP in combination with phenothiazines and / or tricyclic antidepressants .
Since Benztropine mesylate injection , USP contains structural features of atropine , it may produce anhidrosis .
For this reason , it should be administered with caution during hot weather , especially when given concomitantly with other atropine - like drugs to the chronically ill , the alcoholic , those who have central nervous system disease , and those who do manual labor in a hot environment .
Anhidrosis may occur more readily when some disturbance of sweating already exists .
If there is evidence of anhidrosis , the possibility of hyperthermia should be considered .
Dosage should be decreased at the discretion of the physician so that the ability to maintain body heat equilibrium by perspiration is not impaired .
Severe anhidrosis and fatal hyperthermia have occurred .
PRECAUTIONS General : Since Benztropine mesylate injection , USP has cumulative action , continued supervision is advisable .
Patients with a tendency to tachycardia and patients with prostatic hypertrophy should be observed closely during treatment .
Dysuria may occur , but rarely becomes a problem .
Urinary retention has been reported with Benztropine mesylate injection , USP .
The drug may cause complaints of weakness and inability to move particular muscle groups , especially in large doses .
For example , if the neck has been rigid and suddenly relaxes , it may feel weak , causing some concern .
In this event , dosage adjustment is required .
Mental confusion and excitement may occur with large doses , or in susceptible patients .
Visual hallucinations have been reported occasionally .
Furthermore , in the treatment of extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , in patients with mental disorders , occasionally there may be intensification of mental symptoms .
In such cases , antiparkinsonian drugs can precipitate a toxic psychosis .
Patients with mental disorders should be kept under careful observation , especially at the beginning of treatment or if dosage is increased .
Tardive dyskinesia may appear in some patients on long - term therapy with phenothiazines and related agents , or may occur after therapy with these drugs have been discontinued .
Antiparkinsonism agents do not alleviate the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia , and in some instances may aggravate them .
Benztropine mesylate injection , USP is not recommended for use in patients with tardive dyskinesia .
The physician should be aware of the possible occurrence of glaucoma .
Although the drug does not appear to have any adverse effect on simple glaucoma , it probably should not be used in angle - closure glaucoma .
Drug Interactions : Antipsychotic drugs such as phenothiazines or haloperidol ; tricyclic antidepressants ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use : Because of the atropine - like side effects , Benztropine mesylate injection , USP should be used with caution in pediatric patients over three years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Benztropine mesylate injection , USP did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should start at the low end of the dosing range ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) and the dose should be increased only as needed with monitoring for the emergence of adverse events ( see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions below , most of which are anticholinergic in nature , have been reported and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia .
Digestive : Paralytic ileus , constipation , vomiting , nausea , dry mouth .
If dry mouth is so severe that there is difficulty in swallowing or speaking , or loss of appetite and weight , reduce dosage , or discontinue the drug temporarily .
Slight reduction in dosage may control nausea and still give sufficient relief of symptoms .
Vomiting may be controlled by temporary discontinuation , followed by resumption at a lower dosage .
Nervous System : Toxic psychosis , including confusion , disorientation , memory impairment , visual hallucinations ; exacerbation of pre - existing psychotic symptoms ; nervousness ; depression ; listlessness ; numbness of fingers .
Special Senses : Blurred vision , dilated pupils .
Urogenital : Urinary retention , dysuria .
Metabolic / Immune or Skin : Occasionally , an allergic reaction , e . g . , skin rash , develops .
If this cannot be controlled by dosage reduction , the medication should be discontinued .
Other : Heat stroke , hyperthermia , fever .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Navinta LLC ( USA ) at + 1 - ( 609 ) - 883 - 1135 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Since there is no significant difference in onset of effect after intravenous or intramuscular injection , usually there is no need to use the intravenous route .
The drug is quickly effective after either route , with improvement sometimes noticeable a few minutes after injection .
In emergency situations , when the condition of the patient is alarming , 1 to 2 mL of the injection normally will provide quick relief .
If the parkinsonian effect begins to return , the dose can be repeated .
Because of cumulative action , therapy should be initiated with a low dose which is increased gradually at five or six - day intervals to the smallest amount necessary for optimal relief .
Increases should be made in increments of 0 . 5 mg , to a maximum of 6 mg , or until optimal results are obtained without excessive adverse reactions .
Postencephalitic and Idiopathic Parkinsonism : The following dosing guidelines were written in reference to both benztropine mesylate tablets and Benztropine mesylate injection .
Benztropine mesylate tablets should be used when patients are able to take oral medication .
The usual daily dose is 1 to 2 mg , with a range of 0 . 5 to 6 mg parenterally .
As with any agent used in parkinsonism , dosage must be individualized according to age and weight , and the type of parkinsonism being treated .
Generally , older patients , and thin patients cannot tolerate large doses .
Most patients with postencephalitic parkinsonism need fairly large doses and tolerate them well .
Patients with a poor mental outlook are usually poor candidates for therapy .
In idiopathic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated with a single daily dose of 0 . 5 to 1 mg at bedtime .
In some patients , this will be adequate ; in others 4 to 6 mg a day may be required .
In postencephalitic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated in most patients with 2 mg a day in one or more doses .
In highly sensitive patients , therapy may be initiated with 0 . 5 mg at bedtime , and increased as necessary .
Some patients experience greatest relief when given the entire dose at bedtime ; others react more favorably to divided doses , two to four times a day .
Frequently , one dose a day is sufficient , and divided doses may be unnecessary or undesirable .
The long duration of action of this drug makes it particularly suitable for bedtime medication when its effects may last throughout the night , enabling patients to turn in bed during the night more easily , and to rise in the morning .
When Benztropine mesylate injection , USP is started , do not terminate therapy with other antiparkinsonian agents abruptly .
If the other agents are to be reduced or discontinued , it must be done gradually .
Many patients obtain greatest relief with combination therapy .
Benztropine mesylate injection , USP may be used concomitantly with SINEMET ( Ccarbidopa - Levodopalevodopa ) , or with levodopa , in which case dosage adjustment may be required in order to maintain optimum response .
Drug - Induced Extrapyramidal Disorders : In treating extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , the recommended dosage is 1 to 4 mg once or twice a day parenterally .
Dosage must be individualized according to the need of the patient .
Some patients require more than recommended ; others do not need as much .
In acute dystonic reactions , 1 to 2 mL of the injection usually relieves the condition quickly .
When extrapyramidal disorders develop soon after initiation of treatment with neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , they are likely to be transient .
One to 2 mg of Benztropine mesylate injection , USP two or three times a day usually provides relief within one or two days .
If such disorders recur , Benztropine mesylate injection , USP can be reinstituted .
Certain drug - induced extrapyramidal disorders that develop slowly may not respond to Benztropine mesylate injection , USP .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations : May be any of those seen in atropine poisoning or antihistamine overdosage : CNS depression , preceded or followed by stimulation ; confusion ; nervousness ; listlessness ; intensification of mental symptoms or toxic psychosis in patients with mental illness being treated with neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) ; hallucinations ( especially visual ) ; dizziness ; muscle weakness ; ataxia ; dry mouth ; mydriasis ; blurred vision ; palpitations ; tachycardia ; elevated blood pressure ; nausea ; vomiting ; dysuria ; numbness of fingers ; dysphagia ; allergic reactions , e . g . , skin rash ; headache ; hot , dry , flushed skin ; delirium ; coma ; shock ; convulsions ; respiratory arrest ; anhidrosis ; hyperthermia ; glaucoma ; constipation .
Treatment : Physostigmine salicylate , 1 to 2 mg , SC or IV , reportedly will reverse symptoms of anticholinergic intoxication .
** A second injection may be given after 2 hours if required .
Otherwise treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
Maintain respiration .
A short - acting barbiturate may be used for CNS excitement , but with caution to avoid subsequent depression ; supportive care for depression ( avoid convulsant stimulants such as picrotoxin , pentylenetetrazol , or bemegride ) ; artificial respiration for severe respiratory depression ; a local miotic for mydriasis and cycloplegia ; ice bags or other cold applications and alcohol sponges for hyperpyrexia , a vasopressor and fluids for circulatory collapse .
Darken room for photophobia .
** Duvoisin , R . C . ; Katz , R . J . ; Amer .
Med .
Ass .
206 : 1963 - 1965 , Nov . 25 , 1968 .
HOW SUPPLIED Benztropine mesylate injection , USP , 2 mg per 2 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) , is a clear , colorless solution and is supplied as follows : - ( NDC 68475 - 512 - 01 ) 2 mL vial ( NDC 68475 - 512 - 02 ) Carton of 5 X 2 mL vials Recommended Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Navinta LLC Ewing , NJ 08618 , USA Revised November 2020 30241120 R0 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
