Minoxidil 5 % Hair Regrowth Treatment for Men For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if : • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • Your hair loss is associated with childbirth • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children • Your scalp is red , inflamed , irritated or painful • You use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of tap water • Some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture it takes time to regrow hair .
• You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results • The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
• This product may not work for everyone .
Stop use and / or ask a doctor if • Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , dizziness or unexplained weight gain occurs • Your hands or feet swell • Scalp irritation or redness occurs • Unwanted facial hair growth occurs • You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful is used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Using dropper , apply one mL directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area For best results use twice daily on dry towel dried hair .
Use fingertips to massage solution into skin Other Information • Store at controlled room temperature 68º to 77ºF ( 20º - 25ºC ) Other Ingredients Azelaic Acid , Retinol , Caffeine , Biotin , Saw Palmetto Extract , Nettle Extract 10 : 1 , Pygeum Bark Extract , Water , SD Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Gransolve DMI , Fresh Blue Agave , Zinc Sulfate , Vitamin B6 .
Questions or comments : 1 - 281 - 454 - 3563 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
