DESCRIPTION Terra - Cortril suspension combines the antibiotic , oxytetracycline HCl ( C22H24N2O9 • HCl ) and the adrenocorticoid , hydrocortisone acetate ( C23H32O6 ) .
Each ml of Terra - Cortril contains Terramycin ( oxytetracycline HCl ) equivalent to 5 mg of oxytetracycline , and 15 mg of Cortril ( hydrocortisone acetate ) incorporated in mineral oil with aluminum tristearate .
For Ophthalmic Use Only .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow healing .
Since corticoids may inhibit the body ' s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
The anti - infective component in the combination is included to provide action against specific organisms susceptible to it .
Terramycin is considered active against the following microorganisms : • Rickettsiae ( Rocky Mountain spotted fever , typhus fever and the typhus group , Q fever , rickettsialpox and tick fevers ) , • Mycoplasma pneumoniae ( PPLO , Eaton Agent ) , • Agents of psittacosis and ornithosis , • Agents of lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale , • The spirochetal agent of relapsing fever ( Borrelia recurrentis ) .
The following gram - negative microorganisms : • Haemophilus ducreyi ( chancroid ) , • Pasteurella pestis and Pasteurella tularensis , • Bartonella bacilliformis , • Bacteroides species , • Vibrio comma and Vibrio fetus , • Brucella species ( in conjunction with streptomycin ) .
Because many strains of the following groups of microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility testing are recommended .
Oxytetracycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram - negative microorganisms , when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug : • Escherichia coli , • Enterobacter aerogenes ( formerly Aerobacter aerogenes ) , • Shigella species , • Mima species and Herellea species , • Haemophilus influenzae ( respiratory infections ) , • Klebsiella species ( respiratory and urinary infections ) .
Oxytetracycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram - positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug : Streptococcus species : Up to 44 percent of strains of Streptococcus pyogenes and 74 percent of Streptococcus faecalis have been found to be resistant to tetracycline drugs .
Therefore , tetracyclines should not be used for streptococcal disease unless the organism has been demonstrated to be sensitive .
For upper respiratory infections due to Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci , pencillin is the usual drug of choice , including prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Diplococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus , skin and soft tissue infections .
Oxytetracycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infections .
When penicillin is contraindicated , tetracyclines are alternative drugs in the treatment of infections due to : • Neisseria gonorrhoeae , • Treponema pallidum and Treponema pertenue ( syphilis and yaws ) , • Listeria monocytogenes , • Clostridium species , • Bacillus anthracis , • Fusobacterium fusiforme ( Vincent ' s infection ) , • Actinomyces species .
Tetracyclines are indicated in the treatment of trachoma , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated , as judged by immunofluorescence .
Inclusion conjunctivitis may be treated with oral tetracyclines or with a combination of oral and topical agents .
When a decision to administer both a corticoid and an antimicrobial is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of both drugs is administered , plus assured compatibility of ingredients when both types of drug are in the same formulation and , particularly , that the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration , and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists .
Ocular steroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of steroid use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical radiation , thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye .
The particular anti - infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : • Staphylococcus aureus • Streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae • Escherichia coli • Neisseria species The product does not provide adequate coverage against : • Haemophilus influenzae • Klebsiella / Enterobacter species • Pseudomonas aeruginosa • Serratia marcescens CONTRAINDICATIONS Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
Mycobacterial infection of the eye .
Fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Hypersensitivity to a component of the medication .
( Hypersensitivity to the antibiotic component occurs at a higher rate than for other components . )
The use of these combinations is always contraindicated after uncomplicated removal of a corneal foreign body .
WARNINGS Prolonged use may result in glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Employment of steroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex requires great caution .
PRECAUTIONS The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 milliliters should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged steroid dosing .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component , the anti - infective component , or the combination .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations .
The reactions due to the steroid component in decreasing order of frequency are : elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials .
Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroid .
The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used .
Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill 1 or 2 drops of Terra - Cortril Ophthalmic Suspension into the affected eye three times daily .
Not more than 20 milliliters should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in " Precautions " above .
HOW SUPPLIED Terra - Cortril Ophthalmic Suspension ( NDC 0049 - 0670 - 48 ) is supplied in 5 ml vials with separate sterile dropper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0194 - 2 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
