WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( see WARNINGS , Fetal Toxicity ) .
DESCRIPTION Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are a combination of telmisartan , an orally active angiotensin II antagonist acting on the AT1 receptor subtype , and hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic . Telmisartan , a non - peptide molecule , is chemically described as 4 ’ - [ ( 1 , 4 ’ - dimethyl - 2 ’ - propyl [ 2 , 6 ’ - bi - 1 H - benzimidazol ] - 1 ’ - yl ) methyl ] - [ 1 , 1 ’ - biphenyl ] - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Its empirical formula is C33H30N4O2 , its molecular weight is 514 . 63 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Telmisartan is a white to slightly yellowish solid .
It is practically insoluble in water and in the pH range of 3 to 9 , sparingly soluble in strong acid ( except insoluble in hydrochloric acid ) , and soluble in strong base .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 74 .
It is slightly soluble in water , and freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Hydrochlorothiazide is chemically described as 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are formulated for oral administration in three combinations of 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 80 mg / 25 mg telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide , respectively .
The tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , sodium hydroxide , meglumine , povidone , sodium stearyl fumarate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate .
As coloring agents , the 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets contain ferric oxide red , and the 80 mg / 25 mg tablets contain ferric oxide yellow .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are hygroscopic and require protection from moisture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Telmisartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Telmisartan has much greater affinity ( > 3 , 000 fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because telmisartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Telmisartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of telmisartan on blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium salt and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is not fully understood .
Pharmacokinetics General Telmisartan Following oral administration , peak concentrations ( Cmax ) of telmisartan are reached in 0 . 5 to 1 hour after dosing .
Food slightly reduces the bioavailability of telmisartan , with a reduction in the area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of about 6 % with the 40 mg tablet and about 20 % after a 160 mg dose .
The absolute bioavailability of telmisartan is dose dependent .
At 40 and 160 mg the bioavailability was 42 % and 58 % , respectively .
The pharmacokinetics of orally administered telmisartan are nonlinear over the dose range 20 to 160 mg , with greater than proportional increases of plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC ) with increasing doses .
Telmisartan shows bi - exponential decay kinetics with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 24 hours .
Trough plasma concentrations of telmisartan with once daily dosing are about 10 to 25 % of peak plasma concentrations .
Telmisartan has an accumulation index in plasma of 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 upon repeated once daily dosing .
Hydrochlorothiazide When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours , the plasma half - life has been observed to vary between 5 . 6 and 14 . 8 hours .
Metabolism and Elimination Telmisartan Following either intravenous or oral administration of 14 C - labeled telmisartan , most of the administered dose ( > 97 % ) was eliminated unchanged in feces via biliary excretion ; only minute amounts were found in the urine ( 0 . 91 % and 0 . 49 % of total radioactivity , respectively ) .
Telmisartan is metabolized by conjugation to form a pharmacologically inactive acylglucuronide ; the glucuronide of the parent compound is the only metabolite that has been identified in human plasma and urine .
After a single dose , the glucuronide represents approximately 11 % of the measured radioactivity in plasma .
The cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are not involved in the metabolism of telmisartan .
Total plasma clearance of telmisartan is > 800 mL / min .
Terminal half - life and total clearance appear to be independent of dose .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated as unchanged drug within 24 hours .
Distribution Telmisartan Telmisartan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( > 99 . 5 % ) , mainly albumin and α1 - acid glycoprotein .
Plasma protein binding is constant over the concentration range achieved with recommended doses .
The volume of distribution for telmisartan is approximately 500 liters , indicating additional tissue binding .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Special Populations Pediatric : Telmisartan pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in patients < 18 years of age .
Geriatric : The pharmacokinetics of telmisartan do not differ between the elderly and those younger than 65 years ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Gender : Plasma concentrations of telmisartan are generally 2 to 3 times higher in females than in males .
In clinical trials , however , no significant increases in blood pressure response or in the incidence of orthostatic hypotension were found in women .
No dosage adjustment is necessary .
Renal Insufficiency : Renal excretion does not contribute to the clearance of telmisartan .
Based on modest experience in patients with mild - to - moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 30 to 80 mL / min , mean clearance approximately 50 mL / min ) , no dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with decreased renal function .
Telmisartan is not removed from blood by hemofiltration ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency : In patients with hepatic insufficiency , plasma concentrations of telmisartan are increased , and absolute bioavailability approaches 100 % ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions : See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions .
Pharmacodynamics Telmisartan In normal volunteers , a dose of telmisartan 80 mg inhibited the pressor response to an intravenous infusion of angiotensin II by about 90 % at peak plasma concentrations with approximately 40 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
Plasma concentration of angiotensin II and plasma renin activity ( PRA ) increased in a dose - dependent manner after single administration of telmisartan to healthy subjects and repeated administration to hypertensive patients .
The once - daily administration of up to 80 mg telmisartan to healthy subjects did not influence plasma aldosterone concentrations .
In multiple dose studies with hypertensive patients , there were no clinically significant changes in electrolytes ( serum potassium or sodium ) , or in metabolic function ( including serum levels of cholesterol , triglycerides , HDL , LDL , glucose , or uric acid ) .
In 30 hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated for 8 weeks with telmisartan 80 mg or telmisartan 80 mg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg , there were no clinically significant changes from baseline in renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , filtration fraction , renovascular resistance , or creatinine clearance .
Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Clinical Trials Telmisartan The antihypertensive effects of telmisartan have been demonstrated in six principal placebo - controlled clinical trials , studying a range of 20 to 160 mg ; one of these examined the antihypertensive effects of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination .
The studies involved a total of 1773 patients with mild to moderate hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 114 mmHg ) , 1031 of whom were treated with telmisartan .
Following once daily administration of telmisartan , the magnitude of blood pressure reduction from baseline after placebo subtraction was approximately ( SBP / DBP ) 6 - 8 / 6 mmHg for 20 mg , 9 - 13 / 6 - 8 mmHg for 40 mg , and 12 - 13 / 7 - 8 mmHg for 80 mg .
Larger doses ( up to 160 mg ) did not appear to cause a further decrease in blood pressure .
Upon initiation of antihypertensive treatment with telmisartan , blood pressure was reduced after the first dose , with a maximal reduction by about 4 weeks .
With cessation of treatment with telmisartan tablets , blood pressure gradually returned to baseline values over a period of several days to one week .
During long - term studies ( without placebo control ) the effect of telmisartan appeared to be maintained for up to at least one year .
The antihypertensive effect of telmisartan is not influenced by patient age , gender , weight or body mass index .
Blood pressure response in black patients ( usually a low - renin population ) is noticeably less than that in Caucasian patients .
This has been true for most , but not all , angiotensin II antagonists and ACE inhibitors .
The onset of antihypertensive activity occurs within 3 hours after administration of a single oral dose .
At doses of 20 , 40 , and 80 mg , the antihypertensive effect of once daily administration of telmisartan is maintained for the full 24 - hour dose interval .
With automated ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and conventional blood pressure measurements , the 24 - hour trough - to - peak ratio for 40 to 80 mg doses of telmisartan was 70 to 100 % for both systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
The incidence of symptomatic orthostasis after the first dose in all controlled trials was low ( 0 . 04 % ) .
There were no changes in the heart rate of patients treated with telmisartan in controlled trials .
Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide In controlled clinical trials with over 2500 patients , 1017 patients were exposed to telmisartan ( 20 to 160 mg ) and concomitant hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 to 25 mg ) .
These trials included one factorial trial with combinations of telmisartan ( 20 , 40 , 80 , 160 mg , or placebo ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 , 12 . 5 , 25 mg and placebo ) .
Four other studies of at least six months duration allowed add - on of hydrochlorothiazide for patients who either were not adequately controlled on the randomized monotherapy dose or had not achieved adequate response after completing the up - titration of telmisartan .
The combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in additive placebo - adjusted decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough of 16 - 21 / 9 - 11 mmHg for doses between 40 / 12 . 5 mg and 80 / 25 mg , compared to 9 - 13 / 7 - 8 mmHg for telmisartan 40 mg to 80 mg and 4 / 4 mmHg for hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg alone .
In active controlled studies , the addition of 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to titrated doses of telmisartan in patients who did not achieve or maintain adequate response with telmisartan monotherapy further reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
The antihypertensive effect was independent of age or gender .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in patients treated with the combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in the placebo controlled trial .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or angioedema ) to telmisartan , hydrochlorothiazide , or any other component of this product ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
WARNINGS Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
No teratogenic effects were observed when telmisartan was administered to pregnant rats at oral doses of up to 50 mg / kg / day and to pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 45 mg / kg / day .
In rabbits , embryolethality associated with maternal toxicity ( reduced body weight gain and food consumption ) was observed at 45 mg / kg / day [ about 12 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 80 mg on a mg / m2basis ] .
In rats , maternally toxic ( reduction in body weight gain and food consumption ) telmisartan doses of 15 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2basis ) , administered during late gestation and lactation , were observed to produce adverse effects in neonates , including reduced viability , low birth weight , delayed maturation , decreased weight gain .
Telmisartan has been shown to be present in rat fetuses during late gestation and in rat milk .
The no observed effect doses for developmental toxicity in rats and rabbits , 5 and 15 mg / kg / day , respectively , are about 0 . 64 and 3 . 7 times , on a mg / m2basis , the maximum recommended human dose of telmisartan ( 80 mg / day ) .
Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was administered to pregnant mice and rats during their periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Hypotension in Volume - Depleted Patients Initiation of antihypertensive therapy in patients whose renin - angiotensin system are activated such as patients who are intravascular volume - or sodium - depleted , e . g . , in patients treated vigorously with diuretics , should only be approached cautiously .
These conditions should be corrected prior to administration of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Treatment should be started under close medical supervision ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If hypotension occurs , the patients should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hepatic Impairment : Thiazide diuretics should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Hypersensitivity Reaction : Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus : Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Lithium Interaction : Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Hydrochlorothiazide , Lithium ) .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
PRECAUTIONS Serum Electrolytes Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide In controlled trials using the telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide combination treatment , no patient administered 40 / 12 . 5 mg , 80 / 12 . 5 mg or 80 / 25 mg had a decrease in potassium ≥ 1 . 4 mEq / L , and no patient experienced hyperkalemia .
No discontinuations due to hypokalemia occurred during treatment with the telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide combination .
The absence of significant changes in serum potassium levels may be due to the opposing mechanisms of action of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide on potassium excretion on the kidney .
Hydrochlorothiazide Periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance : hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient experiences excessive vomiting or receives parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , confusion , seizures , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmia and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
In diabetic patients dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the post sympathectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy .
Impaired Hepatic Function Telmisartan As the majority of telmisartan is eliminated by biliary excretion , patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency can be expected to have reduced clearance .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should therefore be used with caution in these patients .
Impaired Renal Function Telmisartan As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , patients with severe congestive heart failure ) , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with telmisartan .
In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen were observed .
There has been no long - term use of telmisartan in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis but an effect similar to that seen with ACE inhibitors should be anticipated .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone System Telmisartan As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) have been reported .
Dual blockade of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , by adding an ACE - inhibitor to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist ) should include close monitoring of renal function .
The ONTARGET trial enrolled 25 , 620 patients > 55 years old with atherosclerotic disease or diabetes with end - organ damage , randomized them to telmisartan only , ramipril only , or the combination , and followed them for a median of 56 months .
Patients receiving the combination of telmisartan and ramipril did not obtain any additional benefit on the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction , stroke and heart failure hospitalization compared to monotherapy , but experienced an increased incidence of clinically important renal dysfunction ( e . g . , acute renal failure ) compared with groups receiving telmisartan alone or ramipril alone .
Co - administration of telmisartan and ramipril increases the exposure to both ramipril and ramiprilat by a factor of about 2 ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Concomitant use of telmisartan and ramipril is not recommended .
Information for Patients Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Potassium Supplements : A patient receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes that contain potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
Drug Interactions Telmisartan Aliskiren : Do not co - administer aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
Digoxin : When telmisartan was co - administered with digoxin , median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration ( 49 % ) and in trough concentration ( 20 % ) were observed .
It is , therefore , recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating , adjusting , and discontinuing telmisartan to avoid possible over - or under - digitalization .
Lithium : Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors .
Cases have also been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists including telmisartan .
Because lithium should not be used with diuretics , the use of lithium with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including telmisartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving telmisartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including telmisartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Ramipril and Ramiprilat : Co - administration of telmisartan 80 mg once daily and ramipril 10 mg once daily to healthy subjects increases steady - state Cmax and AUC of ramipril 2 . 3 and 2 . 1 fold , respectively , and Cmax and AUC of ramiprilat 2 . 4 and 1 . 5 fold , respectively .
In contrast , Cmax and AUC of telmisartan decrease by 31 % and 16 % , respectively .
When co - administering telmisartan and ramipril , the response may be greater because of the possibly additive pharmacodynamic effects of the combined drugs , and also because of the increased exposure to ramipril and ramiprilat in the presence of telmisartan .
Warfarin : Telmisartan administered for 10 days slightly decreased the mean warfarin trough plasma concentration ; this decrease did not result in a change in International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) .
Other Drugs : Co - administration of telmisartan did not result in a clinically significant interaction with acetaminophen , amlodipine , glibenclamide , simvastatin , hydrochlorothiazide or ibuprofen .
Telmisartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and had no effects in vitro on cytochrome P450 enzymes , except for some inhibition of CYP2C19 .
Telmisartan is not expected to interact with drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes ; it is also not expected to interact with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes , except for possible inhibition of the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 .
Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics : Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) : Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs : Additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins : Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH : Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) : Possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) : Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium : Should not generally be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs : In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Telmisartan There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when telmisartan was administered in the diet to mice and rats for up to 2 years .
The highest doses administered to mice ( 1000 mg / kg / day ) and rats ( 100 mg / kg / day ) are , on a mg / m2 basis , about 59 and 13 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of telmisartan .
These same doses have been shown to provide average systemic exposures to telmisartan > 100 times and > 25 times , respectively , the systemic exposure in humans receiving the MRHD ( 80 mg / day ) .
Genotoxicity assays did not reveal any telmisartan - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
These assays included bacterial mutagenicity tests with Salmonella and E . coli ( Ames ) , a gene mutation test with Chinese hamster V79 cells , a cytogenetic test with human lymphocytes , and a mouse micronucleus test .
No drug - related effects on the reproductive performance of male and female rats were noted at 100 mg / kg / day ( the highest dose administered ) , about 13 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the MRHD of telmisartan .
This dose in the rat resulted in an average systemic exposure ( telmisartan AUC as determined on day 6 of pregnancy ) at least 50 times the average systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD ( 80 mg / day ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) assay , in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assay , and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether telmisartan is excreted in human milk , but telmisartan was shown to be present in the milk of lactating rats .
Thiazides appear in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials ( n = 1017 ) , approximately 20 % of patients treated with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide were 65 years of age or older , and 5 % were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in effectiveness and safety of telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide were observed in these patients compared to younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets has been evaluated for safety in over 1700 patients , including 716 treated for over six months and 420 for over one year .
In clinical trials with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , no unexpected adverse events have been observed .
Adverse experiences have been limited to those that have been previously reported with telmisartan and / or hydrochlorothiazide .
The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo .
Most adverse experiences were mild in intensity and transient in nature and did not require discontinuation of therapy .
Adverse events occurring at an incidence of 2 % or more in patients treated with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than in patients treated with placebo , irrespective of their causal association , are presented in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 Adverse Events Occurring ≥ 2 % of Telmisartan / Hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) Patients * Telm / HCTZ ( N = 414 ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 74 ) ( % ) Telm ( N = 209 ) ( % ) HCTZ ( N = 121 ) ( % ) Body as a whole Fatigue 3 1 3 3 Influenza - like symptoms 2 1 2 3 Central / peripheral nervous system Dizziness 5 1 4 6 Gastrointestinal system Diarrhea 3 0 5 2 Nausea 2 0 1 2 Respiratory system disorder Sinusitis 4 3 3 6 Upper respiratory tract infection 8 7 7 10 * includes all doses of telmisartan ( 20 to 160 mg ) , hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 to 25 mg ) , and combinations thereof The following adverse events were reported at a rate less than 2 % in patients treated with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than in patients treated with placebo : back pain , dyspepsia , vomiting , tachycardia , hypokalemia , bronchitis , pharyngitis , rash , hypotension postural , abdominal pain .
Finally , the following adverse events were reported at a rate of 2 % or greater in patients treated with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide , but were as , or more common in the placebo group : pain , headache , cough , urinary tract infection .
Adverse events occurred at approximately the same rates in men and women , older and younger patients , and black and non - black patients .
In controlled trials ( n = 1017 ) , 0 . 3 % of patients treated with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 40 / 12 . 5 mg , 80 / 12 . 5 mg or 80 / 25 mg discontinued due to orthostatic hypotension , and the incidence of dizziness was 4 % , 7 % , and 1 % respectively .
Telmisartan Other adverse experiences that have been reported with telmisartan , without regard to causality , are listed below : Autonomic Nervous System : impotence , increased sweating , flushing Body as a Whole : allergy , fever , leg pain , malaise , chest pain Cardiovascular : palpitation , dependent edema , angina pectoris , leg edema , abnormal ECG , hypertension , peripheral edema CNS : insomnia , somnolence , migraine , vertigo , paresthesia , involuntary muscle contractions , hypoaesthesia Gastrointestinal : flatulence , constipation , gastritis , dry mouth , hemorrhoids , gastroenteritis , enteritis , gastroesophageal reflux , toothache , non - specific gastrointestinal disorders Metabolic : gout , hypercholesterolemia , diabetes mellitus Musculoskeletal : arthritis , arthralgia , leg cramps , myalgia Psychiatric : anxiety , depression , nervousness Resistance Mechanism : infection , fungal infection , abscess , otitis media Respiratory : asthma , rhinitis , dyspnea , epistaxis Skin : dermatitis , eczema , pruritus Urinary : micturition frequency , cystitis Vascular : cerebrovascular disorder Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , tinnitus , earache A single case of angioedema was reported ( among a total of 3781 patients treated with telmisartan ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body as a whole : weakness Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions Metabolic : hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm Nervous System / Psychiatric : restlessness Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis Skin : erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of telmisartan tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Decisions to include these reactions in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors : ( 1 ) seriousness of the reaction , ( 2 ) frequency of reporting , or ( 3 ) strength of causal connection to telmisartan tablets .
The most frequently spontaneously reported events include : headache , dizziness , asthenia , coughing , nausea , fatigue , weakness , edema , face edema , lower limb edema , angioneurotic edema , urticaria , hypersensitivity , sweating increased , erythema , chest pain , atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure , myocardial infarction , blood pressure increased , hypertension aggravated , hypotension ( including postural hypotension ) , hyperkalemia , syncope , dyspepsia , diarrhea , pain , urinary tract infection , erectile dysfunction , back pain , abdominal pain , muscle cramps ( including leg cramps ) , myalgia , bradycardia , eosinophilia , thrombocytopenia , uric acid increased , abnormal hepatic function / liver disorder , renal impairment including acute renal failure , anemia , increased CPK , anaphylactic reaction , and tendon pain ( including tendonitis , tenosynovitis ) , drug eruption ( toxic skin eruption mostly reported as toxicoderma , rash , and urticaria ) , hypoglycemia ( in diabetic patients ) , and angioedema ( with fatal outcome ) .
Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers , including telmisartan tablets .
Clinical Laboratory Findings In controlled trials , clinically relevant changes in standard laboratory test parameters were rarely associated with administration of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Decreases in hemoglobin ( ≥ 2 g / dL ) and hematocrit ( ≥ 9 % ) were observed in 1 . 2 % and 0 . 6 % of telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide patients , respectively , in controlled trials .
Changes in hemoglobin and hematocrit were not considered clinically significant and there were no discontinuations due to anemia .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) : Increases in BUN ( ≥ 11 . 2 mg / dL ) and serum creatinine ( ≥ 0 . 5 mg / dL ) were observed in 2 . 8 % and 1 . 4 % , respectively , of patients with essential hypertension treated with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in controlled trials .
No patient discontinued treatment with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to an increase in BUN or creatinine .
Liver Function Tests : Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and / or serum bilirubin have occurred .
No telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide treated patients discontinued therapy due to abnormal hepatic function .
Serum Electrolytes : See PRECAUTIONS .
OVERDOSAGE Telmisartan Limited data are available with regard to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage with telmisartan would be hypotension , dizziness and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Telmisartan is not removed by hemodialysis .
Hydrochlorothiazide The most common signs and symptoms observed in patients are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dose of telmisartan is 40 mg once a day ; blood pressure response is dose related over the range of 20 to 80 mg .
Patients with depletion of intravascular volume should have the condition corrected or telmisartan tablets should be initiated under close medical supervision ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension in Volume Depleted Patients ) .
Patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency should have treatment started under close medical supervision ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 mg to 50 mg once daily .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of telmisartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with or without food .
Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated components .
Dose Titration by Clinical Effect Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are available as tablets containing either telmisartan 40 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg , or telmisartan 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg or 25 mg .
A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with telmisartan monotherapy 80 mg ( see above ) may be switched to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , telmisartan 80 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg once daily , and finally titrated up to 160 / 25 mg , if necessary .
A patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled by 25 mg once daily of hydrochlorothiazide may be switched to telmisartan 80 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg or telmisartan 80 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg tablets once daily .
The clinical response to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 2 to 4 weeks of therapy , the dose may be titrated up to 160 / 25 mg , if necessary .
Those patients controlled by 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide but who experience hypokalemia with this regimen , may be switched to telmisartan 80 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg tablets once daily , reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response .
Patients with Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be followed as long as the patient ’ s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency should have treatment started under close medical supervision using the 40 / 12 . 5 mg combination ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are available in three strengths as 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 80 mg / 25 mg .
40 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one pink color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L199 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains pink color specks .
NDC 46708 - 209 - 30 bottle of 30 units NDC 46708 - 209 - 91 bottle of 1000 units NDC 46708 - 209 - 10 100 Tablets ( i . e . ; 10 blister cards of 10 tablets each ) 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one pink color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L200 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains pink color specks .
NDC 46708 - 210 - 30 bottle of 30 units NDC 46708 - 210 - 91 bottle of 1000 units NDC 46708 - 210 - 10 100 Tablets ( i . e . ; 10 blister cards of 10 tablets each ) 80 mg / 25 mg : Oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one yellow color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L201 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains yellow color specks .
NDC 46708 - 211 - 30 bottle of 30 units NDC 46708 - 211 - 91 bottle of 1000 units NDC 46708 - 211 - 10 100 Tablets ( i . e . ; 10 blister cards of 10 tablets each ) Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Tablets should not be removed from blisters until immediately before administration .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited ( Formulation Division ) , Village Panelav , P . O . Tajpura , Near Baska , Taluka - Halol , Panchmahal , Gujarat , India .
Revised : 03 / 2014 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 40 mg - 12 . 5 mg Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) Each tablet contains 40 mg of telmisartan USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP 46708 - 209 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 80 mg - 12 . 5 mg Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) Each tablet contains 80 mg of telmisartan USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP 46708 - 210 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 80 mg - 25 mg Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 80 mg / 25 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) Each tablet contains 80 mg of telmisartan USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP 46708 - 211 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
