1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets is an antimalarial indicated for : • • prophylaxis of Plasmodium falciparum malaria , including in areas where chloroquine resistance has been reported ( 1 . 1 ) • • treatment of acute , uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Prevention of Malaria Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tabletsare indicated for the prophylaxis of Plasmodium falciparum malaria , including in areas where chloroquine resistance has been reported .
1 . 2 Treatment of Malaria Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tabletsare indicated for the treatment of acute , uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in regions where the drugs chloroquine , halofantrine , mefloquine , and amodiaquine may have unacceptable failure rates , presumably due to drug resistance .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The daily dose should be taken at the same time each day with food or a milky drink .
In the event of vomiting within 1 hour after dosing , a repeat dose should be taken .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride pediatric tablets may be crushed and mixed with condensed milk just prior to administration to patients who may have difficulty swallowing tablets .
• • Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tabletsshould be taken with food or a milky drink .
Prophylaxis ( 2 . 1 ) : • • Start prophylaxis 1 or 2 days before entering a malaria - endemic area and continue daily during the stay and for 7 days after return .
• • Adults : One adult strength tablet per day .
• • Pediatric Patients : Dosage based on body weight ( see Table 1 ) .
Treatment ( 2 . 2 ) : • • Adults : Four adult strength tablets as a single daily dose for 3 days .
• • Pediatric Patients : Dosage based on body weight ( see Table 2 ) .
Renal Impairment ( 2 . 3 ) : • • Do not use for prophylaxis of malaria in patients with severe renal impairment .
• • Use with caution for treatment of malaria in patients with severe renal impairment .
2 . 1 Prevention of Malaria Start prophylactic treatment withatovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets 1 or 2 days before entering a malaria - endemic area and continue daily during the stay and for 7 days after return .
Adults : One atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet ( adult strength = 250 mg atovaquone / 100 mg proguanil hydrochloride ) per day .
Pediatric Patients : The dosage for prevention of malaria in pediatric patients is based upon body weight ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 .
Dosage for Prevention of Malaria in Pediatric Patients Weight ( kg ) Atovaquone / Proguanil HCl Total Daily Dose Dosage Regimen 11 - 20 62 . 5 mg / 25 mg 1 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablet daily 21 - 30 125 mg / 50 mg 2 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablets as a single daily dose 31 - 40 187 . 5 mg / 75 mg 3 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablets as a single daily dose > 40 250 mg / 100 mg 1 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Tablet ( adult strength ) as a single daily dose 2 . 2 Treatment of Acute Malaria Adults : Fouratovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets ( adult strength ; total daily dose 1 g atovaquone / 400 mg proguanil hydrochloride ) as a single daily dose for 3 consecutive days .
Pediatric Patients : The dosage for treatment of acute malaria in pediatric patients is based upon body weight ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Dosage for Treatment of Acute Malaria in Pediatric Patients Weight ( kg ) Atovaquone / Proguanil HCl Total Daily Dose Dosage Regimen 5 - 8 125 mg / 50 mg 2 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablets daily for 3 consecutive days 9 - 10 187 . 5 mg / 75 mg 3 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablets daily for 3 consecutive days 11 - 20 250 mg / 100 mg 1 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Tablet ( adult strength ) daily for 3 consecutive days 21 - 30 500 mg / 200 mg 2 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Tablets ( adult strength ) as a single daily dose for 3 consecutive days 31 - 40 750 mg / 300 mg 3 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Tablets ( adult strength ) as a single daily dose for 3 consecutive days > 40 1 g / 400 mg 4 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Tablets ( adult strength ) as a single daily dose for 3 consecutive days 2 . 3 Renal Impairment Do not useatovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets for malaria prophylaxis in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) [ See Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
Use with caution for the treatment of malaria in patients with severe renal impairment , only if the benefits of the 3 day treatment regimen outweigh the potential risks associated with increased drug exposure .
No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild ( creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL / min ) or moderate ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ) renal impairment .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet ( adult strength ) contains 250 mg atovaquone USP and 100 mg proguanil hydrochloride USP .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets are pinkish brown to brown colored , circular , biconvex beveled edge , film - coated tablets with ‘ 404 ’ debossed on one side and ‘ G ’ debossed on the other side .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride pediatric tablets , containing 62 . 5 mg atovaquone USP and 25 mg proguanil hydrochloride USP , are pinkish brown to brown colored , circular , biconvex beveled edged , film coated tablets with ‘ 70 ’ debossed on one side and ‘ G ’ debossed on the other side .
• • Tablets ( adult strength ) : 250 mg atovaquone and 100 mg proguanil hydrochloride .
( 3 ) • • Pediatric Tablets : 62 . 5 mg atovaquone and 25 mg proguanil hydrochloride .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Known serious hypersensitivity reactions to atovaquone or proguanil hydrochloride or any component of the formulation .
( 4 . 1 ) • • Prophylaxis of P . falciparum malaria in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , erythema multiforme or Stevens - Johnson syndrome , angioedema , vasculitis ) to atovaquone or proguanil hydrochloride or any component of the formulation .
4 . 2 Severe Renal Impairment Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is contraindicated for prophylaxis of P . falciparum malaria in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) because of pancytopenia in patients with severe renal impairment treated with proguanil [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Atovaquone absorption may be reduced in patients with diarrhea or vomiting .
If used in patients who are vomiting , parasitemia should be closely monitored and the use of an antiemetic considered .
In patients with severe or persistent diarrhea or vomiting , alternative antimalarial therapy may be required .
( 5 . 1 ) • • In mixed P . falciparum and Plasmodium vivax infection , P . vivax relapse occurred commonly when patients were treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloridealone .
( 5 . 2 ) • • In the event of recrudescent P . falciparum infections after treatment or prophylaxis failure , patients should be treated with a different blood schizonticide .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Elevated liver laboratory tests and cases of hepatitis and hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation have been reported with prophylactic use .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloridehas not been evaluated for the treatment of cerebral malaria or other severe manifestations of complicated malaria .
Patients with severe malaria are not candidates for oral therapy .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Vomiting and Diarrhea Absorption of atovaquone may be reduced in patients with diarrhea or vomiting .
If atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is used in patients who are vomiting , parasitemia should be closely monitored and the use of an antiemetic considered .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) . ]
Vomiting occurred in up to 19 % of pediatric patients given treatment doses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
In the controlled clinical trials , 15 . 3 % of adults received an antiemetic when they received atovaquone / proguanil and 98 . 3 % of these patients were successfully treated .
In patients with severe or persistent diarrhea or vomiting , alternative antimalarial therapy may be required .
5 . 2 Relapse of Infection In mixed P . falciparum and Plasmodium vivax infections , P . vivax parasite relapse occurred commonly when patients were treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride alone .
In the event of recrudescent P . falciparum infections after treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or failure of chemoprophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , patients should be treated with a different blood schizonticide .
5 . 3 Hepatotoxicity Elevated liver laboratory tests and cases of hepatitis and hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation have been reported with prophylactic use of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
5 . 4 Severe or Complicated Malaria Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride has not been evaluated for the treatment of cerebral malaria or other severe manifestations of complicated malaria , including hyperparasitemia , pulmonary edema , or renal failure .
Patients with severe malaria are not candidates for oral therapy 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • Prophylaxis : common adverse reactions ( ≥ 4 % ) in adults were diarrhea , dreams , oral ulcers , and headache ; these events occurred in a similar or lower proportion of subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloridethan an active comparator .
Common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in pediatric patients included abdominal pain , headache , cough , and vomiting .
( 6 . 1 ) • • Treatment : common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in adolescents and adults were abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , headache , diarrhea , asthenia , anorexia , and dizziness .
Common adverse reactions ( ≥ 6 % ) in pediatric patients included vomiting , pruritus , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA at 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Because the tablets contain atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , the type and severity of adverse reactions associated with each of the compounds may be expected .
The lower prophylactic doses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were better tolerated than the higher treatment doses .
Prophylaxis of P . falciparum Malaria : In 3 clinical trials ( 2 of which were placebo - controlled ) 381 adults ( mean age 31 years ) received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the prophylaxis of malaria ; the majority of adults were black ( 90 % ) and 79 % were male .
In a clinical trial for the prophylaxis of malaria , 125 pediatric patients ( mean age 9 years ) received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ; all subjects were black and 52 % were male .
Adverse experiences reported in adults and pediatric patients , considered attributable to therapy , occurred in similar proportions of subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or placebo in all studies .
Prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was discontinued prematurely due to a treatment - related adverse experience in 3 of 381 ( 0 . 8 % ) adults and 0 of 125 pediatric patients .
In a placebo - controlled study of malaria prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride involving 330 pediatric patients ( aged 4 to 14 years ) in Gabon , a malaria - endemic area , the safety profile of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was consistent with that observed in the earlier prophylactic studies in adults and pediatric patients .
The most common treatment - emergent adverse events with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were abdominal pain ( 13 % ) , headache ( 13 % ) , and cough ( 10 % ) .
Abdominal pain ( 13 % vs . 8 % ) and vomiting ( 5 % vs . 3 % ) were reported more often with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride than with placebo .
No patient withdrew from the study due to an adverse experience with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
No routine laboratory data were obtained during this study .
Non - immune travelers visiting a malaria - endemic area received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( n = 1 , 004 ) for prophylaxis of malaria in 2 active - controlled clinical trials .
In one study ( n = 493 ) , the mean age of subjects was 33 years and 53 % were male ; 90 % of subjects were white , 6 % of subjects were black and the remaining were of other racial / ethnic groups .
In the other study ( n = 511 ) , the mean age of subjects was 36 years and 51 % were female ; the majority of subjects ( 97 % ) were white .
Adverse experiences occurred in a similar or lower proportion of subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets than an active comparator ( Table 3 ) .
Fewer neuropsychiatric adverse experiences occurred in subjects who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride than mefloquine .
Fewer gastrointestinal adverse experiences occurred in subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets than chloroquine / proguanil .
Compared with active comparator drugs , subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets had fewer adverse experiences overall that were attributed to prophylactic therapy ( Table 3 ) .
Prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was discontinued prematurely due to a treatment - related adverse experience in 7 of 1 , 004 travelers .
Table 3 .
Adverse Experiences in Active - Controlled Clinical Trials of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of P . falciparum Malaria Percent of Subjects With Adverse Experiencesa ( Percent of Subjects With Adverse Experiences Attributable to Therapy ) Study 1 Study 2 Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride n = 493 ( 28 days ) b Mefloquine n = 483 ( 53 days ) b Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride n = 511 ( 26 days ) b Chloroquine plus Proguanil n = 511 ( 49 days ) b Diarrhea 38 ( 8 ) 36 ( 7 ) 34 ( 5 ) 39 ( 7 ) Nausea 14 ( 3 ) 20 ( 8 ) 11 ( 2 ) 18 ( 7 ) Abdominal pain 17 ( 5 ) 16 ( 5 ) 14 ( 3 ) 22 ( 6 ) Headache 12 ( 4 ) 17 ( 7 ) 12 ( 4 ) 14 ( 4 ) Dreams 7 ( 7 ) 16 ( 14 ) 6 ( 4 ) 7 ( 3 ) Insomnia 5 ( 3 ) 16 ( 13 ) 4 ( 2 ) 5 ( 2 ) Fever 9 ( < 1 ) 11 ( 1 ) 8 ( < 1 ) 8 ( < 1 ) Dizziness 5 ( 2 ) 14 ( 9 ) 7 ( 3 ) 8 ( 4 ) Vomiting 8 ( 1 ) 10 ( 2 ) 8 ( 0 ) 14 ( 2 ) Oral ulcers 9 ( 6 ) 6 ( 4 ) 5 ( 4 ) 7 ( 5 ) Pruritus 4 ( 2 ) 5 ( 2 ) 3 ( 1 ) 2 ( < 1 ) Visual difficulties 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) 3 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) Depression < 1 ( < 1 ) 5 ( 4 ) < 1 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Anxiety 1 ( < 1 ) 5 ( 4 ) < 1 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Any adverse experience 64 ( 30 ) 69 ( 42 ) 58 ( 22 ) 66 ( 28 ) Any neuropsychiatric event 20 ( 14 ) 37 ( 29 ) 16 ( 10 ) 20 ( 10 ) Any GI event 49 ( 16 ) 50 ( 19 ) 43 ( 12 ) 54 ( 20 ) a Adverse experiences that started while receiving active study drug .
b Mean duration of dosing based on recommended dosing regimens .
In a third active - controlled study , atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( n = 110 ) was compared with chloroquine / proguanil ( n = 111 ) for the prophylaxis of malaria in 221 non - immune pediatric patients ( 2 to 17 years of age ) .
The mean duration of exposure was 23 days for atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , 46 days for chloroquine , and 43 days for proguanil , reflecting the different recommended dosage regimens for these products .
Fewer patients treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride reported abdominal pain ( 2 % vs . 7 % ) or nausea ( < 1 % vs . 7 % ) than children who received chloroquine / proguanil .
Oral ulceration ( 2 % vs . 2 % ) , vivid dreams ( 2 % vs . < 1 % ) , and blurred vision ( 0 % vs . 2 % ) occurred in similar proportions of patients receiving either atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or chloroquine / proguanil , respectively .
Two patients discontinued prophylaxis with chloroquine / proguanil due to adverse events , while none of those receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride discontinued due to adverse events .
Treatment of Acute , Uncomplicated P . falciparum Malaria : In 7 controlled trials , 436 adolescents and adults received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for treatment of acute , uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria .
The range of mean ages of subjects was 26 to 29 years ; 79 % of subjects were male .
In these studies , 48 % of subjects were classified as other racial / ethnic groups , primarily Asian ; 42 % of subjects were black and the remaining subjects were white .
Attributable adverse experiences that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients were abdominal pain ( 17 % ) , nausea ( 12 % ) , vomiting ( 12 % ) , headache ( 10 % ) , diarrhea ( 8 % ) , asthenia ( 8 % ) , anorexia ( 5 % ) , and dizziness ( 5 % ) .
Treatment was discontinued prematurely due to an adverse experience in 4 of 436 ( 0 . 9 % ) adolescents and adults treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
In 2 controlled trials , 116 pediatric patients ( weighing 11 to 40 kg ) ( mean age 7 years ) received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the treatment of malaria .
The majority of subjects were black ( 72 % ) ; 28 % were of other racial / ethnic groups , primarily Asian .
Attributable adverse experiences that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients were vomiting ( 10 % ) and pruritus ( 6 % ) .
Vomiting occurred in 43 of 319 ( 13 % ) pediatric patients who did not have symptomatic malaria but were given treatment doses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for 3 days in a clinical trial .
The design of this clinical trial required that any patient who vomited be withdrawn from the trial .
Among pediatric patients with symptomatic malaria treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , treatment was discontinued prematurely due to an adverse experience in 1 of 116 ( 0 . 9 % ) .
In a study of 100 pediatric patients ( 5 to < 11 kg body weight ) who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the treatment of uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria , only diarrhea ( 6 % ) occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients as an adverse experience attributable to atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
In 3 patients ( 3 % ) , treatment was discontinued prematurely due to an adverse experience .
Abnormalities in laboratory tests reported in clinical trials were limited to elevations of transaminases in malaria patients being treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
The frequency of these abnormalities varied substantially across trials of treatment and were not observed in the randomized portions of the prophylaxis trials .
One active - controlled trial evaluated the treatment of malaria in Thai adults ( n = 182 ) ; the mean age of subjects was 26 years ( range 15 to 63 years ) ; 80 % of subjects were male .
Early elevations of ALT and AST occurred more frequently in patients treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( n = 91 ) compared to patients treated with an active control , mefloquine ( n = 91 ) .
On Day 7 , rates of elevated ALT and AST with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and mefloquine ( for patients who had normal baseline levels of these clinical laboratory parameters ) were ALT 26 . 7 % vs . 15 . 6 % ; AST 16 . 9 % vs . 8 . 6 % , respectively .
By Day 14 of this 28 - day study , the frequency of transaminase elevations equalized across the 2 groups 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during postmarketing use of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Neutropenia and anemia .
Pancytopenia in patients with severe renal impairment treated with proguanil [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
Immune System Disorders : Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and urticaria , and vasculitis .
Nervous System Disorders : Seizures and psychotic events ( such as hallucinations ) ; however , a causal relationship has not been established .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Stomatitis .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : Elevated liver laboratory tests , hepatitis , cholestasis ; hepatic failure requiring transplant has been reported .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Photosensitivity , rash , erythema multiforme , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Administration with rifampin or rifabutin is known to reduce atovaquone concentrations ; concomitant use with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochlorideis not recommended .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Proguanil may potentiate anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other coumarinbased anticoagulants .
Caution advised when initiating or withdrawing atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloridein patients on anticoagulants ; coagulation tests should be closely monitored .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Tetracycline may reduce atovaquone concentrations ; parasitemia should be closely monitored .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Rifampin / Rifabutin Concomitant administration of rifampin or rifabutin is known to reduce atovaquone concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The concomitant administration of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and rifampin or rifabutin is not recommended .
7 . 2 Anticoagulants Proguanil may potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other coumarin - based anticoagulants .
The mechanism of this potential drug interaction has not been established .
Caution is advised when initiating or withdrawing malaria prophylaxis or treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in patients on continuous treatment with coumarin - based anticoagulants .
When these products are administered concomitantly , coagulation tests should be closely monitored .
7 . 3 Tetracycline Concomitant treatment with tetracycline has been associated with a reduction in plasma concentrations of atovaquone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Parasitemia should be closely monitored in patients receiving tetracycline .
7 . 4 Metoclopramide While antiemetics may be indicated for patients receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , metoclopramide may reduce the bioavailability of atovaquone and should be used only if other antiemetics are not available [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Indinavir Concomitant administration of atovaquone and indinavir did not result in any change in the steady - state AUC and Cmax of indinavir but resulted in a decrease in the Ctrough of indinavir [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing atovaquone with indinavir due to the decrease in trough concentrations of indinavir .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Caution should be exercised when administered to a nursing woman as proguanil is excreted into human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) • • Renal impairment : contraindicated for prophylaxis of P . falciparum malaria in patients with severe renal impairment .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Atovaquone : Atovaquone was not teratogenic and did not cause reproductive toxicity in rats at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day corresponding to maternal plasma concentrations up to 7 . 3 times the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria based on AUC .
In rabbits , atovaquone caused adverse fetal effects and maternal toxicity at a dose of 1 , 200 mg / kg / day corresponding to plasma concentrations that were approximately 1 . 3 times the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria based on AUC .
Adverse fetal effects in rabbits , including decreased fetal body lengths and increased early resorptions and post - implantation losses , were observed only in the presence of maternal toxicity .
In a pre - and post - natal study in rats , atovaquone did not produce adverse effects in offspring at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day corresponding to AUC exposures of approximately 7 . 3 times the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria .
Proguanil : A pre - and post - natal study in Sprague - Dawley rats revealed no adverse effects at doses up to 16 mg / kg / day of proguanil hydrochloride ( up to 0 . 04 - times the average human exposure based on AUC ) .
Pre - and post - natal studies of proguanil in animals at exposures similar to or greater than those observed in humans have not been conducted .
Atovaquone and Proguanil : The combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was not teratogenic in pregnant rats at atovaquone : proguanil hydrochloride ( 50 : 20 mg / kg / day ) corresponding to plasma concentrations up to 1 . 7 and 0 . 1 times , respectively , the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria based on AUC .
In pregnant rabbits , the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was not teratogenic or embryotoxic to rabbit fetuses at atovaquone : proguanil hydrochloride ( 100 : 40 mg / kg / day ) corresponding to plasma concentrations of approximately 0 . 3 and 0 . 5 times , respectively , the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria based on AUC .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of atovaquone and / or proguanil hydrochloride in pregnant women .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Falciparum malaria carries a higher risk of morbidity and mortality in pregnant women than in the general population .
Maternal death and fetal loss are both known complications of falciparum malaria in pregnancy .
In pregnant women who must travel to malaria - endemic areas , personal protection against mosquito bites should always be employed in addition to antimalarials .
[ See Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
The proguanil component of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride acts by inhibiting the parasitic dihydrofolate reductase [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
However , there are no clinical data indicating that folate supplementation diminishes drug efficacy .
For women of childbearing age receiving folate supplements to prevent neural tube birth defects , such supplements may be continued while taking atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether atovaquone is excreted into human milk .
In a rat study , atovaquone concentrations in the milk were 30 % of the concurrent atovaquone concentrations in the maternal plasma .
Proguanil is excreted into human milk in small quantities .
Caution should be exercised when atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Prophylaxis of Malaria : Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients who weigh less than 11 kg .
The efficacy and safety of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride have been established for the prophylaxis of malaria in controlled trials involving pediatric patients weighing 11 kg or more [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Treatment of Malaria : Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients who weigh less than 5 kg .
The efficacy and safety of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the treatment of malaria have been established in controlled trials involving pediatric patients weighing 5 kg or more [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , the higher systemic exposure to cycloguanil , and the greater frequency of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Do not use atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for malaria prophylaxis in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
Use with caution for the treatment of malaria in patients with severe renal impairment , only if the benefits of the 3 - day treatment regimen outweigh the potential risks associated with increased drug exposure .
No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild ( creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL / min ) or moderate ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ) renal impairment .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No trials have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no information on overdoses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloridesubstantially higher than the doses recommended for treatment .
There is no known antidote for atovaquone , and it is currently unknown if atovaquone is dialyzable .
Overdoses up to 31 , 500 mg of atovaquone have been reported .
In one such patient who also took an unspecified dose of dapsone , methemoglobinemia occurred .
Rash has also been reported after overdose .
Overdoses of proguanil hydrochloride as large as 1 , 500 mg have been followed by complete recovery , and doses as high as 700 mg twice daily have been taken for over 2 weeks without serious toxicity .
Adverse experiences occasionally associated with proguanil hydrochloride doses of 100 to 200 mg / day , such as epigastric discomfort and vomiting would be likely to occur with overdose .
There are also reports of reversible hair loss and scaling of the skin on the palms and / or soles , reversible aphthous ulceration , and hematologic side effects .
11 DESCRIPTION Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets ( adult strength ) and Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablets , for oral administration , are a fixed - dose combination of the antimalarial agents atovaquone USP and proguanil hydrochloride USP .
The chemical name of atovaquone USP is trans - 2 - [ 4 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) cyclohexyl ] - 3 - hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthalenedione .
Atovaquone USP is a yellow crystalline solid that is freely soluble in N - methyl - 2 - pyrrolidone and in tetrahydrofuran ; soluble in chloroform ; sparingly soluble in acetone and dimethyl sulfoxide ; slightly soluble in octanol , ethyl acetate , polyethylene glycol 200 ; very slightly soluble in 0 . 1 N sodium hydroxide ; insoluble in water .
It has a molecular weight of 366 . 84 and the molecular formula C22H19ClO3 .
The compound has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of proguanil hydrochloride USP is 1 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - 5 - isopropyl - biguanide hydrochloride .
Proguanil hydrochloride USP is a white crystalline powder slightly soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , practically insoluble in methylene chloride .
It has a molecular weight of 290 . 22 and the molecular formula C11H16ClN5 • HCl .
The compound has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet contains 250 mg of atovaquone USP and 100 mg of proguanil hydrochloride USP and each atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablet contains 62 . 5 mg of atovaquone USP and 25 mg of proguanil hydrochloride USP .
The inactive ingredients in the tablet are colloidal silicon dioxide , ferric oxide red , hypromellose 2910 , low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , poloxamer 188 , polyethylene glycol 400 , polyethylene glycol 8000 , povidone K30 , sodium starch glycolate and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , interfere with 2 different pathways involved in the biosynthesis of pyrimidines required for nucleic acid replication .
Atovaquone is a selective inhibitor of parasite mitochondrial electron transport .
Proguanil hydrochloride primarily exerts its effect by means of the metabolite cycloguanil , a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor .
Inhibition of dihydrofolate reductase in the malaria parasite disrupts deoxythymidylate synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No trials of the pharmacodynamics of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride have been conducted .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Atovaquone is a highly lipophilic compound with low aqueous solubility .
The bioavailability of atovaquone shows considerable inter - individual variability .
Dietary fat taken with atovaquone increases the rate and extent of absorption , increasing AUC 2 to 3 times and Cmax 5 times over fasting .
The absolute bioavailability of the tablet formulation of atovaquone when taken with food is 23 % .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets should be taken with food or a milky drink .
Distribution : Atovaquone is highly protein bound ( > 99 % ) over the concentration range of 1 to 90 mcg / mL .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that the apparent volume of distribution of atovaquone ( V / F ) in adult and pediatric patients after oral administration is approximately 8 . 8 L / kg .
Proguanil is 75 % protein bound .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that the apparent V / F of proguanil in adult and pediatric patients > 15 years of age with body weights from 31 to 110 kg ranged from 1 , 617 to 2 , 502 L .
In pediatric patients ≤ 15 years of age with body weights from 11 to 56 kg , the V / F of proguanil ranged from 462 to 966 L .
In human plasma , the binding of atovaquone and proguanil was unaffected by the presence of the other .
Metabolism : In a study where 14 C - labeled atovaquone was administered to healthy volunteers , greater than 94 % of the dose was recovered as unchanged atovaquone in the feces over 21 days .
There was little or no excretion of atovaquone in the urine ( less than 0 . 6 % ) .
There is indirect evidence that atovaquone may undergo limited metabolism ; however , a specific metabolite has not been identified .
Between 40 % to 60 % of proguanil is excreted by the kidneys .
Proguanil is metabolized to cycloguanil ( primarily via CYP2C19 ) and 4 - chlorophenylbiguanide .
The main routes of elimination are hepatic biotransformation and renal excretion .
Elimination : The elimination half - life of atovaquone is about 2 to 3 days in adult patients .
The elimination half - life of proguanil is 12 to 21 hours in both adult patients and pediatric patients , but may be longer in individuals who are slow metabolizers .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis in adult and pediatric patients showed that the apparent clearance ( CL / F ) of both atovaquone and proguanil are related to the body weight .
The values CL / F for both atovaquone and proguanil in subjects with body weight ≥ 11 kg are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 .
Apparent Clearance for Atovaquone and Proguanil in Patients as a Function of Body Weight Atovaquone Proguanil Body Weight N CL / F ( L / hr ) Mean ± SDa ( range ) N CL / F ( L / hr ) Mean ± SDa ( range ) 11 - 20 kg 159 1 . 34 ± 0 . 63 ( 0 . 52 - 4 . 26 ) 146 29 . 5 ± 6 . 5 ( 10 . 3 - 48 . 3 ) 21 - 30 kg 117 1 . 87 ± 0 . 81 ( 0 . 52 - 5 . 38 ) 113 40 . 0 ± 7 . 5 ( 15 . 9 - 62 . 7 ) 31 - 40 kg 95 2 . 76 ± 2 . 07 ( 0 . 97 - 12 . 5 ) 91 49 . 5 ± 8 . 30 ( 25 . 8 - 71 . 5 ) > 40 kg 368 6 . 61 ± 3 . 92 ( 1 . 32 - 20 . 3 ) 282 67 . 9 ± 19 . 9 ( 14 . 0 - 145 ) a SD = standard deviation .
The pharmacokinetics of atovaquone and proguanil in patients with body weight below 11 kg have not been adequately characterized .
Pediatrics : The pharmacokinetics of proguanil and cycloguanil are similar in adult patients and pediatric patients .
However , the elimination half - life of atovaquone is shorter in pediatric patients ( 1 to 2 days ) than in adult patients ( 2 to 3 days ) .
In clinical trials , plasma trough concentrations of atovaquone and proguanil in pediatric patients weighing 5 to 40 kg were within the range observed in adults after dosing by body weight .
Geriatrics : In a single - dose study , the pharmacokinetics of atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil were compared in 13 elderly subjects ( age 65 to 79 years ) to 13 younger subjects ( age 30 to 45 years ) .
In the elderly subjects , the extent of systemic exposure ( AUC ) of cycloguanil was increased ( point estimate = 2 . 36 , 90 % CI = 1 . 70 , 3 . 28 ) .
Tmax was longer in elderly subjects ( median 8 hours ) compared with younger subjects ( median 4 hours ) and average elimination half - life was longer in elderly subjects ( mean 14 . 9 hours ) compared with younger subjects ( mean 8 . 3 hours ) .
Renal Impairment : In patients with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL / min ) , oral clearance and / or AUC data for atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil are within the range of values observed in patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance > 80 mL / min ) .
In patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ) , mean oral clearance for proguanil was reduced by approximately 35 % compared with patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance > 80 mL / min ) and the oral clearance of atovaquone was comparable between patients with normal renal function and mild renal impairment .
No data exist on the use of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for long - term prophylaxis ( over 2 months ) in individuals with moderate renal failure .
In patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , atovaquone Cmax and AUC are reduced but the elimination half - lives for proguanil and cycloguanil are prolonged , with corresponding increases in AUC , resulting in the potential of drug accumulation and toxicity with repeated dosing [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : In a single - dose study , the pharmacokinetics of atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil were compared in 13 subjects with hepatic impairment ( 9 mild , 4 moderate , as indicated by the Child - Pugh method ) to 13 subjects with normal hepatic function .
In subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment as compared to healthy subjects , there were no marked differences ( < 50 % ) in the rate or extent of systemic exposure of atovaquone .
However , in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment , the elimination half - life of atovaquone was increased ( point estimate = 1 . 28 , 90 % CI = 1 . 00 to 1 . 63 ) .
Proguanil AUC , Cmax , and its elimination half - life increased in subjects with mild hepatic impairment when compared to healthy subjects ( Table 5 ) .
Also , the proguanil AUC and its elimination half - life increased in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment when compared to healthy subjects .
Consistent with the increase in proguanil AUC , there were marked decreases in the systemic exposure of cycloguanil ( Cmax and AUC ) and an increase in its elimination half - life in subjects with mild hepatic impairment when compared to healthy volunteers ( Table 5 ) .
There were few measurable cycloguanil concentrations in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil after administration of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Table 5 .
Point Estimates ( 90 % CI ) for Proguanil and Cycloguanil Parameters in Subjects With Mild and Moderate Hepatic Impairment Compared to Healthy Volunteers Parameter Comparison Proguanil Cycloguanil AUC ( 0 - inf ) a mild : healthy 1 . 96 ( 1 . 51 , 2 . 54 ) 0 . 32 ( 0 . 22 , 0 . 45 ) Cmaxa mild : healthy 1 . 41 ( 1 . 16 , 1 . 71 ) 0 . 35 ( 0 . 24 , 0 . 50 ) t1 / 2 b mild : healthy 1 . 21 ( 0 . 92 , 1 . 60 ) 0 . 86 ( 0 . 49 , 1 . 48 ) AUC ( 0 - inf ) a moderate : healthy 1 . 64 ( 1 . 14 , 2 . 34 ) ND Cmaxa moderate : healthy 0 . 97 ( 0 . 69 , 1 . 36 ) ND t1 / 2 b moderate : healthy 1 . 46 ( 1 . 05 , 2 . 05 ) ND ND = not determined due to lack of quantifiable data .
a Ratio of geometric means .
b Mean difference .
Drug Interactions : There are no pharmacokinetic interactions between atovaquone and proguanil at the recommended dose .
Atovaquone is highly protein bound ( > 99 % ) but does not displace other highly protein - bound drugs in vitro .
Proguanil is metabolized primarily by CYP2C19 .
Potential pharmacokinetic interactions between proguanil or cycloguanil and other drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates or inhibitors are unknown .
Rifampin / Rifabutin : Concomitant administration of rifampin or rifabutin is known to reduce atovaquone concentrations by approximately 50 % and 34 % , respectively .
The mechanisms of these interactions are unknown .
Tetracyline : Concomitant treatment with tetracycline has been associated with approximately a 40 % reduction in plasma concentrations of atovaquone .
Metoclopramide : Concomitant treatment with metoclopramide has been associated with decreased bioavailability of atovaquone .
Indinavir : Concomitant administration of atovaquone ( 750 mg BID with food for 14 days ) and indinavir ( 800 mg TID without food for 14 days ) did not result in any change in the steady - state AUC and Cmax of indinavir but resulted in a decrease in the Ctrough of indinavir ( 23 % decrease [ 90 % CI = 8 % , 35 % ] ) .
12 . 4 Microbiology Activity In Vitro and In Vivo : Atovaquone and cycloguanil ( an active metabolite of proguanil ) are active against the erythrocytic and exoerythrocytic stages of Plasmodium spp .
Enhanced efficacy of the combination compared to either atovaquone or proguanil hydrochloride alone was demonstrated in clinical trials in both immune and non - immune patients [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Resistance : Strains of P . falciparum with decreased susceptibility to atovaquone or proguanil / cycloguanil alone can be selected in vitro or in vivo .
The combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride may not be effective for treatment of recrudescent malaria that develops after prior therapy with the combination .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Genotoxicity studies have not been performed with atovaquone in combination with proguanil .
Effects of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride on male and female reproductive performance are unknown .
Atovaquone : A 24 - month carcinogenicity study in CD rats was negative for neoplasms at doses up to 500 mg / kg / day corresponding to approximately 54 times the average steady - state plasma concentrations in humans during prophylaxis of malaria .
In CD - 1 mice , a 24 - month study showed treatment - related increases in incidence of hepatocellular adenoma and hepatocellular carcinoma at all doses tested ( 50 , 100 , and 200 mg / kg / day ) which correlated with at least 15 times the average steady - state plasma concentrations in humans during prophylaxis of malaria .
Atovaquone was negative with or without metabolic activation in the Ames Salmonella mutagenicity assay , the Mouse Lymphoma mutagenesis assay , and the Cultured Human Lymphocyte cytogenetic assay .
No evidence of genotoxicity was observed in the in vivo Mouse Micronucleus assay .
Atovaquone did not impair fertility in male and female rats at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day corresponding to plasma exposures of approximately 7 . 3 times the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria based on AUC .
Proguanil : No evidence of a carcinogenic effect was observed in 24 - month studies conducted in CD - 1 mice at doses up to 16 mg / kg / day corresponding to 1 . 5 times the average human plasma exposure during prophylaxis of malaria based on AUC , and in Wistar Hannover rats at doses up 20 mg / kg / day corresponding to 1 . 1 times the average human plasma exposure during prophylaxis of malaria based on AUC .
Proguanil was negative with or without metabolic activation in the Ames Salmonella mutagenicity assay and the Mouse Lymphoma mutagenesis assay .
No evidence of genotoxicity was observed in the in vivo Mouse Micronucleus assay .
Cycloguanil , the active metabolite of proguanil , was also negative in the Ames test , but was positive in the Mouse Lymphoma assay and the Mouse Micronucleus assay .
These positive effects with cycloguanil , a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor , were significantly reduced or abolished with folinic acid supplementation .
A fertility study in Sprague - Dawley rats revealed no adverse effects at doses up to 16 mg / kg / day of proguanil hydrochloride ( up to 0 . 04 - times the average human exposure during treatment of malaria based on AUC ) .
Fertility studies of proguanil in animals at exposures similar to or greater than those observed in humans have not been conducted .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Fibrovascular proliferation in the right atrium , pyelonephritis , bone marrow hypocellularity , lymphoid atrophy , and gastritis / enteritis were observed in dogs treated with proguanil hydrochloride for 6 months at a dose of 12 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 . 9 times the recommended daily human dose for malaria prophylaxis on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Bile duct hyperplasia , gall bladder mucosal atrophy , and interstitial pneumonia were observed in dogs treated with proguanil hydrochloride for 6 months at a dose of 4 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 3 times the recommended daily human dose for malaria prophylaxis on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Mucosal hyperplasia of the cecum and renal tubular basophilia were observed in rats treated with proguanil hydrochloride for 6 months at a dose of 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the recommended daily human dose for malaria prophylaxis on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Adverse heart , lung , liver , and gall bladder effects observed in dogs and kidney effects observed in rats were not shown to be reversible .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of P . falciparum Malaria Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was evaluated for prophylaxis of P . falciparum malaria in 5 clinical trials in malaria - endemic areas and in 3 active - controlled trials in non - immune travelers to malaria - endemic areas .
Three placebo - controlled trials of 10 to 12 weeks ’ duration were conducted among residents of malaria - endemic areas in Kenya , Zambia , and Gabon .
The mean age of subjects was 30 ( range 17 - 55 ) , 32 ( range 16 - 64 ) , and 10 ( range 5 - 16 ) years , respectively .
Of a total of 669 randomized patients ( including 264 pediatric patients 5 to 16 years of age ) , 103 were withdrawn for reasons other than falciparum malaria or drug - related adverse events ( 55 % of these were lost to follow - up and 45 % were withdrawn for protocol violations ) .
The results are listed in Table 6 .
Table 6 .
Prevention of Parasitemiaa in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of P . falciparum Malaria in Residents of Malaria - Endemic Areas Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride Placebo Total number of patients randomized 326 343 Failed to complete study 57 46 Developed parasitemia ( P . falciparum ) 2 92 a Free of parasitemia during the 10 to 12 - week period of prophylactic therapy .
In another study , 330 Gabonese pediatric patients ( weighing 13 to 40 kg , and aged 4 to 14 years ) who had received successful open - label radical cure treatment with artesunate , were randomized to receive either atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( dosage based on body weight ) or placebo in a double - blind fashion for 12 weeks .
Blood smears were obtained weekly and any time malaria was suspected .
Nineteen of the 165 children given atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and 18 of 165 patients given placebo withdrew from the study for reasons other than parasitemia ( primary reason was lost to follow - up ) .
One out of 150 evaluable patients ( < 1 % ) who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride developed P . falciparum parasitemia while receiving prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride compared with 31 ( 22 % ) of the 144 evaluable placebo recipients .
In a 10 - week study in 175 South African subjects who moved into malaria - endemic areas and were given prophylaxis with 1 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet daily , parasitemia developed in 1 subject who missed several doses of medication .
Since no placebo control was included , the incidence of malaria in this study was not known .
Two active - controlled trials were conducted in non - immune travelers who visited a malaria - endemic area .
The mean duration of travel was 18 days ( range 2 to 38 days ) .
Of a total of 1 , 998 randomized patients who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or controlled drug , 24 discontinued from the study before follow - up evaluation 60 days after leaving the endemic area .
Nine of these were lost to follow - up , 2 withdrew because of an adverse experience , and 13 were discontinued for other reasons .
These trials were not large enough to allow for statements of comparative efficacy .
In addition , the true exposure rate to P . falciparum malaria in both trials is unknown .
The results are listed in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Prevention of Parasitemiaa in Active - Controlled Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of P . falciparum Malaria in Non - Immune Travelers Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Mefloquine Chloroquine plus Proguanil Total number of randomized patients who received study drug 1 , 004 483 511 Failed to complete study 14 6 4 Developed parasitemia ( P . falciparum ) 0 0 3 a Free of parasitemia during the period of prophylactic therapy .
A third randomized , open - label study was conducted which included 221 otherwise healthy pediatric patients ( weighing ≥ 11 kg and 2 to 17 years of age ) who were at risk of contracting malaria by traveling to an endemic area .
The mean duration of travel was 15 days ( range 1 to 30 days ) .
Prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( n = 110 , dosage based on body weight ) began 1 or 2 days before entering the endemic area and lasted until 7 days after leaving the area .
A control group ( n = 111 ) received prophylaxis with chloroquine / proguanil dosed according to WHO guidelines .
No cases of malaria occurred in either group of children .
However , the study was not large enough to allow for statements of comparative efficacy .
In addition , the true exposure rate to P . falciparum malaria in this study is unknown .
Causal Prophylaxis : In separate trials with small numbers of volunteers , atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were independently shown to have causal prophylactic activity directed against liver - stage parasites of P . falciparum .
Six patients given a single dose of atovaquone 250 mg 24 hours prior to malaria challenge were protected from developing malaria , whereas all 4 placebo - treated patients developed malaria .
During the 4 weeks following cessation of prophylaxis in clinical trial participants who remained in malaria - endemic areas and were available for evaluation , malaria developed in 24 of 211 ( 11 . 4 % ) subjects who took placebo and 9 of 328 ( 2 . 7 % ) who took atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
While new infections could not be distinguished from recrudescent infections , all but 1 of the infections in patients treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride occurred more than 15 days after stopping therapy .
The single case occurring on day 8 following cessation of therapy with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride probably represents a failure of prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
The possibility that delayed cases of P . falciparum malaria may occur some time after stopping prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride cannot be ruled out .
Hence , returning travelers developing febrile illnesses should be investigated for malaria .
14 . 2 Treatment of Acute , Uncomplicated P . falciparum Malaria Infections In 3 phase II clinical trials , atovaquone alone , proguanil hydrochloride alone , and the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were evaluated for the treatment of acute , uncomplicated malaria caused by P . falciparum .
Among 156 evaluable patients , the parasitological cure rate ( elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days ) was 59 / 89 ( 66 % ) with atovaquone alone , 1 / 17 ( 6 % ) with proguanil hydrochloride alone , and 50 / 50 ( 100 % ) with the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was evaluated for treatment of acute , uncomplicated malaria caused by P . falciparum in 8 phase III randomized , open - label , controlled clinical trials ( N = 1 , 030 enrolled in both treatment groups ) .
The mean age of subjects was 27 years and 16 % were children ≤ 12 years of age ; 74 % of subjects were male .
Evaluable patients included those whose outcome at 28 days was known .
Among 471 evaluable patients treated with the equivalent of 4 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets once daily for 3 days , 464 had a sensitive response ( elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days ) ( Table 8 ) .
Seven patients had a response of RI resistance ( elimination of parasitemia but with recurrent parasitemia between 7 and 28 days after starting treatment ) .
In these trials , the response to treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was similar to treatment with the comparator drug in 4 trials .
Table 8 .
Parasitological Response in 8 Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Treatment of P . falciparum Malaria Study Site Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride a Comparator Evaluable Patients ( n ) % Sensitive Responseb Drug ( s ) Evaluable Patients ( n ) % Sensitive Responseb Brazil 74 98 . 6 % Quinine and tetracycline 76 100 . 0 % Thailand 79 100 . 0 % Mefloquine 79 86 . 1 % Francec 21 100 . 0 % Halofantrine 18 100 . 0 % Kenyac , d 81 93 . 8 % Halofantrine 83 90 . 4 % Zambia 80 100 . 0 % Pyrimethamine / sulfadoxine ( P / S ) 80 98 . 8 % Gabonc 63 98 . 4 % Amodiaquine 63 81 . 0 % Philippines 54 100 . 0 % Chloroquine ( Cq ) Cq and P / S 23 32 30 . 4 % 87 . 5 % Peru 19 100 . 0 % Chloroquine P / S 13 7 7 . 7 % 100 . 0 % a Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets = 1 , 000 mg atovaquone and 400 mg proguanil hydrochloride ( or equivalent based on body weight for patients weighing ≤ 40 kg ) once daily for 3 days .
b Elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days .
c Patients hospitalized only for acute care .
Follow - up conducted in outpatients .
d Study in pediatric patients 3 to 12 years of age .
When these 8 trials were pooled and 2 additional trials evaulating atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride alone ( without a comparator arm ) were added to the analysis , the overall efficacy ( elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days ) in 521 evaluable patients was 98 . 7 % .
The efficacy of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in the treatment of the erythrocytic phase of nonfalciparum malaria was assessed in a small number of patients .
Of the 23 patients in Thailand infected with P . vivax and treated with atovaquone / proguanil hydrochloride 1 , 000 mg / 400 mg daily for 3 days , parasitemia cleared in 21 ( 91 . 3 % ) at 7 days .
Parasite relapse occurred commonly when P . vivax malaria was treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride alone .
Relapsing malarias including P . vivax and P . ovale require additional treatment to prevent relapse .
The efficacy of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in treating acute uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria in children weighing ≥ 5 and < 11 kg was examined in an open - label , randomized trial conducted in Gabon .
Patients received either atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( 2 or 3 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Pediatric Tablets once daily depending upon body weight ) for 3 days ( n = 100 ) or amodiaquine ( 10 mg / kg / day ) for 3 days ( n = 100 ) .
In this study , the atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were crushed and mixed with condensed milk just prior to administration .
An adequate clinical response ( elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days ) was obtained in 95 % ( 87 / 92 ) of the evaluable pediatric patients who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and in 53 % ( 41 / 78 ) of those evaluable who received amodiaquine .
A response of RI resistance ( elimination of parasitemia but with recurrent parasitemia between 7 and 28 days after starting treatment ) was noted in 3 % and 40 % of the patients , respectively .
Two cases of RIII resistance ( rising parasite count despite therapy ) were reported in the patients receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
There were 4 cases of RIII in the amodiaquine arm .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets , containing 250 mg atovaquone USP and 100 mg proguanil hydrochloride USP , are pinkish brown to brown colored , circular , biconvex beveled edge , film - coated tablets with ‘ 404 ’ debossed on one side and ‘ G ’ debossed on the other side .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets 250 mg / 100 mg NDC 63187 - 879 - 24 bottle of 24 tablets NDC 63187 - 879 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 63187 - 879 - 60 bottle of 60 tablets NDC 63187 - 879 - 90 bottle of 90 tablets Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be instructed : • • to take atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets at the same time each day with food or a milky drink .
• • to take a repeat dose of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride if vomiting occurs within 1 hour after dosing .
• • to take a dose as soon as possible if a dose is missed , then return to their normal dosing schedule .
However , if a dose is skipped , the patient should not double the next dose .
• • that rare serious adverse events such as hepatitis , severe skin reactions , neurological , and hematological events have been reported when atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was used for the prophylaxis or treatment of malaria .
• • to consult a healthcare professional regarding alternative forms of prophylaxis if prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is prematurely discontinued for any reason .
• • that protective clothing , insect repellents , and bednets are important components of malaria prophylaxis .
• • that no chemoprophylactic regimen is 100 % effective ; therefore , patients should seek medical attention for any febrile illness that occurs during or after return from a malaria - endemic area and inform their healthcare professional that they may have been exposed to malaria .
• • that falciparum malaria carries a higher risk of death and serious complications in pregnant women than in the general population .
Pregnant women anticipating travel to malarious areas should discuss the risks and benefits of such travel with their physicians .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma . com / usa May 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 63187 - 879 - 24 Atovaquone and Proguanil Hydrochloride Tablets 250 mg / 100 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
