Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 4 . 0 % Oxybenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 oF .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep away from face to avoid breathing it • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics .
Directions • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Mineral Oil , C12 - 15 Alkyl Lactate , Ethylhexyl Benzoate , Trimethylolpropane Tricaprylate / Tricaprate , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Cetearyl Ethylhexanoate , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Oil , Caprylyl Glycol , Dimethyl Capramide , Retinyl Palmitate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Fragrance .
Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SafeSun , Mon - Fri Principle Display Panel BANANA BOAT protective Dry Oil UVA / UVB PROTECTION CONTINUOUS SPRAY SUNSCREEN 25 BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 25 COCONUT & GRAPE SEED OIL FAST & EVEN COVERAGE WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) SWIM SPLASH SPORT 6 FL .
OZ .
( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
