Active Ingredients Avobenzone 1 . 0 % , Octocrylene 7 . 7 % , Oxybenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When uing this product keep out of eyes .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics Flammable Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Directions • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . , wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Mineral Oil , PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Octyldodecanol , Retinyl Palmitate , Silica , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Propoxyhydroxypropyl Thiosulfate Silica , Fragrance .
Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SAFESUN , Mon - Fri PDP BANANA BOAT SPORT QUIK DRI SCALP SPRAY sunscreen 30 UVA / UVB PROTECTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 LIGHTWEIGHT • NON - GREASY WON ' T RUN INTO EYES WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
