Indications and Usage : Benefits of lowering blood pressure ( 1 ) 12 / 2011 WARNING : USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy , drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus . When pregnancy is detected , Diovan should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality ( 5 . 1 ) WARNING : USE IN PREGNANCY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Diovan as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diovan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) indicated for : • Treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 . 1 ) • Treatment of heart failure ( NYHA class II - IV ) ; Diovan significantly reduced hospitalization for heart failure ( 1 . 2 ) • Reduction of cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Hypertension Diovan ® ( valsartan ) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which valsartan principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials in hypertensive patients demonstrating risk reduction with Diovan .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Diovan may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
1 . 2 Heart Failure Diovan is indicated for the treatment of heart failure ( NYHA class II - IV ) .
In a controlled clinical trial , Diovan significantly reduced hospitalizations for heart failure .
There is no evidence that Diovan provides added benefits when it is used with an adequate dose of an ACE inhibitor .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] 1 . 3 Post - Myocardial Infarction In clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction , Diovan is indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Target Maintenance Dose * Adult Hypertension ( 2 . 1 ) 80 or 160 mg once daily 80 - 320 mg once daily --- Pediatric Hypertension ( 6 - 16 years ) ( 2 . 1 ) 1 . 3 mg / kg once daily ( up to 40 mg total ) 1 . 3 - 2 . 7 mg / kg once daily ( up to 40 - 160 mg total ) --- Heart Failure ( 2 . 2 ) 40 mg twice daily 40 - 160 mg twice daily 160 mg twice daily Post - Myocardial Infarction ( 2 . 3 ) 20 mg twice daily 20 - 160 mg twice daily 160 mg twice daily * as tolerated by patient No initial dosage adjustment is required for elderly patients , for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment , or for patients with mild or moderate liver insufficiency .
Care should be exercised with dosing of Diovan in patients with hepatic or severe renal impairment .
Diovan may be administered with or without food .
In heart failure patients , consideration should be given to reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics .
Following myocardial infarction , consideration should be given to a dosage reduction if symptomatic hypotension or renal dysfunction occurs .
2 . 1 Adult Hypertension The recommended starting dose of Diovan ( valsartan ) is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume - depleted .
Patients requiring greater reductions may be started at the higher dose .
Diovan may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily , administered once a day .
The antihypertensive effect is substantially present within 2 weeks and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks .
If additional antihypertensive effect is required over the starting dose range , the dose may be increased to a maximum of 320 mg or a diuretic may be added .
Addition of a diuretic has a greater effect than dose increases beyond 80 mg .
No initial dosage adjustment is required for elderly patients , for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment , or for patients with mild or moderate liver insufficiency .
Care should be exercised with dosing of Diovan in patients with hepatic or severe renal impairment .
Diovan may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Diovan may be administered with or without food .
2 . 2 Pediatric Hypertension6 - 16 years of age For children who can swallow tablets , the usual recommended starting dose is 1 . 3 mg / kg once daily ( up to 40 mg total ) .
The dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response .
Doses higher than 2 . 7 mg / kg ( up to 160 mg ) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients 6 to 16 years old .
For children who cannot swallow tablets , or children for whom the calculated dosage ( mg / kg ) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of Diovan , the use of a suspension is recommended .
Follow the suspension preparation instructions below ( see Preparation of Suspension ) to administer valsartan as a suspension .
When the suspension is replaced by a tablet , the dose of valsartan may have to be increased .
The exposure to valsartan with the suspension is 1 . 6 times greater than with the tablet .
Diovan is not recommended for treatment of children below the age of 6 years or children of any age with a glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , as no data are available .
Preparation of Suspension ( for 160 mL of a 4 mg / mL suspension ) Add 80 mL of Ora - Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 Diovan 80 mg tablets , and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes .
Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour .
After the standing time , shake the suspension for a minimum of 1 additional minute .
Add 80 mL of Ora - Sweet SF ® * oral sweetening vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension for at least 10 seconds to disperse the ingredients .
The suspension is homogenous and can be stored for either up to 30 days at room temperature ( below 30ºC / 86ºF ) or up to 75 days at refrigerated conditions ( 2 - 8ºC / 35 - 46ºF ) in the glass bottle with a child - resistant screw - cap closure .
Shake the bottle well ( at least 10 seconds ) prior to dispensing the suspension .
* Ora - Sweet SF ® and Ora - Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories , Inc .
2 . 3 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of Diovan is 40 mg twice daily .
Uptitration to 80 mg and 160 mg twice daily should be done to the highest dose , as tolerated by the patient .
Consideration should be given to reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics .
The maximum daily dose administered in clinical trials is 320 mg in divided doses .
2 . 4 Post - Myocardial Infarction Diovan may be initiated as early as 12 hours after a myocardial infarction .
The recommended starting dose of Diovan is 20 mg twice daily .
Patients may be uptitrated within 7 days to 40 mg twice daily , with subsequent titrations to a target maintenance dose of 160 mg twice daily , as tolerated by the patient .
If symptomatic hypotension or renal dysfunction occurs , consideration should be given to a dosage reduction .
Diovan may be given with other standard post - myocardial infarction treatment , including thrombolytics , aspirin , beta - blockers , and statins .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 40 mg are scored yellow ovaloid tablets with beveled edges , imprinted NVR / DO ( Side 1 / Side 2 ) 80 mg are pale red almond - shaped tablets with beveled edges , imprinted NVR / DV 160 mg are grey - orange almond - shaped tablets with beveled edges , imprinted NVR / DX 320 mg are dark grey - violet almond - shaped tablets with beveled edges , imprinted NVR / DXL Tablets ( mg ) : 40 ( scored ) , 80 , 160 , 320 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Avoid fetal or neonatal exposure ( 5 . 1 ) • Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension ( 5 . 2 ) • Use with caution in patients with impaired hepatic ( 5 . 3 ) or renal ( 5 . 4 ) function 5 . 1 Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality Diovan can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Drugs that act on the renin angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality when used in pregnancy .
In several dozen published cases , ACE inhibitor use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy was associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] 5 . 2 Hypotension Excessive hypotension was rarely seen ( 0 . 1 % ) in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with Diovan alone .
In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients receiving high doses of diuretics , symptomatic hypotension may occur .
This condition should be corrected prior to administration of Diovan , or the treatment should start under close medical supervision .
Caution should be observed when initiating therapy in patients with heart failure or post - myocardial infarction patients .
Patients with heart failure or post - myocardial infarction patients given Diovan commonly have some reduction in blood pressure , but discontinuation of therapy because of continuing symptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed .
In controlled trials in heart failure patients , the incidence of hypotension in valsartan - treated patients was 5 . 5 % compared to 1 . 8 % in placebo - treated patients .
In the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial ( VALIANT ) , hypotension in post - myocardial infarction patients led to permanent discontinuation of therapy in 1 . 4 % of valsartan - treated patients and 0 . 8 % of captopril - treated patients .
If excessive hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 3 Impaired Hepatic Function As the majority of valsartan is eliminated in the bile , patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , including patients with biliary obstructive disorders , showed lower valsartan clearance ( higher AUCs ) .
Care should be exercised in administering Diovan to these patients .
5 . 4 Impaired Renal Function In studies of ACE inhibitors in hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen have been reported .
In a 4 - day trial of valsartan in 12 hypertensive patients with unilateral renal artery stenosis , no significant increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen were observed .
There has been no long - term use of Diovan in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , but an effect similar to that seen with ACE inhibitors should be anticipated .
As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
Similar outcomes have been reported with Diovan .
Some patients with heart failure have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen , serum creatinine , and potassium .
These effects are usually minor and transient , and they are more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuation of the diuretic and / or Diovan may be required .
In the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , in which 93 % of patients were on concomitant ACE inhibitors , treatment was discontinued for elevations in creatinine or potassium ( total of 1 . 0 % on valsartan vs . 0 . 2 % on placebo ) .
In the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial ( VALIANT ) , discontinuations due to various types of renal dysfunction occurred in 1 . 1 % of valsartan - treated patients and 0 . 8 % of captopril - treated patients .
Evaluation of patients with heart failure or post - myocardial infarction should always include assessment of renal function .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension : Most common adverse reactions are headache , dizziness , viral infection , fatigue and abdominal pain ( 6 . 1 ) Heart Failure : Most common adverse reactions are dizziness , hypotension , diarrhea , arthralgia , back pain , fatigue and hyperkalemia ( 6 . 1 ) Post - Myocardial Infarction : Most common adverse reactions which caused patients to discontinue therapy are hypotension , cough and increased blood creatinine ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adult Hypertension Diovan ( valsartan ) has been evaluated for safety in more than 4 , 000 patients , including over 400 treated for over 6 months , and more than 160 for over 1 year .
Adverse reactions have generally been mild and transient in nature and have only infrequently required discontinuation of therapy .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions with Diovan was similar to placebo .
The overall frequency of adverse reactions was neither dose - related nor related to gender , age , race , or regimen .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in 2 . 3 % of valsartan patients and 2 . 0 % of placebo patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Diovan were headache and dizziness .
The adverse reactions that occurred in placebo - controlled clinical trials in at least 1 % of patients treated with Diovan and at a higher incidence in valsartan ( n = 2 , 316 ) than placebo ( n = 888 ) patients included viral infection ( 3 % vs . 2 % ) , fatigue ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) , and abdominal pain ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) .
Headache , dizziness , upper respiratory infection , cough , diarrhea , rhinitis , sinusitis , nausea , pharyngitis , edema , and arthralgia occurred at a more than 1 % rate but at about the same incidence in placebo and valsartan patients .
In trials in which valsartan was compared to an ACE inhibitor with or without placebo , the incidence of dry cough was significantly greater in the ACE - inhibitor group ( 7 . 9 % ) than in the groups who received valsartan ( 2 . 6 % ) or placebo ( 1 . 5 % ) .
In a 129 - patient trial limited to patients who had had dry cough when they had previously received ACE inhibitors , the incidences of cough in patients who received valsartan , HCTZ , or lisinopril were 20 % , 19 % , and 69 % respectively ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Dose - related orthostatic effects were seen in less than 1 % of patients .
An increase in the incidence of dizziness was observed in patients treated with Diovan 320 mg ( 8 % ) compared to 10 to 160 mg ( 2 % to 4 % ) .
Diovan has been used concomitantly with hydrochlorothiazide without evidence of clinically important adverse interactions .
Other adverse reactions that occurred in controlled clinical trials of patients treated with Diovan ( > 0 . 2 % of valsartan patients ) are listed below .
It cannot be determined whether these events were causally related to Diovan .
Body as a Whole : Allergic reaction and asthenia Cardiovascular : Palpitations Dermatologic : Pruritus and rash Digestive : Constipation , dry mouth , dyspepsia , and flatulence Musculoskeletal : Back pain , muscle cramps , and myalgia Neurologic and Psychiatric : Anxiety , insomnia , paresthesia , and somnolence Respiratory : Dyspnea Special Senses : Vertigo Urogenital : Impotence Other reported events seen less frequently in clinical trials included chest pain , syncope , anorexia , vomiting , and angioedema .
Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 6 - 16 years and that previously reported for adult patients .
Neurocognitive and developmental assessment of pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years revealed no overall clinically relevant adverse impact after treatment with Diovan for up to one year .
In the one study ( n = 90 ) of pediatric patients ( 1 - 5 years ) , two deaths and three cases of on - treatment transaminase elevations were seen in the one - year open - label extension phase .
These 5 events occurred in a study population in which patients frequently had significant co - morbidities .
A causal relationship to Diovan has not been established .
Heart Failure The adverse experience profile of Diovan in heart failure patients was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the patients .
In the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , comparing valsartan in total daily doses up to 320 mg ( n = 2 , 506 ) to placebo ( n = 2 , 494 ) , 10 % of valsartan patients discontinued for adverse reactions vs . 7 % of placebo patients .
The table shows adverse reactions in double - blind short - term heart failure trials , including the first 4 months of the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , with an incidence of at least 2 % that were more frequent in valsartan - treated patients than in placebo - treated patients .
All patients received standard drug therapy for heart failure , frequently as multiple medications , which could include diuretics , digitalis , beta - blockers , or ACE inhibitors .
Valsartan ( n = 3 , 282 ) Placebo ( n = 2 , 740 ) Dizziness 17 % 9 % Hypotension 7 % 2 % Diarrhea 5 % 4 % Arthralgia 3 % 2 % Fatigue 3 % 2 % Back Pain 3 % 2 % Dizziness , postural 2 % 1 % Hyperkalemia 2 % 1 % Hypotension , postural 2 % 1 % Other adverse reactions with an incidence greater than 1 % and greater than placebo included headache NOS , nausea , renal impairment NOS , syncope , blurred vision , upper abdominal pain and vertigo .
( NOS = not otherwise specified ) .
From the long - term data in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , there did not appear to be any significant adverse reactions not previously identified .
Post - Myocardial Infarction The safety profile of Diovan was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the background diseases , cardiovascular risk factors , and clinical course of patients treated in the post - myocardial infarction setting .
The table shows the percent of patients discontinued in the valsartan and captopril - treated groups in the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial ( VALIANT ) with a rate of at least 0 . 5 % in either of the treatment groups .
Valsartan ( n = 4 , 885 ) Captopril ( n = 4 , 879 ) Discontinuation for adverse reaction 5 . 8 % 7 . 7 % Adverse reactions Hypotension NOS 1 . 4 % 0 . 8 % Cough 0 . 6 % 2 . 5 % Blood creatinine increased 0 . 6 % 0 . 4 % Rash NOS 0 . 2 % 0 . 6 % 6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience : Hypersensitivity : There are rare reports of angioedema ; Digestive : Elevated liver enzymes and very rare reports of hepatitis ; Renal : Impaired renal function ; Clinical Laboratory Tests : Hyperkalemia ; Dermatologic : Alopecia .
Blood and Lymphatic : There are very rare reports of thrombocytopenia .
Vascular : Vasculitis .
Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when Diovan ( valsartan ) was coadministered with amlodipine , atenolol , cimetidine , digoxin , furosemide , glyburide , hydrochlorothiazide , or indomethacin .
The valsartan - atenolol combination was more antihypertensive than either component , but it did not lower the heart rate more than atenolol alone .
Coadministration of valsartan and warfarin did not change the pharmacokinetics of valsartan or the time - course of the anticoagulant properties of warfarin .
CYP 450 Interactions : The enzyme ( s ) responsible for valsartan metabolism have not been identified but do not seem to be CYP 450 isozymes .
The inhibitory or induction potential of valsartan on CYP 450 is also unknown .
Transporters : The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2 .
Co - administration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter ( rifampin , cyclosporine ) or efflux transporter ( ritonavir ) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan .
As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects , concomitant use of potassium sparing diuretics ( e . g . spironolactone , triamterene , amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
• Potassium sparing diuretics , potassium supplements or salt substitutes may lead to increases in serum potassium , and in heart failure patients , increases in serum creatinine ( 7 ) • NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7 ) 7 . 1 Clinical Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials , clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Diovan .
Creatinine : Minor elevations in creatinine occurred in 0 . 8 % of patients taking Diovan and 0 . 6 % given placebo in controlled clinical trials of hypertensive patients .
In heart failure trials , greater than 50 % increases in creatinine were observed in 3 . 9 % of Diovan - treated patients compared to 0 . 9 % of placebo - treated patients .
In post - myocardial infarction patients , doubling of serum creatinine was observed in 4 . 2 % of valsartan - treated patients and 3 . 4 % of captopril - treated patients .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Greater than 20 % decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit were observed in 0 . 4 % and 0 . 8 % , respectively , of Diovan patients , compared with 0 . 1 % and 0 . 1 % in placebo - treated patients .
One valsartan patient discontinued treatment for microcytic anemia .
Liver Function Tests : Occasional elevations ( greater than 150 % ) of liver chemistries occurred in Diovan - treated patients .
Three patients ( < 0 . 1 % ) treated with valsartan discontinued treatment for elevated liver chemistries .
Neutropenia : Neutropenia was observed in 1 . 9 % of patients treated with Diovan and 0 . 8 % of patients treated with placebo .
Serum Potassium : In hypertensive patients , greater than 20 % increases in serum potassium were observed in 4 . 4 % of Diovan - treated patients compared to 2 . 9 % of placebo - treated patients .
In heart failure patients , greater than 20 % increases in serum potassium were observed in 10 . 0 % of Diovan - treated patients compared to 5 . 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) : In heart failure trials , greater than 50 % increases in BUN were observed in 16 . 6 % of Diovan - treated patients compared to 6 . 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing Mothers : Nursing or drug should be discontinued ( 8 . 3 ) ; Pediatrics : Efficacy and safety data support use in 6 - 16 year old patients ( 8 . 4 ) ; Geriatrics : No overall difference in efficacy or safety vs . younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D Diovan , like other drugs that act on the renin angiotensin system , can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when used during the second or third trimester of pregnancy .
Diovan can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists , like valsartan , and angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors exert similar effects on the renin - angiotensin system .
In several dozen published cases , ACE inhibitor use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy was associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios was also reported , presumably from decreased fetal renal function .
In this setting , oligohydramnios was associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus were also reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug .
In a retrospective study , first trimester use of ACE inhibitors , a specific class of drugs acting on the renin angiotensin system , was associated with a potential risk of birth defects .
When pregnancy occurs in a patient using Diovan , the physician should discontinue Diovan treatment as soon as possible .
The physician should inform the patient about potential risks to the fetus based on the time of gestational exposure to Diovan ( first trimester only or later ) .
If exposure occurs beyond the first trimester , an ultrasound examination should be done .
In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent can not be used to treat the pregnant patient , serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intraamniotic environment .
Routine fetal testing with non - stress tests , biophysical profiles , and / or contraction stress tests may be appropriate based on gestational age and standards of care in the community .
If oligohydramnios occurs in these situations , individualized decisions about continuing or discontinuing Diovan treatment and about pregnancy management should be made by the patient , her physician , and experts in the management of high risk pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to Diovan should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , these infants may require blood pressure and renal perfusion support .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required to reverse hypotension and / or support decreased renal function .
Healthcare professionals who prescribe drugs acting directly on the renin angiotensin system should counsel women of childbearing potential about the risks of these agents during pregnancy .
[ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Diovan is excreted in human milk .
Diovan was excreted in the milk of lactating rats ; however , animal breast milk drug levels may not accurately reflect human breast milk levels .
Because many drugs are excreted into human milk and because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from Diovan , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The antihypertensive effects of Diovan have been evaluated in two randomized , double - blind clinical studies in pediatric patients from 1 - 5 and 6 - 16 years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of Diovan have been evaluated in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age [ see Pharmacokinetics , Special Populations , Pediatric ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Diovan was generally well tolerated in children 6 - 16 years and the adverse experience profile was similar to that described for adults .
Diovan is not recommended for pediatric patients under 6 years of age due to safety findings for which a relationship to treatment could not be excluded [ see Adverse Reactions , Pediatric Hypertension ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Daily oral dosing of neonatal / juvenile rats with valsartan at doses as low as 1 mg / kg / day ( about 10 % of the maximum recommended pediatric dose on a mg / m2 basis ) from postnatal day 7 to postnatal day 70 produced persistent , irreversible kidney damage .
These kidney effects in neonatal rats represent expected exaggerated pharmacological effects that are observed if rats are treated during the first 13 days of life .
Since this period coincides with up to 44 weeks after conception in humans , it is not considered to point toward an increased safety concern in 6 to 16 year old children .
Diovan is not recommended for treatment of children with glomerular filtration rates < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , as no data are available .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials of valsartan , 1 , 214 ( 36 . 2 % ) of hypertensive patients treated with valsartan were ≥ 65 years and 265 ( 7 . 9 % ) were ≥ 75 years .
No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of valsartan was observed in this patient population , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Of the 2 , 511 patients with heart failure randomized to valsartan in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , 45 % ( 1 , 141 ) were 65 years of age or older .
In the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial ( VALIANT ) , 53 % ( 2 , 596 ) of the 4 , 909 patients treated with valsartan and 51 % ( 2 , 515 ) of the 4 , 885 patients treated with valsartan + captopril were 65 years of age or older .
There were no notable differences in efficacy or safety between older and younger patients in either trial .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
Depressed level of consciousness , circulatory collapse and shock have been reported .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Diovan ( valsartan ) is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis .
Valsartan was without grossly observable adverse effects at single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg in rats and up to 1000 mg / kg in marmosets , except for salivation and diarrhea in the rat and vomiting in the marmoset at the highest dose ( 60 and 31 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
11 DESCRIPTION Diovan ( valsartan ) is a nonpeptide , orally active , and specific angiotensin II receptor blocker acting on the AT1 receptor subtype .
Valsartan is chemically described as N - ( 1 - oxopentyl ) - N - [ [ 2 ′ - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) [ 1 , 1 ′ - biphenyl ] - 4 - yl ] methyl ] - L - valine .
Its empirical formula is C24H29N5O3 , its molecular weight is 435 . 5 , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Valsartan is a white to practically white fine powder .
It is soluble in ethanol and methanol and slightly soluble in water .
Diovan is available as tablets for oral administration , containing 40 mg , 80 mg , 160 mg or 320 mg of valsartan .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , iron oxides ( yellow , black and / or red ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 8000 , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Diovan ( valsartan ) blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Valsartan has much greater affinity ( about 20 , 000 - fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
The increased plasma levels of angiotensin II following AT1 receptor blockade with valsartan may stimulate the unblocked AT2 receptor .
The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT1 receptor about one - 200 th that of valsartan itself .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Valsartan inhibits the pressor effect of angiotensin II infusions .
An oral dose of 80 mg inhibits the pressor effect by about 80 % at peak with approximately 30 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
No information on the effect of larger doses is available .
Removal of the negative feedback of angiotensin II causes a 2 - to 3 - fold rise in plasma renin and consequent rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration in hypertensive patients .
Minimal decreases in plasma aldosterone were observed after administration of valsartan ; very little effect on serum potassium was observed .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients with stable renal insufficiency and patients with renovascular hypertension , valsartan had no clinically significant effects on glomerular filtration rate , filtration fraction , creatinine clearance , or renal plasma flow .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients , valsartan had no notable effects on total cholesterol , fasting triglycerides , fasting serum glucose , or uric acid .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Valsartan peak plasma concentration is reached 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
Valsartan shows bi - exponential decay kinetics following intravenous administration , with an average elimination half - life of about 6 hours .
Absolute bioavailability for Diovan is about 25 % ( range 10 % - 35 % ) .
The bioavailability of the suspension ( see [ 2 . 2 ] Dosage and Administration ; Pediatric Hypertension ) is 1 . 6 times greater than with the tablet .
With the tablet , food decreases the exposure ( as measured by AUC ) to valsartan by about 40 % and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) by about 50 % .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase approximately linearly with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range .
Valsartan does not accumulate appreciably in plasma following repeated administration .
Metabolism and Elimination : Valsartan , when administered as an oral solution , is primarily recovered in feces ( about 83 % of dose ) and urine ( about 13 % of dose ) .
The recovery is mainly as unchanged drug , with only about 20 % of dose recovered as metabolites .
The primary metabolite , accounting for about 9 % of dose , is valeryl 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
The enzyme ( s ) responsible for valsartan metabolism have not been identified but do not seem to be CYP 450 isozymes .
Following intravenous administration , plasma clearance of valsartan is about 2 L / h and its renal clearance is 0 . 62 L / h ( about 30 % of total clearance ) .
Distribution : The steady state volume of distribution of valsartan after intravenous administration is small ( 17 L ) , indicating that valsartan does not distribute into tissues extensively .
Valsartan is highly bound to serum proteins ( 95 % ) , mainly serum albumin .
Special Populations : Pediatric : In a study of pediatric hypertensive patients ( n = 26 , 1 - 16 years of age ) given single doses of a suspension of Diovan ( mean : 0 . 9 to 2 mg / kg ) , the clearance ( L / h / kg ) of valsartan for children was similar to that of adultsreceiving the same formulation .
Geriatric : Exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan is higher by 70 % and the half - life is longer by 35 % in the elderly than in the young .
No dosage adjustment is necessary [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Gender : Pharmacokinetics of valsartan does not differ significantly between males and females .
Heart Failure : The average time to peak concentration and elimination half - life of valsartan in heart failure patients are similar to that observed in healthy volunteers .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase linearly and are almost proportional with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range ( 40 to 160 mg twice a day ) .
The average accumulation factor is about 1 . 7 .
The apparent clearance of valsartan following oral administration is approximately 4 . 5 L / h .
Age does not affect the apparent clearance in heart failure patients .
Renal Insufficiency : There is no apparent correlation between renal function ( measured by creatinine clearance ) and exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan in patients with different degrees of renal impairment .
Consequently , dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild - to - moderate renal dysfunction .
No studies have been performed in patients with severe impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis .
In the case of severe renal disease , exercise care with dosing of valsartan [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatic Insufficiency : On average , patients with mild - to - moderate chronic liver disease have twice the exposure ( measured by AUC values ) to valsartan of healthy volunteers ( matched by age , sex and weight ) .
In general , no dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild - to - moderate liver disease .
Care should be exercised in patients with liver disease [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when valsartan was administered in the diet to mice and rats for up to 2 years at doses up to 160 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses in mice and rats are about 2 . 6 and 6 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
Mutagenicity assays did not reveal any valsartan - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
These assays included bacterial mutagenicity tests with Salmonella ( Ames ) and E coli ; a gene mutation test with Chinese hamster V79 cells ; a cytogenetic test with Chinese hamster ovary cells ; and a rat micronucleus test .
Valsartan had no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of male or female rats at oral doses up to 200 mg / kg / day .
This dose is 6 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Reproductive Toxicology Studies No teratogenic effects were observed when valsartan was administered to pregnant mice and rats at oral doses up to 600 mg / kg / day and to pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 10 mg / kg / day .
However , significant decreases in fetal weight , pup birth weight , pup survival rate , and slight delays in developmental milestones were observed in studies in which parental rats were treated with valsartan at oral , maternally toxic ( reduction in body weight gain and food consumption ) doses of 600 mg / kg / day during organogenesis or late gestation and lactation .
In rabbits , fetotoxicity ( i . e . , resorptions , litter loss , abortions , and low body weight ) associated with maternal toxicity ( mortality ) was observed at doses of 5 and 10 mg / kg / day .
The no observed adverse effect doses of 600 , 200 and 2 mg / kg / day in mice , rats and rabbits represent 9 , 6 , and 0 . 1 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 1 Hypertension Adult Hypertension The antihypertensive effects of Diovan ( valsartan ) were demonstrated principally in 7 placebo - controlled , 4 - to 12 - week trials ( one in patients over 65 ) of dosages from 10 to 320 mg / day in patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures of 95 - 115 .
The studies allowed comparison of once - daily and twice - daily regimens of 160 mg / day ; comparison of peak and trough effects ; comparison ( in pooled data ) of response by gender , age , and race ; and evaluation of incremental effects of hydrochlorothiazide .
Administration of valsartan to patients with essential hypertension results in a significant reduction of sitting , supine , and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure , usually with little or no orthostatic change .
In most patients , after administration of a single oral dose , onset of antihypertensive activity occurs at approximately 2 hours , and maximum reduction of blood pressure is achieved within 6 hours .
The antihypertensive effect persists for 24 hours after dosing , but there is a decrease from peak effect at lower doses ( 40 mg ) presumably reflecting loss of inhibition of angiotensin II .
At higher doses , however ( 160 mg ) , there is little difference in peak and trough effect .
During repeated dosing , the reduction in blood pressure with any dose is substantially present within 2 weeks , and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks .
In long - term follow - up studies ( without placebo control ) , the effect of valsartan appeared to be maintained for up to two years .
The antihypertensive effect is independent of age , gender or race .
The latter finding regarding race is based on pooled data and should be viewed with caution , because antihypertensive drugs that affect the renin - angiotensin system ( that is , ACE inhibitors and angiotensin - II blockers ) have generally been found to be less effective in low - renin hypertensives ( frequently blacks ) than in high - renin hypertensives ( frequently whites ) .
In pooled , randomized , controlled trials of Diovan that included a total of 140 blacks and 830 whites , valsartan and an ACE - inhibitor control were generally at least as effective in blacks as whites .
The explanation for this difference from previous findings is unclear .
Abrupt withdrawal of valsartan has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
The blood pressure lowering effect of valsartan and thiazide - type diuretics are approximately additive .
The 7 studies of valsartan monotherapy included over 2 , 000 patients randomized to various doses of valsartan and about 800 patients randomized to placebo .
Doses below 80 mg were not consistently distinguished from those of placebo at trough , but doses of 80 , 160 and 320 mg produced dose - related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure , with the difference from placebo of approximately 6 - 9 / 3 - 5 mmHg at 80 - 160 mg and 9 / 6 mmHg at 320 mg .
In a controlled trial the addition of HCTZ to valsartan 80 mg resulted in additional lowering of systolic and diastolic blood pressure by approximately 6 / 3 and 12 / 5 mmHg for 12 . 5 and 25 mg of HCTZ , respectively , compared to valsartan 80 mg alone .
Patients with an inadequate response to 80 mg once daily were titrated to either 160 mg once daily or 80 mg twice daily , which resulted in a comparable response in both groups .
In controlled trials , the antihypertensive effect of once - daily valsartan 80 mg was similar to that of once - daily enalapril 20 mg or once - daily lisinopril 10 mg .
There are no trials of Diovan demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but at least one pharmacologically similar drug has demonstrated such benefits .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in valsartan - treated patients in controlled trials .
Pediatric Hypertension The antihypertensive effects of Diovan were evaluated in two randomized , double - blind clinical studies .
In a clinical study involving 261 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age , patients who weighed < 35 kg received 10 , 40 or 80 mg of valsartan daily ( low , medium and high doses ) , and patients who weighed ≥ 35 kg received 20 , 80 , and 160 mg of valsartan daily ( low , medium and high doses ) .
Renal and urinary disorders , and essential hypertension with or without obesity were the most common underlying causes of hypertension in children enrolled in this study .
At the end of 2 weeks , valsartan reduced both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in a dose - dependent manner .
Overall , the three dose levels of valsartan ( low , medium and high ) significantly reduced systolic blood pressure by - 8 , - 10 , - 12 mm Hg from the baseline , respectively .
Patients were re - randomized to either continue receiving the same dose of valsartan or were switched to placebo .
In patients who continued to receive the medium and high doses of valsartan , systolic blood pressure at trough was - 4 and - 7 mm Hg lower than patients who received the placebo treatment .
In patients receiving the low dose of valsartan , systolic blood pressure at trough was similar to that of patients who received the placebo treatment .
Overall , the dose - dependent antihypertensive effect of valsartan was consistent across all the demographic subgroups .
In a clinical study involving 90 hypertensive pediatric patients 1 to 5 years of age with a similar study design , there was some evidence of effectiveness , but safety findings for which a relationship to treatment could not be excluded mitigate against recommending use in this age group .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
14 . 2 Heart Failure The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial ( Val - HeFT ) was a multinational , double - blind study in which 5 , 010 patients with NYHA class II ( 62 % ) to IV ( 2 % ) heart failure and LVEF < 40 % , on baseline therapy chosen by their physicians , were randomized to placebo or valsartan ( titrated from 40 mg twice daily to the highest tolerated dose or 160 mg twice daily ) and followed for a mean of about 2 years .
Although Val - HeFT ’ s primary goal was to examine the effect of valsartan when added to an ACE inhibitor , about 7 % were not receiving an ACE inhibitor .
Other background therapy included diuretics ( 86 % ) , digoxin ( 67 % ) , and beta - blockers ( 36 % ) .
The population studied was 80 % male , 46 % 65 years or older and 89 % Caucasian .
At the end of the trial , patients in the valsartan group had a blood pressure that was 4 mmHg systolic and 2 mmHg diastolic lower than the placebo group .
There were two primary end points , both assessed as time to first event : all - cause mortality and heart failure morbidity , the latter defined as all - cause mortality , sudden death with resuscitation , hospitalization for heart failure , and the need for intravenous inotropic or vasodilatory drugs for at least 4 hours .
These results are summarized in the table below .
Placebo Valsartan Hazard Ratio Nominal ( N = 2 , 499 ) ( N = 2 , 511 ) ( 95 % CI * ) p - value All - cause mortality 484 495 1 . 02 0 . 8 ( 19 . 4 % ) ( 19 . 7 % ) ( 0 . 90 - 1 . 15 ) HF morbidity 801 723 0 . 87 0 . 009 ( 32 . 1 % ) ( 28 . 8 % ) ( 0 . 79 - 0 . 97 ) * CI = Confidence Interval Although the overall morbidity result favored valsartan , this result was largely driven by the 7 % of patients not receiving an ACE inhibitor , as shown in the following table .
Without ACE Inhibitor With ACE Inhibitor Placebo Valsartan Placebo Valsartan ( N = 181 ) ( N = 185 ) ( N = 2 , 318 ) ( N = 2 , 326 ) Events ( % ) 77 ( 42 . 5 % ) 46 ( 24 . 9 % ) 724 ( 31 . 2 % ) 677 ( 29 . 1 % ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 51 ( 0 . 35 , 0 . 73 ) 0 . 92 ( 0 . 82 , 1 . 02 ) p - value 0 . 0002 0 . 0965 The modest favorable trend in the group receiving an ACE inhibitor was largely driven by the patients receiving less than the recommended dose of ACE inhibitor .
Thus , there is little evidence of further clinical benefit when valsartan is added to an adequate dose of ACE inhibitor .
Secondary end points in the subgroup not receiving ACE inhibitors were as follows .
Placebo Valsartan Hazard Ratio ( N = 181 ) ( N = 185 ) ( 95 % CI ) Components of HF morbidity All - cause mortality 49 ( 27 . 1 % ) 32 ( 17 . 3 % ) 0 . 59 ( 0 . 37 , 0 . 91 ) Sudden death with resuscitation 2 ( 1 . 1 % ) 1 ( 0 . 5 % ) 0 . 47 ( 0 . 04 , 5 . 20 ) CHF therapy 1 ( 0 . 6 % ) 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) – CHF hospitalization 48 ( 26 . 5 % ) 24 ( 13 . 0 % ) 0 . 43 ( 0 . 27 , 0 . 71 ) Cardiovascular mortality 40 ( 22 . 1 % ) 29 ( 15 . 7 % ) 0 . 65 ( 0 . 40 , 1 . 05 ) Non - fatal morbidity 49 ( 27 . 1 % ) 24 ( 13 . 0 % ) 0 . 42 ( 0 . 26 , 0 . 69 ) In patients not receiving an ACE inhibitor , valsartan - treated patients had an increase in ejection fraction and reduction in left ventricular internal diastolic diameter ( LVIDD ) .
Effects were generally consistent across subgroups defined by age and gender for the population of patients not receiving an ACE inhibitor .
The number of black patients was small and does not permit a meaningful assessment in this subset of patients .
14 . 3 Post - Myocardial Infarction The VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion trial ( VALIANT ) was a randomized , controlled , multinational , double - blind study in 14 , 703 patients with acute myocardial infarction and either heart failure ( signs , symptoms or radiological evidence ) or left ventricular systolic dysfunction ( ejection fraction ≤ 40 % by radionuclide ventriculography or ≤ 35 % by echocardiography or ventricular contrast angiography ) .
Patients were randomized within 12 hours to 10 days after the onset of myocardial infarction symptoms to one of three treatment groups : valsartan ( titrated from 20 or 40 mg twice daily to the highest tolerated dose up to a maximum of 160 mg twice daily ) , the ACE inhibitor , captopril ( titrated from 6 . 25 mg three times daily to the highest tolerated dose up to a maximum of 50 mg three times daily ) , or the combination of valsartan plus captopril .
In the combination group , the dose of valsartan was titrated from 20 mg twice daily to the highest tolerated dose up to a maximum of 80 mg twice daily ; the dose of captopril was the same as for monotherapy .
The population studied was 69 % male , 94 % Caucasian , and 53 % were 65 years of age or older .
Baseline therapy included aspirin ( 91 % ) , beta - blockers ( 70 % ) , ACE inhibitors ( 40 % ) , thrombolytics ( 35 % ) and statins ( 34 % ) .
The mean treatment duration was two years .
The mean daily dose of Diovan in the monotherapy group was 217 mg .
The primary endpoint was time to all - cause mortality .
Secondary endpoints included ( 1 ) time to cardiovascular ( CV ) mortality , and ( 2 ) time to the first event of cardiovascular mortality , reinfarction , or hospitalization for heart failure .
The results are summarized in the table below : Valsartan vs . Captopril ( N = 4 , 909 ) ( N = 4 , 909 ) Valsartan + Captopril vs . Captopril ( N = 4 , 885 ) ( N = 4 , 909 ) No .
of Deaths Valsartan / Captopril Hazard Ratio CI p - value No .
of Deaths Comb / Captopril Hazard Ratio CI p - value All - cause mortality 979 ( 19 . 9 % ) / 958 ( 19 . 5 % ) 1 . 001 ( 0 . 902 , 1 . 111 ) 0 . 98 941 ( 19 . 3 % ) / 958 ( 19 . 5 % ) 0 . 984 ( 0 . 886 , 1 . 093 ) 0 . 73 CV mortality 827 ( 16 . 8 % ) / 830 ( 16 . 9 % ) 0 . 976 ( 0 . 875 , 1 . 090 ) CV mortality , hospitalization for HF , and recurrent non - fatal MI 1 , 529 ( 31 . 1 % ) / 1 , 567 ( 31 . 9 % ) 0 . 955 ( 0 . 881 , 1 . 035 ) There was no difference in overall mortality among the three treatment groups .
There was thus no evidence that combining the ACE inhibitor captopril and the angiotensin II blocker valsartan was of value .
The data were assessed to see whether the effectiveness of valsartan could be demonstrated by showing in a non - inferiority analysis that it preserved a fraction of the effect of captopril , a drug with a demonstrated survival effect in this setting .
A conservative estimate of the effect of captopril ( based on a pooled analysis of 3 post - infarction studies of captopril and 2 other ACE inhibitors ) was a 14 - 16 % reduction in mortality compared to placebo .
Valsartan would be considered effective if it preserved a meaningful fraction of that effect and unequivocally preserved some of that effect .
As shown in the table , the upper bound of the CI for the hazard ratio ( valsartan / captopril ) for overall or CV mortality is 1 . 09 - 1 . 11 , a difference of about 9 - 11 % , thus making it unlikely that valsartan has less than about half of the estimated effect of captopril and clearly demonstrating an effect of valsartan .
The other secondary endpoints were consistent with this conclusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] There were no clear differences in all - cause mortality based on age , gender , race , or baseline therapies , as shown in the figure above .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Diovan ( valsartan ) is available as tablets containing valsartan 40 mg , 80 mg , 160 mg , or 320 mg .
All strengths are packaged in bottles and unit dose blister packages ( 10 strips of 10 tablets ) as described below .
40 mg tablets are scored on one side and ovaloid with bevelled edges .
80 mg , 160 mg , and 320 mg tablets are unscored and almond - shaped with bevelled edges .
Tablet Color Deboss Side 1 Side 2 Bottles of 10 15 30 60 90 180 40 mg Yellow NVR DO – – 54868 - 5977 - 0 – – – 80 mg Pale red NVR DV 54868 - 4645 - 1 54868 - 4652 - 4 54868 - 4652 - 0 54868 - 4652 - 3 54868 - 4652 - 2 54868 - 4652 - 5 160 mg Grey - orange NVR DX 54868 - 4645 - 1 – 54868 - 4645 - 0 54868 - 4645 - 3 54868 - 4645 - 2 – 320 mg Dark grey - violet NVR DXL 54868 - 5082 - 1 – 54868 - 5082 - 0 54868 - 5082 - 3 54868 - 5082 - 2 – Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for PatientsPregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told that use of drugs like Diovan that act on the renin - angiotensin system during pregnancy can cause serious problems in the fetus and infant including : low blood pressure , poor development of skull bones , kidney failure and death .
Women using Diovan who become pregnant should notify their physician as soon as possible .
DIOVAN ( DYE ’ - o - van ) ( valsartan ) Tablets Read the Patient Information that comes with DIOVAN before you take it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
If you have any questions about DIOVAN , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN ?
Taking DIOVAN during pregnancy can cause injury and even death to your unborn baby .
If you get pregnant , stop taking DIOVAN and call your doctor right away .
Talk to your doctor about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
What is DIOVAN ?
DIOVAN is a prescription medicine called an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) .
It is used in adults to : • lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) in adults and children , 6 to 16 years of age .
• treat heart failure in adults .
In these patients , DIOVAN may lower the need for hospitalization that happens from heart failure .
• improve the chance of living longer after a heart attack ( myocardial infarction ) in adults .
DIOVAN is not for children under 6 years of age or children with certain kidney problems .
High Blood Pressure ( Hypertension ) .
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
DIOVAN can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
Medicines that lower your blood pressure lower your chance of having a stroke or heart attack .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood throughout the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
If high blood pressure is not treated , it can lead to stroke , heart attack , heart failure , kidney failure and vision problems .
Heart Failure occurs when the heart is weak and cannot pump enough blood to your lungs and the rest of your body .
Just walking or moving can make you short of breath , so you may have to rest a lot .
Heart Attack ( Myocardial Infarction ) : A heart attack is caused by a blocked artery that results in damage to the heart muscle .
What should I tell my doctor before taking DIOVAN ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including whether you : • have any allergies .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in DIOVAN .
• have a heart condition • have liver problems • have kidney problems • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN ? ”
• are breast - feeding .
It is not known if DIOVAN passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take DIOVAN or breast - feed , but not both .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take DIOVAN .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • other medicines for high blood pressure or a heart problem • water pills ( also called “ diuretics ” ) • potassium supplements • a salt substitute • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( like ibuprofen or naproxen ) Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show to your doctor and pharmacist when a new medicine is prescribed .
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you start taking any new medicine .
Your doctor or pharmacist will know what medicines are safe to take together .
How should I take DIOVAN ?
• Take DIOVAN exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• For treatment of high blood pressure , take DIOVAN one time each day , at the same time each day .
• If your child cannot swallow tablets , or if tablets are not available in the prescribed strength , your pharmacist will mix DIOVAN as a liquid suspension for your child .
If your child switches between taking the tablet and the suspension , your doctor will adjust the dose as needed .
Shake the bottle of suspension well for at least 10 seconds before pouring the dose of medicine to give to your child .
• For adult patients with heart failure or who have had a heart attack , take DIOVAN two times each day , at the same time each day .
Your doctor may start you on a low dose of DIOVAN and may increase the dose during your treatment .
• DIOVAN can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much DIOVAN , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of DIOVAN ?
DIOVAN may cause the following serious side effects : Injury or death to an unborn baby .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about DIOVAN ? ”
Low Blood Pressure ( Hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure is most likely to happen if you also take water pills , are on a low - salt diet , get dialysis treatments , have heart problems , or get sick with vomiting or diarrhea .
Lie down , if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
Kidney problems .
Kidney problems may get worse in people that already have kidney disease .
Some people will have changes on blood tests for kidney function and may need a lower dose of DIOVAN .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands , or unexplained weight gain .
If you have heart failure , your doctor should check your kidney function before prescribing DIOVAN .
The most common side effects of DIOVAN used to treat people with high blood pressure include : • headache • dizziness • flu symptoms • tiredness • stomach ( abdominal ) pain Side effects were generally mild and brief .
They generally have not caused patients to stop taking DIOVAN .
The most common side effects of DIOVAN used to treat people with heart failure include : • dizziness • low blood pressure • diarrhea • joint and back pain • tiredness • high blood potassium Common side effects of DIOVAN used to treat people after a heart attack which caused them to stop taking the drug include : • low blood pressure • cough • high blood creatinine ( decreased kidney function ) • rash Tell your doctor if you get any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of DIOVAN .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store DIOVAN ?
• Store DIOVAN tablets at room temperature between 59º to 86ºF ( 15ºC - 30ºC ) .
• Keep DIOVAN tablets in a closed container in a dry place .
• Store bottles of DIOVAN suspension at room temperature less than 86ºF ( 30ºC ) for up to 30 days , or refrigerate between 35ºF - 46ºF ( 2ºC - 8ºC ) for up to 75 days .
• Keep DIOVAN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about DIOVAN Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use DIOVAN for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DIOVAN to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about DIOVAN .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about DIOVAN that is written for health professionals .
For more information about DIOVAN , ask your pharmacist or doctor , visit www . DIOVAN . com on the Internet , or call 1 - 866 - 404 - 6361 .
What are the ingredients in DIOVAN ?
Active ingredient : valsartan Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , iron oxides ( yellow , black and / or red ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 8000 , and titanium dioxide Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp .
East Hanover , NJ 07936 © Novartis T2012 - 01 / T2012 - 02 December 2011 / December 2011 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 40 mg Rx Only Diovan ® valsartan 40 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 80 mg Rx Only Diovan ® valsartan 80 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 160 mg Rx Only Diovan ® valsartan 160 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 320 mg Rx Only Diovan ® valsartan 320 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
