DESCRIPTION Lorazepam , an antianxiety agent , has the chemical formula , ( ± ) - 7 - Chloro - 5 - ( o - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 3 - hydroxy - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a nearly white powder almost insoluble in water .
Each lorazepam tablet , to be taken orally , contains 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg or 2 mg of lorazepam .
This product contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose and polacrilin potassium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Studies in healthy volunteers show that in single high doses lorazepam has a tranquilizing action on the central nervous system with no appreciable effect on the respiratory or cardiovascular systems .
Lorazepam is readily absorbed with an absolute bioavailability of 90 percent .
Peak concentrations in plasma occur approximately 2 hours following administration .
The peak plasma level of lorazepam from a 2 mg dose is approximately 20 ng / ml .
The mean half - life of unconjugated lorazepam in human plasma is about 12 hours and for its major metabolite , lorazepam glucuronide , about 18 hours .
At clinically relevant concentrations , lorazepam is approximately 85 % bound to plasma proteins .
Lorazepam is rapidly conjugated at its 3 - hydroxy group into lorazepam glucuronide which is then excreted in the urine .
Lorazepam glucuronide has no demonstrable CNS activity in animals .
The plasma levels of lorazepam are proportional to the dose given .
There is no evidence of accumulation of lorazepam on administration up to six months .
Studies comparing young and elderly subjects have shown that the pharmacokinetics of lorazepam remain unaltered with advancing age .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lorazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety associated with depressive symptoms .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of lorazepam in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to the benzodiazepines or with acute narrow - angle glaucoma .
WARNINGS Lorazepam is not recommended for use in patients with a primary depressive disorder of psychosis .
As with all patients on CNS - acting drugs , patients receiving lorazepam should be warned not to operate dangerous machinery or motor vehicles and that their tolerance for alcohol and other CNS depressants will be diminished .
PRECAUTIONS In patients with depression accompanying anxiety , a possibility for suicide should be borne in mind .
For elderly or debilitated patients , the initial daily dosage should not exceed 2 mg in order to avoid oversedation .
Lorazepam dosage should be terminated gradually , since abrupt withdrawal of any antianxiety agent may result in symptoms similar to those for which patients are being treated : anxiety , agitation , irritability , tension , insomnia , and occasional convulsions .
The usual precautions for treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
In patients where gastrointestinal or cardiovascular disorders coexist with anxiety , it should be noted that lorazepam has not been shown to be of significant benefit in treating the gastrointestinal or cardiovascular component .
Esophageal dilation occurred in rats treated with lorazepam for more than one year at 6 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose was 1 . 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of 10 mg per day ) .
The effect was reversible only when the treatment was withdrawn within two months of first observation of the phenomenon .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
However , use of lorazepam for prolonged periods and in geriatric patients requires caution and there should be frequent monitoring for symptoms of upper G . l . disease .
Safety and effectiveness of lorazepam in children of less than 12 years have not been established .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTSTo assure the safe and effective use of lorazepam , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
ESSENTIAL LABORATORY TESTSSome patients on lorazepam have developed leukopenia , and some have had elevations of LDH .
As with other benzodiazepines , periodic blood counts and liver - function tests are recommended for patients on long - term therapy .
CLINICALLY SIGNIFICANT DRUG INTERACTIONSThe benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , produce CNS - depressant effects when administered with such medications as barbiturates or alcohol .
CARCINOGENESIS AND MUTAGENESISNo evidence of carcinogenic potential emerged in rats during an 18 - month study with lorazepam .
No studies regarding mutagenesis have been performed .
PREGNANCYReproductive studies in animals were performed in mice , rats , and two strains of rabbits .
Occasional anomalies ( reduction of tarsals , tibia , metatarsals , malrotated limbs , gastroschisis , malformed skull , and microphthalmia ) were seen in drug - treated rabbits without relationship to dosage .
Although all of these anomalies were not present in the concurrent control group , they have been reported to occur randomly in historical controls .
At doses of 40 mg / kg and higher , there was evidence of fetal resorption and increased fetal loss in rabbits which was not seen at lower doses .
The clinical significance of the above findings is not known .
However , an increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because the use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , the use of lorazepam during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant , they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
In humans , blood levels obtained from umbilical cord blood indicate placental transfer of lorazepam and lorazepam glucuronide .
NURSING MOTHERSIt is not known whether oral lorazepam is excreted in human milk like the other benzodiazepine tranquilizers .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions , if they occur , are usually observed at the beginning of therapy and generally disappear on continued medication or upon decreasing the dose .
In a sample of about 3 , 500 anxious patients , the most frequent adverse reaction to lorazepam is sedation ( 15 . 9 % ) , followed by dizziness ( 6 . 9 % ) , weakness ( 4 . 2 % ) , and unsteadiness ( 3 . 4 % ) .
Less frequent adverse reactions are disorientation , depression , nausea , change in appetite , headache , sleep disturbance , agitation , dermatological symptoms , eye - function disturbance , together with various gastrointestinal symptoms and autonomic manifestations .
The incidence of sedation and unsteadiness increased with age .
Small decreases in blood pressure have been noted but are not clinically significant , probably being related to the relief of anxiety produced by lorazepam .
Transient amnesia or memory impairment has been reported in association with the use of benzodiazepines .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of lorazepam .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage - tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving lorazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
Lorazepam tablets are classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule IV controlled substance .
OVERDOSAGE In the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
Manifestations of lorazepam overdosage include somnolence , confusion , and coma .
Induced vomiting and / or gastric lavage should be undertaken , followed by general supportive care , monitoring of vital signs , and close observation of the patient .
Hypotension , though unlikely , usually may be controlled with norepinephrine bitartrate injection .
The usefulness of dialysis has not been determined .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation , and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for re - sedation , respiratory depression , and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lorazepam is administered orally .
For optimal results , dose , frequency of administration , and duration of therapy should be individualized according to patient response .
To facilitate this , 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , and 2 mg tablets are available .
The usual range is 2 to 6 mg / day given in divided doses , the largest dose being taken before bedtime , but the daily dosage may vary from 1 to 10 mg / day .
For anxiety , most patients require an initial dose of 2 to 3 mg / day given b . i . d . or t . i . d . For insomnia due to anxiety or transient situational stress , a single daily dose of 2 to 4 mg may be given , usually at bedtime .
For elderly or debilitated patients , an initial dosage of 1 to 2 mg / day in divided doses is recommended , to be adjusted as needed and tolerated .
The dosage of lorazepam should be increased gradually when needed to help avoid adverse effects .
When higher dosage is indicated , the evening dose should be increased before the daytime doses .
HOW SUPPLIED Lorazepam tablets are available in the following dosage strengths : 0 . 5 mg : white , scored , round flat faced beveled edge , debossed with 240 over 0 . 5 on one side and WATSON on the other side , supplied in : Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 0 Bottles of 20 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 2 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 3 Bottles of 50 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 5 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 6 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 9 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 2145 - 4 1 mg : white , scored , round flat faced beveled edge , debossed with 241 over 1 on one side and WATSON on the other side , supplied in : Bottles of 03 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 6 Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 7 Bottles of 15 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 0 Bottles of 20 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 1 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 3 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 4 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 8 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 2 Bottles of 120 NDC 54868 - 1338 - 9 2 mg : white , scored , round flat faced beveled edge , debossed with 242 over 2 on one side and WATSON on the other side , supplied in : Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 0061 - 3 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 0061 - 5 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 0061 - 4 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 0061 - 2 Bottles of 120 NDC 54868 - 0061 - 6 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP . ]
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA 30223 - 3 Rev : February 2004 Repackaging and Relabeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Lorazepam tablets 0 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
