MAXITROL * ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) Sterile DESCRIPTION MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) is a multiple dose anti - infective steroid combination in sterile ointment form for topical application .
The chemical structure for the active ingredient Neomycin Sulfate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neomycin B ( R1 = H , R2 = CH2NH2 ) Neomycin C ( R1 = CH2NH2 , R2 = H ) The chemical structure for the active ingredient Polymyxin B Sulfate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical structure for the active ingredient Dexamethasone is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H29FO5 MW = 392 . 47 Established name : dexamethasone Chemical name : pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Each gram of MAXITROL * ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) contains : Active : neomycin sulfate equivalent to neomycin 3 . 5 mg , polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units , dexamethasone 0 . 1 % .
Preservatives : methylparaben 0 . 05 % , propylparaben 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : white petrolatum , anhydrous liquid lanolin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow healing .
Since corticosteroids may inhibit the body ' s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
When a decision to administer both a corticosteroid and an antimicrobial is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of both drugs is administered , plus assured compatibility of ingredients when both types of drugs are in the same formulation and , particularly , that the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists .
Ocular steroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of steroid use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical , radiation or thermal burns ; or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye .
The particular anti - infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilusinfluenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against : Serratiamarcescensand Streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MAXITROL * ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) is contraindicated in epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
Mycobacterial infection of the eye .
Fungal diseases of ocular structures .
MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to a component of the medication .
( Hypersensitivity to the antibiotic component occurs at a higher rate than for other components . )
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of steroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Prolonged use may result in glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions or parasitic infections of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure ( IOP ) should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
IOP should be checked frequently .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
Products containing neomycin sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
Sensitivity to topically administered aminoglycosides , such as neomycin , may occur in some patients .
Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema , itching , urticaria , skin rash , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reactions , or bullous reactions .
If hypersensitivity develops during use of the product , treatment should be discontinued .
Cross - hypersensitivity to other aminoglycosides can occur , and the possibility that patients who become sensitized to topical neomycin may also be sensitive to other topical and / or systemic aminoglycosides should be considered .
PRECAUTIONS General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 8 g of MAXITROL * ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as a slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged steroid dosing .
Fungal infection should be suspected in patients with persistent corneal ulceration .
Information for Patients If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the tube tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this tube by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep tube tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Patients should be advised that their vision may be temporarily blurred following dosing with MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) .
Care should be exercised in operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate .
Treatment of cultured human lymphocytes in vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentration ( 80 μg / mL ) tested .
However , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
Pregnancy Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , prolonged or repeated corticoid use during pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of intra - uterine growth retardation .
MAXITROL * ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk , could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component , the anti - infective component , or the combination .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations .
The reactions due to the steroid component are : elevation of IOP with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Secondary Infection : The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials .
Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroid .
The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , and conjunctival hyperemia have occasionally been reported following use of steroids .
Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs .
Additional adverse reactions identified from post marketing use include ulcerative keratitis , headache , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a small amount into the conjunctival sac ( s ) up to three or four times daily .
How to Apply MAXITROL * ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) : 1 .
Tilt your head back .
2 .
Place a finger on your cheek just under your eye and gently pull down until a " V " pocket is formed between your eyeball and your lower lid .
3 .
Place a small amount ( about ½ inch ) of MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) in the " V " pocket .
Do not let the tip of the tube touch your eye .
4 .
Look downward before closing your eye .
Not more than 8 g should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
HOW SUPPLIED MAXITROL ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) is supplied as a STERILE ointment in an aluminum tube with a white polyethylene tip and white polyethylene cap as follows : 3 . 5 g in an aluminum tube NDC 0065 - 0631 - 36 Storage : Store at 2 ° C to25 ° C ( 36 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
© 2002 , 2003 , 2016 , 2017 © Novartis Distributed by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA * a trademark of Novartis Alcon ® a Novartis company T2017 - 122 December 2017 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0065 - 0631 - 36 Alcon ® Maxitrol ® ( neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic ointment ) Sterile 3 . 5 g Net Wt .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
