Fursultiamine ( Active vitamin B1 ) 50 . 0 mg Riboflavin tetrabutyrate ( Active vitamin B2 ) 2 . 5 mg Pyridoxal phosphate ( Active vitamin B6 ) 2 . 5 mg Hydroxocobalamin acetate ( Active vitamin B12 ) 5 . 22μg Ascorbic acid ( Vitamin C ) 70 mg Tocopheryl acetate ( Vitamin E ) 20 . 0 mg Vitamines , Mineral & nutrients Keep out of reach of children Adults : take 1 tablet twice a day .
1 ) Do not take this medicine .
( 1 ) Patients with hypersensitivity reactions to NSAIDs and the components contained in NSAIDs ( 2 ) Infants under three months of age ( 3 ) Because this drug contains lactose , patients with genetic problems such as galactose intolerance , Lapp lactase deficiency , or glucose - galactose malabsorption Do not administer .
2 ) Do not take the following medicine while taking this medicine .
( 1 ) levodopa 3 ) Consult a doctor , dentist or pharmacist before taking this medicine .
( 1 ) Patients receiving medical treatment ( 2 ) patients with hyperoxaluria ( excessive urinary excretion of urine ) ( 3 ) Pregnant women and possibly pregnant women , lactating women , premature infants , infants ( 4 ) Patients with gout or kidney stones 4 ) Stop taking this drug immediately and consult a doctor , dentist , or pharmacist if you : Whenever possible , bring this attached document with you .
( 1 ) If you have any of the following symptoms Stomach discomfort , diarrhea , constipation , rash , fever , nausea , vomiting , dilated stool , stomatitis ( mouth salt ) , anorexia , abdominal bloating ( 2 ) Administration of this drug may result in faster or more frequent menstruation , and bleeding may last for a long time .
( 3 ) The risk of thrombosis may be increased if a woman taking an oral contraceptive containing estrogen or a patient with thrombotic placenta is taking vitamin E . ( 4 ) Long - term administration of high doses may result in resistance .
( 5 ) Prolonged use of pyridoxine at a dose of 500 mg to 2 g / day may result in neuropathy or neuropathy ( functional disorder or pathologic changes ) in the peripheral nervous system .
( 6 ) Hematologic adverse events may occur when vitamin B12 is administered at a dose of 10 μg or more per day in patients with insufficient folic acid .
5 ) Other Precautions for Taking ( 1 ) Keep the prescribed dosage and dosage .
( 2 ) it may interfere with the detection of blood glucose during various urine tests ( 3 ) The urine may turn yellow , which may affect the clinical examination 6 ) Storage Precautions ( 1 ) Keep out of the reach of children .
( 2 ) Avoid direct sunlight .
Store in a cool , dry place .
( 3 ) To prevent misuse ( misuse ) and to preserve quality , please do not put in another container .
Microcrystalline Cellulose , Magnesium Stearate , Crospovidone , Copovidone , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , OY - 25014 , OY - S - 29019 For oral use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
