[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Ranitidine 150 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride USP , 168 mg ) Purpose Acid reducer Use ( s ) • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools . These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is open or torn • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • protect from light • this product is sodium and sugar free Inactive ingredients FD & C red # 40 aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide black , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide .
Questions call 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 Consumer Information What you should know about MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ( Please read all of this information before taking MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg .
Save this leaflet for future reference . )
What are MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ?
• MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg contains 150 mg of ranitidine ( as ranitidine hydrochloride USP , 168 mg ) , a medicine that doctors have prescribed more than 200 million times worldwide .
Excellent Safety Record • The ingredient in MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg , ranitidine , has been prescribed by doctors for years to treat millions of patients safely and effectively .
The active ingredient in MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg has been taken safely with many frequently prescribed medications .
• MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidne Tablets USP , 150 mg are sodium and sugar free .
What symptoms does MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg relieve and prevent ?
• MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg relieve and prevent heartburn associated with acid Indigestion and sour stomach .
Eating or drinking certain foods or beverages , and even lying down to sleep , can cause heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach .
It is normal to the stomach to produce acid , especially after consuming food or beverages .
However , acid in the wrong place , such as the esophagus , or too much acid , can cause burning pain and discomfort .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I take MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ?
• To relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
• To prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn .
This medicine can be used up to twice daily ( up to 2 tablets in 24 hours ) .
• Do not chew tablet .
• MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg should not be given to children under 12 years old unless directed by a doctor .
• Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers .
How does MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg work ?
• MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg reduce the production of stomach acid .
This is what make MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg different from antacids , which neutralize the acid already in your stomach .
Antacids do not reduce the production of acid .
Tips for managing heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • Do not eat late at night , or just before bedtime • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty , and fried foods chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , even some fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • If you are overweight , lose weight • If you smoke , quit smoking • Raise the head of your bed • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach When should I see a doctor ?
Do not Use • If you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartbrun with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
• Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 BOTTLES : Bottle is sealed with printed foil under cap .
Do not use if printed foil is open or torn .
BLISTERS : Do not use if the individual blister unit is open or torn .
Consumer Information TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF FOIL SEAL UNDER CAP PRINTED WITH " SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION " IS BROJEN OR MISSING . IMPORTANT : Read the directions , consumer information leaflet and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label : Container Carton Label : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label : [ MULTIMEDIA ]
