R x Only RIDAURA ® ( auranofin ) contains gold and , like other gold - containing drugs , can cause gold toxicity , signs of which include : fall in hemoglobin , leukopenia below 4 , 000 WBC / cu mm , granulocytes below 1 , 500 / cu mm , decrease in platelets below 150 , 000 / cu mm , proteinuria , hematuria , pruritus , rash , stomatitis or persistent diarrhea .
Therefore , the results of recommended laboratory work ( See PRECAUTIONS ) should be reviewed before writing each RIDAURA prescription .
Like other gold preparations , RIDAURA is only indicated for use in selected patients with active rheumatoid arthritis .
Physicians planning to use RIDAURA should be experienced with chrysotherapy and should thoroughly familiarize themselves with the toxicity and benefits of RIDAURA .
In addition , the following precautions should be routinely employed : • The possibility of adverse reactions should be explained to patients before starting therapy .
• Patients should be advised to report promptly any symptoms suggesting toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS — Information for Patients . )
DESCRIPTION RIDAURA ( auranofin ) is available in oral form as capsules containing 3 mg auranofin .
Auranofin is ( 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 - tetra - O - acetyl - 1 - thio - ß - D - glucopyranosato - S - ) ( triethyl – phosphine ) gold .
Auranofin contains 29 % gold and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each RIDAURA capsule , with opaque brown cap and opaque tan body , contains auranofin , 3 mg , and is imprinted with the product name RIDAURA .
Inactive ingredients consist of benzyl alcohol , cellulose , cetylpyridinium chloride , D & C Red No . 33 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , gelatin , lactose , magnesium stearate , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate , starch , titanium dioxide and trace amounts of other inactive ingredients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanism of action of RIDAURA ( auranofin ) is not understood .
In patients with adult rheumatoid arthritis , RIDAURA may modify disease activity as manifested by synovitis and associated symptoms , and reflected by laboratory parameters such as ESR .
There is no substantial evidence , however , that gold - containing compounds induce remission of rheumatoid arthritis .
Pharmacokinetics : Pharmacokinetic studies were performed in rheumatoid arthritis patients , not in normal volunteers .
Auranofin is rapidly metabolized and intact auranofin has never been detected in the blood .
Thus , studies of the pharmacokinetics of auranofin have involved measurement of gold concentrations .
Approximately 25 % of the gold in auranofin is absorbed .
The mean terminal plasma half - life of auranofin gold at steady state was 26 days ( range 21 to 31 days ; n = 5 ) .
The mean terminal body half - life was 80 days ( range 42 to 128 ; n = 5 ) .
Approximately 60 % of the absorbed gold ( 15 % of the administered dose ) from a single dose of auranofin is excreted in urine ; the remainder is excreted in the feces .
In clinical studies , steady state blood - gold concentrations are achieved in about three months .
In patients on 6 mg auranofin / day , mean steady state blood - gold concentrations were 0 . 68 ± 0 . 45 mcg / mL ( n = 63 patients ) .
In blood , approximately 40 % of auranofin gold is associated with red cells , and 60 % associated with serum proteins .
In contrast , 99 % of injectable gold is associated with serum proteins .
Mean blood - gold concentrations are proportional to dose ; however , no correlation between blood - gold concentrations and safety or efficacy has been established .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE RIDAURA ( auranofin ) is indicated in the management of adults with active classical or definite rheumatoid arthritis ( ARA criteria ) who have had an insufficient therapeutic response to , or are intolerant of , an adequate trial of full doses of one or more nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
RIDAURA should be added to a comprehensive baseline program , including non - drug therapies .
Unlike anti - inflammatory drugs , RIDAURA does not produce an immediate response .
Therapeutic effects may be seen after three to four months of treatment , although improvement has not been seen in some patients before six months .
When cartilage and bone damage has already occurred , gold cannot reverse structural damage to joints caused by previous disease .
The greatest potential benefit occurs in patients with active synovitis , particularly in its early stage .
In controlled clinical trials comparing RIDAURA with injectable gold , RIDAURA was associated with fewer dropouts due to adverse reactions , while injectable gold was associated with fewer dropouts for inadequate or poor therapeutic effect .
Physicians should consider these findings when deciding on the use of RIDAURA in patients who are candidates for chrysotherapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS RIDAURA ( auranofin ) is contraindicated in patients with a history of any of the following gold - induced disorders : anaphylactic reactions , necrotizing enterocolitis , pulmonary fibrosis , exfoliative dermatitis , bone marrow aplasia or other severe hematologic disorders .
WARNINGS Danger signs of possible gold toxicity include fall in hemoglobin , leukopenia below 4 , 000 WBC / cu mm , granulocytes below 1 , 500 / cu mm , decrease in platelets below 150 , 000 / cu mm , proteinuria , hematuria , pruritus , rash , stomatitis or persistent diarrhea .
Thrombocytopenia has occurred in 1 – 3 % of patients ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) treated with RIDAURA ( auranofin ) , some of whom developed bleeding .
The thrombocytopenia usually appears to be peripheral in origin and is usually reversible upon withdrawal of RIDAURA .
Its onset bears no relationship to the duration of RIDAURA therapy and its course may be rapid .
While patients ' platelet counts should normally be monitored at least monthly ( See PRECAUTIONS — Laboratory Tests ) , the occurrence of a precipitous decline in platelets or a platelet count less than 100 , 000 / cu mm or signs and symptoms ( e . g . , purpura , ecchymoses or petechiae ) suggestive of thrombocytopenia indicates a need to immediately withdraw RIDAURA and other therapies with the potential to cause thrombocytopenia , and to obtain additional platelet counts .
No additional RIDAURA should be given unless the thrombocytopenia resolves and further studies show it was not due to gold therapy .
Proteinuria has developed in 3 - 9 % of patients ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) treated with RIDAURA .
If clinically significant proteinuria or microscopic hematuria is found ( See PRECAUTIONS — Laboratory Tests ) , RIDAURA and other therapies with the potential to cause proteinuria or microscopic hematuria should be stopped immediately .
PRECAUTIONS General : The safety of concomitant use of RIDAURA ( auranofin ) with injectable gold , hydroxychloroquine , penicillamine , immunosuppressive agents ( e . g . , cyclophosphamide , azathioprine , or methotrexate ) or high doses of corticosteroids has not been established .
Medical problems that might affect the signs or symptoms used to detect RIDAURA toxicity should be under control before starting RIDAURA ( auranofin ) .
The potential benefits of using RIDAURA in patients with progressive renal disease , significant hepatocellular disease , inflammatory bowel disease , skin rash or history of bone marrow depression should be weighed against 1 ) the potential risks of gold toxicity on organ systems previously compromised or with decreased reserve , and 2 ) the difficulty in quickly detecting and correctly attributing the toxic effect .
The following adverse reactions have been reported with the use of gold preparations and require modification of RIDAURA treatment or additional monitoring .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS for the approximate incidence of those reactions specifically reported with RIDAURA .
Gastrointestinal Reactions : Gastrointestinal reactions reported with gold therapy include diarrhea / loose stools , nausea , vomiting , anorexia and abdominal cramps .
The most common reaction to RIDAURA is diarrhea / loose stools reported in approximately 50 % of the patients .
This is generally manageable by reducing the dosage ( e . g . , from 6 mg daily to 3 mg ) and in only 6 % of the patients is it necessary to discontinue RIDAURA ( auranofin ) permanently .
Ulcerative enterocolitis is a rare serious gold reaction .
Therefore , patients with gastrointestinal symptoms should be monitored for the appearance of gastrointestinal bleeding .
Cutaneous Reactions : Dermatitis is the most common reaction to injectable gold therapy and the second most common reaction to RIDAURA .
Any eruption , especially if pruritic , that develops during treatment should be considered a gold reaction until proven otherwise .
Pruritus often exists before dermatitis becomes apparent , and therefore should be considered to be a warning signal of a cutaneous reaction .
Gold dermatitis may be aggravated by exposure to sunlight or an actinic rash may develop .
The most serious form of cutaneous reaction reported with injectable gold is generalized exfoliative dermatitis .
Mucous Membrane Reactions : Stomatitis , another common gold reaction , may be manifested by shallow ulcers on the buccal membranes , on the borders of the tongue , and on the palate or in the pharynx .
Stomatitis may occur as the only adverse reaction or with a dermatitis .
Sometimes diffuse glossitis or gingivitis develops .
A metallic taste may precede these oral mucous membrane reactions and should be considered a warning signal .
Renal Reactions : Gold can produce a nephrotic syndrome or glomerulitis with proteinuria and hematuria .
These renal reactions are usually relatively mild and subside completely if recognized early and treatment is discontinued .
They may become severe and chronic if treatment is continued after the onset of the reaction .
Therefore it is important to perform urinalyses regularly and to discontinue treatment promptly if proteinuria or hematuria develops .
Hematologic Reactions : Blood dyscrasias including leukopenia , granulocytopenia , thrombocytopenia and aplastic anemia have all been reported as reactions to injectable gold and RIDAURA .
These reactions may occur separately or in combination at anytime during treatment .
Because they have potentially serious consequences , blood dyscrasias should be constantly watched for through regular monitoring ( at least monthly ) of the formed elements of the blood throughout treatment .
Miscellaneous Reactions : Rare reactions attributed to gold include cholestatic jaundice ; gold bronchitis and interstitial pneumonitis and fibrosis ; peripheral neuropathy ; partial or complete hair loss ; fever .
Information for Patients : Patients should be advised of the possibility of toxicity from RIDAURA and of the signs and symptoms that they should report promptly .
( Patient information sheets are available . )
Women of childbearing potential should be warned of the potential risks of RIDAURA therapy during pregnancy ( See PRECAUTIONS — Pregnancy ) .
Laboratory Tests : CBC with differential , platelet count , urinalysis , and renal and liver function tests should be performed prior to RIDAURA ( auranofin ) therapy to establish a baseline and to identify any preexisting conditions .
CBC with differential , platelet count and urinalysis should then be monitored at least monthly ; other parameters should be monitored as appropriate .
Drug Interactions : In a single patient - report , there is the suggestion that concurrent administration of RIDAURA and phenytoin may have increased phenytoin blood levels .
Carcinogenesis / Mutagenesis : In a 24 - month study in rats , animals treated with auranofin at 0 . 4 , 1 . 0 or 2 . 5 mg / kg / day orally ( 3 , 8 or 21 times the human dose ) or gold sodium thiomalate at 2 or 6 mg / kg injected twice weekly ( 4 or 12 times the human dose ) were compared to untreated control animals .
There was a significant increase in the frequency of renal tubular cell karyomegaly and cytomegaly and renal adenoma in the animals treated with 1 . 0 or 2 . 5 mg / kg / day of auranofin and 2 or 6 mg / kg twice weekly of gold sodium thiomalate .
Malignant renal epithelial tumors were seen in the 1 . 0 mg / kg / day and the 2 . 5 mg / kg / day auranofin and in the 6 mg / kg twice weekly gold sodium thiomalate – treated animals .
In a 12 - month study , rats treated with auranofin at 23 mg / kg / day ( 192 times the human dose ) developed tumors of the renal tubular epithelium , whereas those treated with 3 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 30 times the human dose ) did not .
In an 18 - month study in mice given oral auranofin at doses of 1 , 3 and 9 mg / kg / day ( 8 , 24 and 72 times the human dose ) , there was no statistically significant increase above controls in the instances of tumors .
In the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , auranofin at high concentrations ( 313 to 700 ng / mL ) induced increases in the mutation frequencies in the presence of a rat liver microsomal preparation .
Auranofin produced no mutation effects in the Ames test ( Salmonella ) , in the in vitro assay ( Forward and Reverse Mutation Inducement Assay with Saccharomyces ) , in the in vitro transformation of BALB / T3 cell mouse assay or in the Dominant Lethal Assay .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects — Pregnancy Category C . Use of RIDAURA ( auranofin ) by pregnant women is not recommended .
Furthermore , women of childbearing potential should be warned of the potential risks of RIDAURA therapy during pregnancy .
( See below . )
Pregnant rabbits given auranofin at doses of 0 . 5 , 3 or 6 mg / kg / day ( 4 . 2 to 50 times the human dose ) had impaired food intake , decreased maternal weights , decreased fetal weights and an increase above controls in the incidence of resorptions , abortions and congenital abnormalities , mainly abdominal defects such as gastroschisis and umbilical hernia .
Pregnant rats given auranofin at a dose of 5 mg / kg / day ( 42 times the human dose ) had an increase above controls in the incidence of resorptions and a decrease in litter size and weight linked to maternal toxicity .
No such effects were found in rats given 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 21 times the human dose ) .
Pregnant mice given auranofin at a dose of 5 mg / kg / day ( 42 times the human dose ) had no teratogenic effects .
There are no adequate and well - controlled RIDAURA studies in pregnant women .
Nursing Mothers : Nursing during RIDAURA therapy is not recommended .
Following auranofin administration to rats and mice , gold is excreted in milk .
Following the administration of injectable gold , gold appears in the milk of nursing women ; human data on auranofin are not available .
Pediatric Use : RIDAURA ( auranofin ) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients because its safety and effectiveness have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions incidences listed below are based on observations of 1 ) 4 , 784 RIDAURA treated patients in clinical trials ( 2 , 474 U . S . , 2 , 310 foreign ) , of whom 2 , 729 were treated more than one year and 573 for more than three years ; and 2 ) postmarketing experience .
The highest incidence is during the first six months of treatment ; however , reactions can occur after many months of therapy .
With rare exceptions , all patients were on concomitant nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory therapy ; some of them were also taking low dosages of corticosteroids .
Reactions occurring in more than 1 % of RIDAURA - treated patients Gastrointestinal : loose stools or diarrhea ( 47 % ) ; abdominal pain ( 14 % ) ; nausea with or without vomiting ( 10 % ) ; constipation ; anorexia * ; flatulence * ; dyspepsia * ; dysgeusia .
Dermatological : rash ( 24 % ) ; pruritus ( 17 % ) ; hair loss ; urticaria .
Mucous Membrane : stomatitis ( 13 % ) ; conjunctivitis * ; glossitis .
Hematological : anemia ; leukopenia ; thrombocytopenia ; eosinophilia .
Renal : proteinuria * ; hematuria .
Hepatic : elevated liver enzymes .
* Reactions marked with an asterisk occurred in 3 - 9 % of the patients .
The other reactions listed occurred in 1 - 3 % .
Reactions occurring in less than 1 % of RIDAURA - treated patients Gastrointestinal : dysphagia ; gastrointestinal bleeding † ; melena † ; positive stool for occult blood † ; ulcerative enterocolitis .
Dermatological : angioedema .
Mucous Membrane : gingivitis † .
Hematological : aplastic anemia ; neutropenia † ; agranulocytosis ; pure red cell aplasia ; pancytopenia .
Hepatic : jaundice .
Respiratory : interstitial pneumonitis .
Neurological : peripheral neuropathy .
Ocular : gold deposits in the lens or cornea unassociated clinically with eye disorders or visual impairment .
† Reactions marked with a dagger occurred in 0 . 1 - 1 % of the patients .
The other reactions listed occurred in less than 0 . 1 % .
Reactions reported with injectable gold preparations , but not with RIDAURA ( auranofin ) ( based on clinical trials and on postmarketing experience ) Cutaneous Reactions : generalized exfoliative dermatitis Incidence of Adverse Reactions for Specific Categories – 18 Comparative Trials Ridaura ( 445 patients ) Injectable Gold ( 445 patients ) Proteinuria 0 . 9 % 5 . 4 % Rash 26 % 39 % Diarrhea 42 . 5 % 13 % Stomatitis 13 % 18 % Anemia 3 . 1 % 2 . 7 % Leukopenia 1 . 3 % 2 . 2 % Thromocytopenia 0 . 9 % 2 . 2 % Elevated liver function tests 1 . 9 % 1 . 7 % Pulmonary 0 . 2 % 0 . 2 % OVERDOSAGE The acute oral LD50 for auranofin is 310 mg / kg in adult mice and 265 mg / kg in adult rats .
The minimum lethal dose in rats is 30 mg / kg .
In case of acute overdosage , immediate induction of emesis or gastric lavage and appropriate supportive therapy are recommended .
RIDAURA overdosage experience is limited .
A 50 - year - old female , previously on 6 mg RIDAURA daily , took 27 mg ( 9 capsules ) daily for 10 days and developed an encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy .
RIDAURA was discontinued and she eventually recovered .
There has been no experience with treating RIDAURA overdosage with modalities such as chelating agents .
However , they have been used with injectable gold and may be considered for RIDAURA overdosage .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage : The usual adult dosage of RIDAURA ( auranofin ) is 6 mg daily , given either as 3 mg twice daily or 6 mg once daily .
Initiation of therapy at dosages exceeding 6 mg daily is not recommended because it is associated with an increased incidence of diarrhea .
If response is inadequate after six months , an increase to 9 mg ( 3 mg three times daily ) may be tolerated .
If response remains inadequate after a three - month trial of 9 mg daily , RIDAURA therapy should be discontinued .
Safety at dosages exceeding 9 mg daily has not been studied .
Transferring from Injectable Gold : In controlled clinical studies , patients on injectable gold have been transferred to RIDAURA ( auranofin ) by discontinuing the injectable agent and starting oral therapy with RIDAURA , 6 mg daily .
When patients are transferred to RIDAURA , they should be informed of its adverse reaction profile , in particular the gastrointestinal reactions .
( See PRECAUTIONS — Information for Patients . )
At six months , control of disease activity of patients transferred to RIDAURA and those maintained on the injectable agent was not different .
Data beyond six months are not available .
HOW SUPPLIED Capsules , containing 3 mg auranofin , in bottles of 60 .
NDC 54766 - 093 - 06 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
© 2018 Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
All rights reserved .
RIDAURA is a registered trademark of Sebela International Limited Distributed by : Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
645 Hembree Parkway , Suite I Roswell , Georgia 30076 www . sebelapharma . com Toll Free 1 - 844 - 732 - 3521 Revised October 2017 PI 09306001 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 3 mg Bottle Label 3 mg NDC 54766 - 093 - 06 Ridaura ® Auranofin Capsules 60 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 3 mg Carton 3 mg NDC 54766 - 093 - 06 Ridaura ® Auranofin Capsules 60 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ]
