Warnings and Precautions , Aspiration : ( 5 . 7 ) 05 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PLENVU ® is indicated for cleansing of the colon in preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
PLENVU is an osmotic laxative indicated for cleansing of the colon in preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preparation and Administration : • • Two doses of PLENVU are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy , using a “ Two - Day ” or “ One - Day ” dosing regimen .
( 2 . 1 ) • • PLENVU must be reconstituted in water prior to ingestion .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Additional clear liquids must be consumed after each dose of PLENVU in both dosing regimens .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 ) • • Do not take oral medications within 1 hour of starting each dose .
( 2 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) Dosing Regimen : • • Two - Day : Dose 1 the evening before the colonoscopy ( approximately 4 pm to 8 pm ) and Dose 2 the next morning ( approximately12 hours after the start of Dose 1 ) .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • • One - Day : Dose 1 the morning of the colonoscopy ( approximately 3 am to 7 am ) and Dose 2 a minimum of 2 hours after the start of Dose 1 .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • • For complete information on dosing , preparation and administration see full prescribing information .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Preparation and Administration Instructions • • Correct fluid and electrolyte abnormalities before treatment with PLENVU [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Two doses of PLENVU are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy .
The time interval between the two doses depends on the regimen prescribed and the planned timing of the colonoscopy procedure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
• • The “ Two - Day Split - Dosing ” method consists of two separate doses : the first dose is taken the evening before the colonoscopy and the second dose is taken the next day , the morning of the day of the colonoscopy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • The “ One - Day Morning Dosing ” method consists of two separate doses : both doses are taken in the morning of the day of the colonoscopy , with a minimum of 2 hours between the start of the first dose and the start of the second dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• • PLENVU must be reconstituted in the mixing container with water prior to ingestion .
It may take 2 to 3 minutes for complete dissolution .
Do not reconstitute with other liquids and / or add starch - based thickeners to the mixing container [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• • Additional clear liquids ( including water ) must be consumed in both dosing regimens [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Consume only clear liquids ( no solid food ) from the start of PLENVU treatment until after the colonoscopy .
• • Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods containing pulp material .
• • Do not take other laxatives while taking PLENVU .
• • Do not take oral medications within 1 hour before or after starting each dose of PLENVU [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• • Ensure completion of Dose 2 , including all additional liquids , at least 2 hours before the colonoscopy .
2 . 2 Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen The Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen commences in the evening of the day before the colonoscopy .
Instruct adult patients that on the day before the clinical procedure , they can consume a light breakfast followed by a light lunch , which must be completed at least 3 hours prior to the start of the first PLENVU dose .
Instruct patients to take two separate doses in conjunction with clear liquids as follows : Dose 1 – In the evening before the colonoscopy , between approximately 4 pm and 8 pm : • 1 .
Empty the contents of Dose 1 into the mixing container that comes with PLENVU .
• 2 .
Add water to the fill line on the mixing container ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PLENVU solution .
• 3 .
Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until completely dissolved ( which may take 2 to 3 minutes ) .
• 4 .
Drink over the next 30 minutes .
Be sure to drink all of the solution .
• 5 .
Refill the mixing container to the fill line ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) with clear liquids and drink over the next 30 minutes .
• 6 .
Consume additional clear liquids during the evening .
• 7 .
If severe bloating , abdominal distention , or abdominal pain occurs following the first dose , delay the second dose until the symptoms resolve .
Dose 2 – The next morning , on the day of the colonoscopy , approximately 12 hours after the start of Dose 1 ( between approximately 4 am and 8 am ) : • 1 .
Empty the contents of Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B into the mixing container that comes with PLENVU .
• 2 .
Add water to the fill line on the mixing container ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PLENVU solution .
• 3 .
Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until completely dissolved ( which may take 2 to 3 minutes ) .
Drink over the next 30 minutes .
Be sure to drink all of the solution .
• 4 .
Refill the mixing container to the fill line ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) with clear liquids and drink over the next 30 minutes .
• 5 .
Consume additional water or clear liquids up to 2 hours before the colonoscopy or as prescribed by your doctor .
Then stop drinking liquids until after the colonoscopy .
Stop drinking PLENVU temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals if severe bloating , abdominal discomfort or distention occurs , until these symptoms resolve .
2 . 3 One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen The One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen commences in the morning of the day of the colonoscopy .
Instruct adult patients that on the day before the clinical procedure , they can consume a light breakfast followed by a light lunch , and clear broth soup and / or plain yogurt for dinner , which should be completed by approximately 8 pm .
Instruct patients to take two separate doses in conjunction with clear liquids as follows : Dose 1 – On the day of the colonoscopy , between approximately 3 am and 7 am : • 1 .
Empty the contents of Dose 1 into the mixing container that comes with PLENVU .
• 2 .
Add water to the fill line on the mixing container ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PLENVU solution .
• 3 .
Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until completely dissolved ( which may take 2 to 3 minutes ) .
• 4 .
Drink over the next 30 minutes .
Be sure to drink all of the solution .
• 5 .
Refill the mixing container to the fill line ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) with clear liquids and drink over the next 30 minutes .
• 6 .
If severe bloating , abdominal distention , or abdominal pain occurs following the first dose , delay the second dose until the symptoms resolve .
Dose 2 – On the day of the colonoscopy , a minimum of 2 hours after the start of Dose 1 : • 1 .
Empty the contents of Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B into the mixing container that comes with PLENVU .
• 2 .
Add water to the fill line on the mixing container ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PLENVU solution .
• 3 .
Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until completely dissolved ( which may take 2 to 3 minutes ) .
Drink over the next 30 minutes .
Be sure to drink all of the solution .
• 4 .
Refill the mixing container to the fill line ( at least 16 fluid ounces ) with clear liquids and drink over the next 30 minutes .
• 5 .
Consume additional water or clear liquids up to 2 hours before the colonoscopy or as prescribed by your doctor .
Then stop drinking liquids until after the colonoscopy .
Stop drinking PLENVU temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals if severe bloating , abdominal discomfort or distention occurs , until these symptoms resolve .
Storage : After reconstitution , keep PLENVU solution at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The solution may also be stored in a refrigerator .
Use within 24 hours after it is mixed in water .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS PLENVU ( polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride for oral solution ) is supplied as a white to yellow powder for reconstitution .
First dose : one pouch labeled Dose 1 ; Second dose : two pouches labeled Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B . • • Dose 1 contains 100 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , 9 grams of sodium sulfate , 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 gram of potassium chloride .
• • Dose 2 Pouch A contains 40 grams of PEG 3350 , 3 . 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 . 2 grams of potassium chloride .
• • Dose 2 Pouch B contains 48 . 11 grams of sodium ascorbate and 7 . 54 grams of ascorbic acid .
For Oral Solution : First dose : one pouch labeled Dose 1 ; Second dose : two pouches labeled Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B . • • Dose 1 contains 100 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , 9 grams of sodium sulfate , 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 gram of potassium chloride .
( 3 ) • • Dose 2 Pouch A contains 40 grams of PEG 3350 , 3 . 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 . 2 grams of potassium chloride .
( 3 ) • • Dose 2 Pouch B contains 48 . 11 grams of sodium ascorbate and 7 . 54 grams of ascorbic acid .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PLENVU is contraindicated in the following conditions : • • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Bowel perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Gastric retention • • Ileus • • Toxic megacolon • • Hypersensitivity to any ingredient in PLENVU [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • • Bowel perforation ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • • Ileus ( 4 ) • • Toxic megacolon ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to any ingredient in PLENVU ( 4 , 5 . 10 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities : Encourage adequate hydration , assess concurrent medications , and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • • Cardiac arrhythmias : Consider pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Seizures : Use caution in patients with a history of seizures and patients at increased risk of seizure , including medications that lower the seizure threshold .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • • Patients with renal impairment or taking concomitant medications that affect renal function : Use caution , ensure adequate hydration and consider testing .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) • • Mucosal ulcerations : Consider potential for mucosal ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Suspected GI obstruction or perforation : Rule out diagnosis before administration .
( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • • Patients at risk for aspiration : Observe during administration .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ( G6PD ) : Use with caution .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Risks in patients with phenylketonuria : Contains phenylalanine .
( 5 . 9 ) • • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis : Inform patients to seek immediate medical care if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before , during , and after the use of PLENVU .
If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking PLENVU , consider performing post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) .
Bowel Preparations can cause fluid and electrolyte disturbances , which can lead to serious adverse reactions including cardiac arrhythmias , seizures , and renal impairment .
Correct fluid and electrolyte abnormalities before treatment with PLENVU .
PLENVU should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [ such as diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) ] [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Consider performing pre - dose and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( sodium , potassium , calcium , creatinine , and BUN ) in patients receiving these concomitant medications .
5 . 2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation ) associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation .
These occur predominantly in patients with underlying cardiac risk factors and electrolyte disturbances .
Use caution when prescribing PLENVU for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias ( e . g . , patients with a history of prolonged QT , uncontrolled arrhythmias , recent myocardial infarction , unstable angina , congestive heart failure , cardiomyopathy or electrolyte imbalance ) .
Consider pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias .
5 . 3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic - clonic seizures and / or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures .
The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia ) and low serum osmolality .
The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Use caution when prescribing PLENVU for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure , such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants ) , patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines , or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Use PLENVU with caution in patients with renal impairment or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function ( such as diuretics , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
These patients may be at risk for renal injury .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before , during and after the use of PLENVU , and consider performing pre - dose and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Colonic Mucosal Ulceration , Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations , and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization .
Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PLENVU may increase the risk and is not recommended .
Consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering PLENVU [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Use with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis .
5 . 7 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex or other swallowing abnormalities are at risk for regurgitation or aspiration of PLENVU .
Observe these patients during the administration of PLENVU .
Use with caution in these patients .
Do not combine PLENVU with starch - based thickeners [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) , a component of PLENVU , when mixed with starch - thickened liquids reduces the viscosity of the starch - thickened liquid .
When a PEG - based product used for another indication was mixed in starch - based pre - thickened liquids used in patients with dysphagia , thinning of the liquid occurred and cases of choking and potential aspiration were reported .
5 . 8 Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) Deficiency Since PLENVU contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid , PLENVU should be used with caution in patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency , especially G6PD deficiency patients with an active infection , with a history of hemolysis , or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions .
5 . 9 Risks in Patients with Phenylketonuria Phenylalanine can be harmful to patients with phenylketonuria ( PKU ) .
PLENVU contains phenylalanine , a component of aspartame .
Each PLENVU treatment contains 491 mg of phenylalanine .
Before prescribing PLENVU to a patient with PKU , consider the combined daily amount of phenylalanine from all sources , including PLENVU .
5 . 10 Hypersensitivity Reactions PLENVU contains PEG and may cause serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , rash , urticaria , and pruritus [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis , and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious or otherwise important adverse reactions for bowel preparations are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Cardiac Arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Patients with Renal Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Colonic Mucosal Ulceration , Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Aspiration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Risks in Patients with Phenylketonuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) are nausea , vomiting , dehydration and abdominal pain / discomfort .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Salix Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of PLENVU as a Two - Day Split - Dosing and One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen was evaluated in two randomized , parallel group , multicenter , investigator - blinded clinical trials ( Two - Day Split - Dosing in the NOCT and MORA trials and One - Day Morning Dosing in the MORA trial ) in 1351 adult patients undergoing colonoscopy .
The mean age of the study population was 56 years ( range 18 to 86 years ) , 92 % of patients were Caucasian and 51 % were female .
In the NOCT trial , 61 % of patients had mild renal impairment .
In the MORA trial , 67 % had mild renal impairment and 5 % had moderate renal impairment .
Patients with severe renal impairment were not enrolled in the clinical trials of PLENVU [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) in the PLENVU treatment groups in both trials were : nausea , vomiting , dehydration and abdominal pain / discomfort .
Table 1 and Table 2 display adverse reactions reported in at least 1 % of patients in one or more treatment group ( s ) in the NOCT and MORA trials , respectively .
Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy assessment , it was not defined as an adverse reaction in these trials .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions * in Patients Undergoing Colonoscopy in the NOCT Trial by Treatment GroupPreferred Term PLENVU Two - Day Split Dosing Regimen ( N = 275 ) % Trisulfate [ 1 ] Two - Day Split Dosing Regimen ( N = 271 ) % Nausea 7 2 Vomiting 6 3 Dehydration [ 2 ] 4 2 Abdominal Pain / Discomfort [ 3 ] 2 2 Decline in Glomerular Filtration Rate ( GFR ) [ 4 ] 2 2 Electrolyte Abnormalities [ 5 ] 2 1 Fatigue 2 1 Headache 2 1 Abdominal Distension 1 1 Gastritis 1 1 Hiatus Hernia 1 0 Nasopharyngitis 1 1 * Reported in at least 1 % of patients in either treatment group N = Total number of patients in the treatment group [ 1 ] Trisulfate : Two 6 ounce bottles of oral solution each containing sodium sulfate 17 . 5 grams , potassium sulfate 3 . 13 grams , magnesium sulfate 1 . 6 grams [ 2 ] Includes signs and symptoms of dehydration , including dizziness , dry mouth , orthostatic hypotension , pre - syncope , syncope and thirst [ 3 ] Includes abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , lower abdominal pain , upper abdominal pain , and abdominal tenderness [ 4 ] Decreased or abnormal GFR [ 5 ] Includes increased anion gap , decreased blood bicarbonate , hypomagnesemia , hyperosmolarity , hypokalemia , hyperkalemia , hypercalcemia , hypernatremia , hyperosmolar state , hyperuricemia , hypocalcemia , and hypophosphatemia Table 2 : Common Adverse Reactions * in Patients Undergoing Colonoscopy in the MORA Trial by Treatment GroupPreferred Term PLENVU One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen ( N = 271 ) % PLENVU Two - Day Split Dosing Regimen ( N = 265 ) % 2 Liter PEG + Electrolytes Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen [ 1 ] ( N = 269 ) % Vomiting 7 4 1 Nausea 6 6 3 Dehydration [ 2 ] 4 3 2 Abdominal Pain / Discomfort [ 3 ] 3 2 3 Hypertension 2 1 0 Headache 1 2 2 Electrolyte Abnormalities [ 4 ] 1 1 0 * Reported in at least 1 % of patients in either treatment group N = Total number of patients in the treatment group [ 1 ] 2 Liter PEG Plus Electrolytes : Two doses each containing PEG 3350 100 grams , sodium sulfate 7 . 5 grams , sodium chloride 2 . 691 grams , potassium chloride 1 . 015 grams , sodium ascorbate 5 . 9 grams , and ascorbic acid 4 . 7 grams [ 2 ] Includes signs and symptoms of dehydration , including dizziness , dry mouth , orthostatic hypotension , pre - syncope , syncope , and thirst [ 3 ] Includes abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , lower abdominal pain , upper abdominal pain , and abdominal tenderness [ 4 ] Includes increased anion gap , decreased blood bicarbonate , hypomagnesemia , increased blood osmolarity , hypokalemia , hyperkalemia , hypercalcemia , hypernatremia , hyperosmolar state , hyperuricemia , hypocalcemia , and hypophosphatemia Electrolyte Changes Increases in serum sodium , chloride , calcium , magnesium , phosphate , and urate were noted in more patients treated with PLENVU compared with control in one or both trials .
The majority of these changes were transient and not clinically significant .
Associated decreases in bicarbonate and increases in serum osmolality were also noted .
Renal Function Decreases in creatinine clearance and increases in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) were also noted in more patients treated with PLENVU compared to control in both trials .
Changes of a magnitude indicative of possible acute renal injury , or worsening of baseline chronic renal impairment , were noted infrequently and occurred at a similar incidence in both PLENVU and comparator arms .
Adverse reactions in patients with mild renal impairment were similar to those in patients with normal renal function .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Less common adverse reactions ( less than 1 % ) in the NOCT and MORA trials include : anorectal discomfort , hypersensitivity reaction ( including rash ) , migraine , somnolence , asthenia , chills , pains , aches , palpitation , sinus tachycardia , hot flush , and transient increase in liver enzymes .
An additional 235 patients were exposed to the One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen of PLENVU in a third clinical trial , utilizing a comparator not approved in the United States .
The adverse reaction profile for patients receiving PLENVU in that trial was similar to what is described above .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of another oral formulation of polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride or other polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) - based bowel preparations .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity : urticaria / rash , pruritus , dermatitis , rhinorrhea dyspnea , chest and throat tightness , fever , angioedema , anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , atrial fibrillation , peripheral edema , asystole , and acute pulmonary edema after aspiration Gastrointestinal : upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory - Weiss tear , esophageal perforation [ usually with gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) ] Nervous system : tremor , seizure 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte change .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing PLENVU for patients with conditions and / or who are using medications that increase the risk of fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of renal impairment , seizures , arrhythmias , or QT prolongation in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate .
7 . 2 Potential for Reduced Drug Absorption PLENVU can reduce the absorption of other coadministered drugs .
Administer oral medications at least 1 hour before the start of administration of each dose of PLENVU [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PLENVU may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis .
Avoid use of stimulant laxatives ( e . g . , bisacodyl , sodium picosulfate ) while taking PLENVU [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data with PLENVU in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PLENVU .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available to assess the presence of PLENVU in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child or the effects on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of PLENVU to a child during lactation ; therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for PLENVU and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from PLENVU or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of PLENVU in pediatric patients has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the approximately 1000 patients in clinical trials receiving PLENVU , 217 ( 21 % ) patients were over 65 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between geriatric patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between geriatric patients and younger patients .
However , elderly patients are more likely to have decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and may be more susceptible to adverse reactions resulting from fluid and electrolyte abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Use PLENVU with caution in patients with renal impairment or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
These patients may be at risk for renal injury .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before , during and after the use of PLENVU , and consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of more than the recommended dose of PLENVU may lead to severe electrolyte disturbances , as well as dehydration and hypovolemia , with signs and symptoms of these disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor for fluid and electrolyte disturbances and treat symptomatically .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredients contained in PLENVU are provided in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Details of Active Ingredients contained in PLENVUChemical Name Chemical Formula Average Molecular Weight ( g / mol ) Chemical Structure Polyethylene Glycol ( PEG ) 3350 H - ( OCH2 - CH2 ) n - OH 3350 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Ascorbate C6H7NaO6 198 . 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Sulfate Na2SO4 142 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ascorbic Acid C6H8O6 176 . 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Chloride NaCl 58 . 4 Na + Cl - Potassium Chloride KCl 74 . 6 K + Cl + PLENVU ( polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride for oral solution ) is an osmotic laxative consisting of three pouches ( one for Dose 1 , one for Dose 2 Pouch A and one for Dose 2 Pouch B ) containing white to yellow powder for reconstitution .
Dose 1 contains 100 grams of PEG 3350 , 9 grams of sodium sulfate , 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 gram of potassium chloride , and the following excipients : sucralose , encapsulated citric acid and mango flavoring .
When Dose 1 is dissolved in water to a volume of 16 fluid ounces , PLENVU Dose 1 ( PEG 3350 , sodium sulfate , sodium chloride and potassium chloride ) is an oral solution having a mango flavor .
Each Dose 2 Pouch A contains 40 grams of PEG 3350 , 3 . 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 . 2 grams of potassium chloride , and the following excipients : aspartame and fruit punch flavoring .
Each Dose 2 Pouch B contains 48 . 11 grams of sodium ascorbate and 7 . 54 grams of ascorbic acid .
When Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B are dissolved together in water to a volume of 16 fluid ounces , PLENVU Dose 2 ( sodium ascorbate , PEG 3350 , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride ) is an oral solution having a fruit punch flavor .
The entire , reconstituted , 32 fluid ounces of PLENVU bowel preparation contains 140 grams of PEG 3350 , 48 . 11 grams of sodium ascorbate , 9 grams of sodium sulfate , 7 . 54 grams of ascorbic acid , 5 . 2 grams of sodium chloride and 2 . 2 grams of potassium chloride and the following excipients : aspartame , sucralose , encapsulated citric acid , mango and fruit punch flavorings .
A mixing container for reconstitution is enclosed .
Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 491 mg per treatment .
Contains no ingredient made from a gluten - containing grain ( wheat , barley , or rye ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary mode of action is osmotic action of the components of PLENVU ( PEG 3350 plus sodium sulfate components in Dose 1 , and sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid plus PEG 3350 components in Dose 2 ) which induce the laxative effect .
The physiological consequence is increased water retention in the lumen of the colon , resulting in loose stools .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The osmotic effect of the unabsorbed PEG , ascorbate and sulfate ions , when ingested , produces a copious watery diarrhea .
The first bowel movement may happen about 1 to 2 hours after the start of PLENVU intake .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The plasma pharmacokinetic parameters for PEG 3350 , ascorbate and sulfate are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Plasma Pharmacokinetic Data Following Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen of 140 grams PEG 3350 , 33 . 9 grams Sodium Ascorbate , 9 grams Sodium Sulfate , 20 . 1 grams Ascorbic Acid , 4 . 8 grams Sodium Chloride and 2 . 3 grams Potassium Chloride in Healthy Subjects [ 1 ] ( N = 21 ) [ 2 ] SD = standard deviation ; Cmax = maximum concentration ; tmax = time to maximum concentration from start of dosing ; AUC ( 0 - tlast ) = area under the curve from t0 to tlast ; Vd = volume of distribution ; t1 / 2 = half - life .
PK Parameter PEG 3350 Mean ( SD ) Ascorbate [ 3 ] Mean ( SD ) Sulfate null Mean ( SD ) Cmax [ mcg / mL ] 2 . 7 ( 1 . 17 ) 70 . 8 ( 22 . 37 ) 17 . 6 ( 4 . 80 ) tmax [ h ] 3 . 0 ( 0 . 61 ) 16 . 8 ( 0 . 75 ) 8 . 1 ( 5 . 51 ) AUC ( 0 - tlast ) [ ( mcg / mL ) * h ] 17 . 3 ( 7 . 19 ) 433 . 1 ( 157 . 29 ) 206 . 2 ( 74 . 32 ) Vd [ l ] 48 , 481 ( 29 , 811 ) 1 , 026 ( 675 ) 231 ( 205 ) t1 / 2 [ h ] 4 . 1 ( 2 . 34 ) 7 . 2 ( 6 . 16 ) 10 . 5 ( 15 . 19 ) [ 1 ] Four - day study with controlled diet including fasting from 2 pm on Day 1 to 2 pm on Day 2 .
[ 2 ] Product studied contains the same amount of PEG 3350 and sodium sulfate , although the amount of sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid are slightly different , compared to PLENVU .
[ 3 ] Baseline - corrected A pharmacokinetic study measured up to 85 % to 99 % of a 140 grams oral PEG 3350 dose in excreted feces .
A pharmacokinetic study measured up to 69 % of a 50 grams oral ascorbate dose in excreted feces and up to 5 % of the 50 grams oral ascorbate dose is recovered in the urine ( with up to 0 . 07 % as the ascorbate metabolite , oxalic acid ) .
Sulfate is endogenous and also present in the diet .
A pharmacokinetic study measured up to 69 % to 73 % of a 9 grams oral sodium sulfate dose in excreted feces , with approximately 43 % recovered in the urine .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Study Design The colon cleansing efficacy , safety and tolerability of PLENVU was evaluated in two randomized , parallel - group , multicenter , investigator - blinded trials in adult patients scheduled to undergo a screening , surveillance , or diagnostic colonoscopy .
The overall patient population consisted of 49 % male and 51 % female patients , mean age of 56 years ( range 18 to 86 years ) , 92 % Caucasian , 5 % Black and 2 % Asian .
In general , the demographic characteristics were balanced across the trials .
In Study NER1006 - 01 / 2014 ( referred to as NOCT ; NCT02254486 ) and Study NER1006 - 02 / 2014 ( referred to as MORA ; NCT02273167 ) , the bowel cleansing efficacy of PLENVU was compared to two different comparators ( Table 5 ) using two different PLENVU dosing regimen ( s ) : • • PLENVU Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen allows for an overnight gap between doses ( Dose 1 taken in the evening before the colonoscopy , between approximately 4 pm and 8 pm , and Dose 2 the next morning , on the day of the colonoscopy , approximately 12 hours after the start of Dose 1 ) .
• • PLENVU One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen gives both doses the morning of the day of colonoscopy ( Dose 1 between approximately 3 am and 7 am , and Dose 2 a minimum of 2 hours after the start of Dose 1 ) .
Table 5 : Treatment Regimens by TrialTrial PLENVU Regimen ( s ) Comparator Regimens NOCT Two - Day Split - Dosing Trisulfate bowel cleansing solution administered as a Two - Day Split ‑ Dosing Regimen : • • [ Trisulfate ( Two 6 ounce bottles each containing sodium sulfate 17 . 5 grams , potassium sulfate 3 . 13 grams , and magnesium sulfate 1 . 6 grams ) ] MORA Two - Day Split - Dosing and One - Day Morning Dosing 2 liter PEG + electrolytes ( 2 L PEG + E ) preparation administered as a Two - Day Split ‑ Dosing Regimen : • • Two doses , each containing PEG 3350 100 grams , sodium sulfate 7 . 5 grams , sodium chloride 2 . 691 grams , potassium chloride 1 . 015 grams , sodium ascorbate 5 . 9 grams , and ascorbic acid 4 . 7 grams Primary Endpoint The primary efficacy endpoint in both trials was the proportion of patients achieving “ overall bowel cleansing success , ” which was defined by a result of Grade A or B ( Grades A or B [ see Table 6 ] corresponding to full visualization of the bowel mucosa on the Harefield Cleansing Scale [ HCS ] ) , as assessed on withdrawal of colonoscope .
The HCS segmental scores were initially evaluated by the colonoscopist at the site , who was blinded to treatment , and evaluated for endpoint analysis by central readers ( gastroenterologists ) using video recordings of the colonoscopy .
Table 6 : Harefield Cleansing Scale * Colon ascendens , Colon transversum , Colon descendens , Colon sigmoideum , Rectum Overall Grade Description A All five segments * scored 3 or 4 ( Mucosa is fully visualized without cleaning . )
B One or more segments scored 2 , remaining segments scored 3 or 4 ( Mucosa is fully visualized . )
C One or more segments scored 1 , remaining segments scored 2 , 3 or 4 D One or more segments scored 0 Segmental Score Description 4 Empty and clean 3 Clear liquid 2 Brown liquid / fully removable semisolid stools 1 Semisolid , only partially removable stools 0 Irremovable , heavy , hard stools Statistical Analysis The modified Intent - to - Treat ( mITT ) population was used as the primary population for the efficacy analyses and was defined as all randomized patients with the exception of any patient who ( i ) was randomized but subsequently failed to meet entry criteria and ( ii ) in whom it was confirmed ( from their patient diary ) that the same patient did not receive any study drug .
Non - inferiority was assessed using a one - sided 97 . 5 % confidence interval ( CI ) for the difference in proportions of patients for the overall bowel cleansing success endpoint .
Non - inferiority was demonstrated if the difference between PLENVU and the comparator was above the predefined non - inferiority margin set at - 10 % .
Efficacy Results The results for the overall bowel cleansing success endpoint in the mITT population in NOCT are shown in Table 7 .
The Two - Day Split - Dosing regimen of PLENVU was shown to be non - inferior ( NI ) to the trisulfate solution comparator .
Table 7 : Overall Bowel Cleansing Success Rate of PLENVU versus Trisulfate in NOCTPrimary Endpoint ( N = 556 ) PLENVU Two - Day Split - Dosing ( N = 276 ) n ( % = n / N * 100 ) Trisulfate Two - Day Split - Dosing ( N = 280 ) n ( % = n / N * 100 ) PLENVU ® - Trisulfate Difference ( % ) ( 97 . 5 % One - Sided Lower Confidence Interval ) Overall Colon Cleansing Success Rate 235 ( 85 . 1 % ) 238 ( 85 . 0 % ) 0 . 1 % ( - 8 . 2 % ) The results for the overall bowel cleansing success endpoint in the mITT population in MORA are shown in Table 8 .
Both the PLENVU Two - Day Split - Dosing regimen and the PLENVU One - Day Morning Dosing regimen were shown to be non - inferior ( NI ) to the 2 L PEG + E treatment comparator .
Table 8 : Overall Bowel Cleansing Success Rate of PLENVU versus 2 L PEG + E in MORAPrimary Endpoint ( N = 822 ) PLENVU Two - Day Split - Dosing ( N = 275 ) n ( % = n / N * 100 ) PLENVU One - Day Morning Dosing ( N = 275 ) n ( % = n / N * 100 ) 2 L PEG + E Two - Day Split - Dosing ( N = 272 ) n ( % = n / N * 100 ) PLENVU ® Regimen - 2 L PEG + E Difference ( % ) ( 97 . 5 % One - Sided Lower Confidence Interval ) Overall Colon Cleansing Success Rate 253 ( 92 . 0 % ) 245 ( 89 . 1 % ) 238 ( 87 . 5 % ) Two - Day Split - Dosing 4 . 5 % ( - 4 . 0 % ) One - Day Morning Dosing 1 . 6 % ( - 6 . 9 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PLENVU ( polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride for oral solution ) is supplied as a white to yellow powder for reconstitution .
Dose 1 contains 100 grams of PEG 3350 , 9 grams of sodium sulfate , 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 gram of potassium chloride : NDC 65649 - 400 - 01 .
Dose 2 Pouch A contains 40 grams of PEG 3350 , 3 . 2 grams of sodium chloride , and 1 . 2 grams of potassium chloride : NDC 65649 - 400 - 01 .
Dose 2 Pouch B contains 48 . 11 grams of sodium ascorbate and 7 . 54 grams of ascorbic acid : NDC 65649 - 400 - 01 .
PLENVU , single - use inner carton : The inner carton contains three pouches labeled Dose 1 , Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B : NDC 65649 - 400 - 01 .
PLENVU , single - use outer carton : Each outer carton contains the inner carton , prescribing information and patient information and a disposable mixing container with lid for reconstitution of PLENVU : NDC 65649 - 400 - 01 .
Storage Store pack at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted to 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The pack may be stored in a refrigerator .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) .
Instruct patients : • • That two doses of PLENVU are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy either as a Two - Day Split - Dosing or One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen [ see Instructions for Use ] .
• • Not to take other laxatives while they are taking PLENVU .
• • That PLENVU contains 491 mg of phenylalanine per treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• • That each pouch needs to be reconstituted in water before ingestion and that they should drink additional clear liquids .
Examples of clear liquids can be found in the Instructions for Use .
• • Not to take oral medications within one hour of starting each dose of PLENVU .
• • To follow the directions in the Instructions for Use , for either the Two - Day Split - Dosing or the One - Day Morning Dosing Regimen , as prescribed .
• • To consume additional clear liquids before , during , and after the use of PLENVU to prevent dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • To contact their healthcare provider if they develop significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking PLENVU or if they experience altered consciousness or seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods containing pulp material .
• • To stop drinking PLENVU temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals if they develop severe abdominal discomfort or distention until these symptoms diminish .
If severe symptoms persist , tell patients to contact their healthcare provider .
Distributed by : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Norgine Limited 7 Tir - y - berth Industrial Estate New Road , Tir - y - berth Hengoed , CF82 8 SJ United Kingdom ( GBR ) U . S . Patent Numbers : 8 , 999 , 313 ; 9 , 326 , 969 ; 9 , 592 , 252 ; 9 , 707 , 297 ; 10 , 016 , 504 ; 10 , 646 , 512 ; 10 , 780 , 112 and 10 , 792 , 306 PLENVU is a registered trademark of the Norgine group of companies used under license .
© 2021 Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates 9643002 70015340 Medication Guide MEDICATION GUIDE PLENVU ® ( plen - vu ) ( polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride for oral solution ) Read this Medication Guide and Instructions for Use before your colonoscopy and again before you start taking PLENVU .
What is the most important information I should know about PLENVU ?
PLENVU and other bowel preparations can cause serious side effects , including : • • Serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) in your blood .
These changes can cause : • oabnormal heartbeats that can cause death .
• oseizures .
This can happen even if you have never had a seizure .
• okidney problems .
Your chance of having fluid loss and changes in body salts with PLENVU is higher if you : • • • have heart problems .
• • have kidney problems .
• • take water pills ( diuretics ) , high blood pressure medicine or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms of serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) while taking PLENVU : • • vomiting • • dizziness • • urinating less often than normal • • headache See “ What are the possible side effects of PLENVU ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is PLENVU ?
PLENVU is a prescription medicine used by adults to clean the colon before a colonoscopy .
PLENVU cleans your colon by causing you to have diarrhea ( loose stools ) .
Cleaning your colon helps your healthcare provider see the inside of your colon more clearly during your colonoscopy .
It is not known if PLENVU is safe and effective in children .
Do not take PLENVU if your healthcare provider has told you that you have : • • a blockage in your intestine ( bowel obstruction ) .
• • an opening in the wall of your stomach or intestine ( bowel perforation ) .
• • problems with food and fluid emptying from your stomach ( gastric retention ) .
• • a problem with food moving too slowly through your intestines ( ileus ) .
• • a very dilated intestine ( toxic megacolon ) .
• • an allergy to any of the ingredients in PLENVU .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in PLENVU .
Before taking PLENVU , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have problems with serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) .
• • have heart problems .
• • have seizures or take medicines for seizures .
• • have kidney problems or take medicines for kidney problems .
• • have stomach or bowel problems , including ulcerative colitis .
• • have problems with swallowing , gastric reflux or if you inhale food or fluid into your lungs when eating or drinking ( aspirate ) .
• • have a condition called glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency that destroys red blood cells .
• • are withdrawing from drinking alcohol .
• • have phenylketonuria ( PKU ) .
PLENVU contains phenylalanine .
• • are allergic to any of the ingredients in PLENVU .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if PLENVU will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if PLENVU passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take PLENVU while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
PLENVU may affect how other medicines work .
Do not take medicines by mouth 1 hour before or after starting each dose of PLENVU .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • medicines to treat a blood salt ( electrolyte ) imbalance .
• • medicines for blood pressure or heart problems .
• • medicines for seizures ( antiepileptics ) .
• • medicines for kidney problems .
• • water pills ( diuretics ) .
• • non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
• • laxatives .
Do not take other laxatives while taking PLENVU .
• • medicines for depression or other mental health problems .
• • starch based thickeners .
For patients who have trouble swallowing , do not mix PLENVU with starch - based thickeners Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if you are taking any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take PLENVU ?
See the Instructions for Use for dosing instructions .
You must read , understand , and follow these instructions to take PLENVU the right way .
• • Take PLENVU exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Your healthcare provider will tell you to take the Two - Day Split - Dosing option or the One - Day Morning Dosing option .
• • Drink clear liquids before , during , and after you take PLENVU , up until 2 hours before your colonoscopy , to help prevent fluid loss ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salt ( electrolyte ) levels .
• • Do not eat solid food while taking PLENVU until after your colonoscopy .
• • It is important for you to drink the additional amount of clear liquids listed in the Instructions for Use .
• • You may have stomach - area ( abdomen ) bloating after your first dose of PLENVU .
• oIf you have severe stomach - area ( abdomen ) discomfort or bloating , stop drinking PLENVU for a short time or wait a longer time between each dose of PLENVU until your stomach - area symptoms improve .
If your stomach ‑ area discomfort or bloating continues , tell your healthcare provider .
• • Your first bowel movement may happen about 1 to 2 hours after you start taking PLENVU .
• • If you take too much PLENVU , call your healthcare provider .
What are the possible side effects of PLENVU ?
PLENVU can cause serious side effects including : • • Changes in certain blood tests .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests after you take PLENVU to check your blood for changes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any symptoms of too much fluid loss , including : • ovomiting • odizziness • oheart problems • okidney problems • oseizures • odry mouth • ofeel faint , weak or lightheaded especially when you stand up ( orthostatic hypotension ) • • Ulcers of the bowel or bowel problems ( ischemic colitis ) : Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have severe stomach - area ( abdomen ) pain or rectal bleeding .
• • Serious allergic reactions .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include : • oskin rash • oitching • oraised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • oswelling of the face , lips , tongue and throat • okidney problems The most common side effects of PLENVU include : • • nausea • • vomiting • • dehydration • • stomach pain or discomfort These are not all the possible side effects of PLENVU .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store PLENVU ?
• • Store PLENVU ( before opening and after mixed ) at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
PLENVU ( before opening and after mixed ) may also be stored in a refrigerator .
• • Use PLENVU within 24 hours after mixing with water .
Keep PLENVU and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of PLENVU .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use PLENVU for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give PLENVU to other people , even if they are going to have the same procedure you are .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in PLENVU ?
Active ingredient : Dose 1 : PEG 3350 , sodium sulfate , sodium chloride , potassium chloride Dose 2 Pouch A : PEG 3350 , sodium chloride , potassium chloride Dose 2 Pouch B : sodium ascorbate , ascorbic acid Inactive ingredients : Dose 1 : sucralose , encapsulated citric acid , mango flavoring Dose 2 Pouch A : aspartame , fruit punch flavoring Distributed by : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Norgine Limited 7 Tir - y - berth Industrial Estate New Road , Tir - y - berth Hengoed , CF82 8 SJ United Kingdom ( GBR ) U . S . Patent Numbers : 8 , 999 , 313 ; 9 , 326 , 969 ; 9 , 592 , 252 ; 9 , 707 , 297 ; 10 , 016 , 504 ; 10 , 646 , 512 ; 10 , 780 , 112 and 10 , 792 , 306 PLENVU is a registered trademark of the Norgine group of companies used under license .
© 2021 Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates For more information , go to www . PLENVU . com or call 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 05 / 2021 9643002 70015340 Instructions for Use PLENVU ® ( plen - vu ) ( polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride for oral solution ) There are two different options for taking PLENVU .
Your healthcare provider will tell you to take the Two - Day Split - Dosing option or the One - Day Morning Dosing option .
The following are provided with the pack : • • An outer carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • An inner carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • A mixing container with removable lid : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Prescribing Information and Patient Information [ MULTIMEDIA ] The inner carton contains : • • Dose 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B ( to be taken together ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional supplies ( not included in the pack ) : • • Water ( to mix with PLENVU ) .
• • Scissors ( optional to cut the pouches on the dotted line ) .
• • Spoon ( optional to mix the water and PLENVU together .
You can also mix the water and PLENVU by putting the lid on securely and shaking it .
See step 1 c below ) .
Important Information on PLENVU : • • You must drink all of Dose 1 ( one pouch ) and Dose 2 ( two pouches ) of PLENVU for either dosing option .
Make sure you finish Dose 2 at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
Do not add any other ingredients to PLENVU .
• • Do not mix PLENVU with starch - based thickeners .
• • PLENVU must be mixed with water .
• • Drink clear liquids before , during , and after you take PLENVU , up until 2 hours before your colonoscopy , to help prevent fluid loss ( dehydration ) , and changes in blood salt ( electrolyte ) levels .
It is important for you to drink the additional amount of clear liquids listed here in the Instructions for Use .
Examples of clear liquids are : • • owater • oclear broth soups • oherbal tea , black tea or coffee • owatered down ( diluted ) ( from concentrate ) clear fruit juices ( without pulp ) including apple juice or white grape juice • oclear soda • ogelatin ( without added fruit or topping ) • opopsicles ( without pieces of fruit or fruit pulp ) • ostrained limeade or lemonade • • Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any foods that have pulp .
• • Do not take other laxatives while taking PLENVU .
• • Do not take any medicines by mouth ( oral ) within 1 hour before or after starting each dose of PLENVU .
• • Do not eat solid food while taking PLENVU until after your colonoscopy .
• • For the Two - Day Split - Dosing schedule : • oOn the day before the colonoscopy you can eat a light breakfast followed by a light lunch .
• oYou must finish eating lunch at least 3 hours before you start taking PLENVU .
• oAfter you start taking PLENVU you can only drink clear liquids .
• • For the One - Day Morning Dosing schedule : • oOn the day before the colonoscopy you can eat a light breakfast followed by a light lunch .
For dinner you may have clear broth soup or plain yogurt .
• oYou should finish dinner by about 8 pm .
• oAfter you start taking PLENVU you can only drink clear liquids .
• • Do not eat the morning of your colonoscopy .
Two - Day Split - Dosing Schedule Take Dose 1 in the evening sometime between 4 pm and 8 pm .
Take Dose 2 the next morning , on the day of the colonoscopy .
This should be about 12 hours ( between about 4 am and 8 am ) after you started Dose 1 .
Make sure you finish Dose 2 at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
Follow Step 1 to Step 3 on how to mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely and take PLENVU : • Step 1 a : Empty Dose 1 into the mixing container that comes with your PLENVU .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 1 b : Add water to the fill line .
You will need to add at least 16 ounces .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 1 c : Mix the water and PLENVU together with a spoon or put lid on mixing container securely and shake the water and PLENVU , until it is completely dissolved .
This can take 2 to 3 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 2 : Drink the entire contents of the mixing container over the next 30 minutes .
• If you feel like you have severe stomach pain or discomfort you can stop taking PLENVU for a short time and then continue taking it or you can take smaller sips of PLENVU so that you space out your dose longer than 30 minutes .
If you still have severe stomach pain , call your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 3 : Rinse the mixing container with water .
Refill to the fill line with clear liquids .
This will be at least 16 ounces .
Drink the entire contents of the mixing container over the next 30 minutes .
Continue to drink additional clear liquids during the evening as this is important to help avoid dehydration .
For a list of clear liquids , see examples at the top of the Instructions for Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • After taking PLENVU if you have any bloating or feeling like your stomach is upset , wait to take Dose 2 until your stomach feels better .
For Dose 2 : Rinse the mixing container with water .
Repeat Steps 1 , 2 and 3 but this time for Dose 2 you will empty two dose pouches ( Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B ) into the mixing container at the same time .
After drinking your 16 ounces of water mixed with PLENVU and the 16 ounces of the clear liquids , it is important that you drink additional clear liquids to help avoid dehydration .
For a list of clear liquids , see examples at the top of the Instructions for Use .
You must stop drinking all liquids at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] One - Day Morning Dosing Schedule Take Dose 1 the morning of your colonoscopy sometime between 3 am and 7 am .
Take Dose 2 about two hours after you start Dose 1 .
Make sure you finish Dose 2 at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
Follow Step 1 , Step 2 and Step 3 on how to mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely and take PLENVU : • Step 1 a : Empty Dose 1 into the mixing container that comes with your PLENVU .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 1 b : Add water to the fill line .
You will need to add least 16 ounces .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 1 c : Mix the water and PLENVU together with a spoon or put lid on mixing container securely and shake the water and PLENVU , until it is completely dissolved .
This can take 2 to 3 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 2 : Drink the entire contents of the mixing container over the next 30 minutes .
• If you feel like you have severe stomach pain or discomfort you can stop taking PLENVU for a short time and then continue taking it or you can take smaller sips of PLENVU so that you space out your dose longer than 30 minutes .
If you still have severe stomach pain , call your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 3 : Rinse the mixing container with water .
Refill to fill line with clear liquids .
This will be at least 16 ounces .
Drink the entire contents of the mixing container over the next 30 minutes .
After drinking your 16 ounces of water mixed with PLENVU and the 16 ounces of the clear liquids , it is important that you drink additional clear liquids in the morning before Dose 2 to help avoid dehydration .
For a list of clear liquids , see examples at the top of the Instructions for Use .
You must stop drinking all liquids at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • After taking PLENVU if you have any bloating or feeling like your stomach is upset , wait to take Dose 2 until your stomach feels better .
For Dose 2 : Rinse the mixing container with water .
Repeat Step 1 , Step 2 and Step 3 but this time for Dose 2 you will empty two dose pouches ( Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B ) into the mixing container at the same time .
After drinking your 16 ounces of water mixed with PLENVU and the 16 ounces of the clear liquids , it is important that you drink additional clear liquids to help avoid dehydration .
For a list of clear liquids , see examples at the top of the Instructions for Use .
You must stop drinking all liquids at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Norgine Limited 7 Tir - y - berth Industrial Estate New Road , Tir - y - berth Hengoed , CF82 8 SJ United Kingdom ( GBR ) U . S . Patent Numbers : 8 , 999 , 313 ; 9 , 326 , 969 ; 9 , 592 , 252 ; 9 , 707 , 297 ; 10 , 016 , 504 ; 10 , 646 , 512 ; 10 , 780 , 112 and 10 , 792 , 306 PLENVU is a registered trademark of the Norgine group of companies used under license .
© 2021 Salix Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its affiliates This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : May 2021 9643002 70015340 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Plenvu Outer Carton Rx only NDC 65649 - 400 - 01 PLENVU ® ( polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium ascorbate , sodium sulfate , ascorbic acid , sodium chloride and potassium chloride for oral solution ) 140 g , 48 . 11 g , 9 g , 7 . 54 g , 5 . 2 g , 2 . 2 g This carton contains : • • Dose 1 • • Dose 2 Pouch A and Dose 2 Pouch B • • Mixing container with fill line • • Prescribing Information and patient information Dose 1 Pouch contains 115 . 96 g of powder for oral solution .
Dose 2 Pouch A contains 46 . 26 g of powder for oral solution .
Dose 2 Pouch B contains 55 . 65 g of powder for oral solution .
All of Dose 1 ( one pouch ) and Dose 2 ( two pouches ) must be consumed .
Follow the instructions provided prior to use .
Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 491 mg per treatment .
Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Reconstitute and dilute in water prior to use .
Salix PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
