Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each 5 mL tsp ) Diphenhydramine HCL , 12 . 5 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itchy , watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold : • runny nose • sneezing Warnings Do not use • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin • to make a child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if you have • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • trouble urinating due to the enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product : • excitability might occur , especially in children • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness effect • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • Take every 4 to 6 hours , or as directed by doctor .
• Do not exceed recommended dose .
Adults and Children 12 years of age and over : take 10 to 20 mL ( 2 to 4 tsp ) not to exceed 300 mg in 24 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age : take 5 to 10 mL ( 1 to 2 tsp ) not to exceed 150 mg in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
• Do not refrigerate .
Avoid excessive heat or humidity .
• Protect from light .
Inactive ingredients Cherry flavor , citric acid , FD & C Red # 40 , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sorbitol , and sucralose Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays from 8 AM to 4 PM AST at 1 - 787 - 767 - 2072 | www . kramernovis . com Manufactured in the USA for Kramer Novis , San Juan , PR 00917 Compare to the active ingredient of Benadryl ® Allergy Liquid * Relieves : √ Runny Nose √ Sneezing √ Itchy , Watery Eyes √ Itchy Throat Cherry Flavor Alcohol Free * This product is not manufactured or distributed by McNeil Consumer Healthcare , distributor of Benadryl ® Allergy .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SEAL UNDER CAP IS TORN , BROKEN OR MISSING .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
