Active Ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before us if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persisten headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults & children 2 yrs & over : • rub a thick layer on chest and throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about thorat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or directed by doctor • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , special petrolatum , spirits of turpentine , thymol Questions ?
1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 adverse reactions section FAILURE TO FOLLOW THESE WARNINGS COULD RESULT IN SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Vicks VapoRub Dist .
By Target Corp .
Mpls . , MN 55403 248 . 001 / 248 AI principal display panel NDC 11673 - 667 - 02 Compare to Vicks Vaporub cough supressant and topical analgesic medicated chest rub medicated ointment up & up NET WT 1 . 76 OZ ( 49 . 8 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
