DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP ( pyridostigmine bromide ) are an orally active cholinesterase inhibitor .
Chemically , pyridostigmine bromide is 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP are available in the following form : Tablets containing 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide ; each tablet also contains anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pyridostigmine bromide tablets inhibit the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase and thereby permits freer transmission of nerve impulses across the neuromuscular junction .
Pyridostigmine is an analog of neostigmine ( ProstigminTM ) , but differs from it in certain clinically significant respects ; for example , pyridostigmine is characterized by a longer duration of action and fewer gastrointestinal side effects .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pyridostigmine bromide tablets are useful in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyridostigmine bromide tablets are contraindicated in mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction , and particular caution should be used in its administration to patients with bronchial asthma .
Care should be observed in the use of atropine for counteracting side effects , as discussed below .
WARNINGS Although failure of patients to show clinical improvement may reflect under dosage , it can also be indicative of overdosage .
As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of pyridostigmine bromide may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness which , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Myasthenic crisis due to an increase in the severity of the disease is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness , and thus may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
Such differentiation is extremely important , since increases in doses of pyridostigmine bromide or other drugs of this class in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or " insensitive " state could have grave consequences .
Osserman and Genkins1 indicate that the differential diagnosis of the two types of crisis may require the use of TensilonTM ( edrophonium chloride ) as well as clinical judgment .
The treatment of the two conditions obviously differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis suggests the need for more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , the diagnosis of cholinergic crisis , according to Osserman and Genkins1 , calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to abolish or obtund gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
For detailed information on the management of patients with myasthenia gravis , the physician is referred to one of the excellent reviews such as those by Osserman and Genkins2 , Grob3 or Schwab4 , 5 Usage in Pregnancy The safety of pyridostigmine bromide tablets during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of pyridostigmine bromide tablets in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ' s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTIONS Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney . 6 , 7 , 8 Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect . 6 , 7 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of pyridostigmine bromide tablets are most commonly related to overdosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine , but for reasons shown in the preceding section the expedient is not without danger .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pyridostigmine bromide tablets are available in following dosage form : Conventional Tablets each containing 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide .
Dosage The size and frequency of the dosage must be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient .
Conventional Tablets The average dose is ten 60 mg tablets , spaced to provide maximum relief when maximum strength is needed .
In severe cases as many as 25 tablets a day may be required , while in mild cases one to six tablets a day may suffice .
NOTE : For information on a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis , and for the evaluation and stabilization of therapy , please see product literature on Tensilon ( edrophonium chloride ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Tablets , are available as white , flat - faced tablets containing 60 mg pyridostigmine bromide in bottles of 30 ( NDC 71930 - 028 - 30 ) and 90 ( NDC 71930 - 028 - 90 ) .
Each tablet is white to off - white , round , flat - faced tablet debossed with " C 60 " on one side and quadrisect scored on the other side .
Store at 25 ˚ C ( 77 ˚ F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ˚ to 30 ˚ C ( 59 ˚ to 86 ˚ F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Preserve in a tight , light - resistant container .
Keep pyridostigmine bromide tablets , USP in a dry place with the silica gel enclosed .
REFERENCES 1 .
Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis : Reduction in mortality rate after crisis .
JAMA .
Jan 1963 ; 183 : 97 - 101 .
2 .
Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis .
NY State J Med .
June 1961 ; 61 : 2076 - 2085 .
3 .
Grob D . Myasthenia gravis .
A review of pathogenesis and treatment .
Arch Intern Med .
Oct 1961 ; 108 : 615 - 638 .
4 .
Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 596 - 597 .
5 .
Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 717 - 719 .
6 .
Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB .
Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1980 ; 28 : No . 1 , 78 - 81 .
7 .
Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
In : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , ed .
Anaesthesiology .
( Hamburg , Germany : Congress ; Sep 14 - 21 , 1980 ; 222 - 223 . )
( Int Congr .
No . 538 ) , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica ; 1981 .
8 .
Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM , Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1985 ; 5 : 495 - 501 .
All Product / Brand names are the trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Centaur Pharmaceuticals Private Limited Plot no . 4 , International Biotech Park , Phase - II , Hinjewadi , Pune , Maharashtra 411057 , India Distributed by : Eywa Pharma Inc 2 Research Way , Floor 3 Princeton , NJ 08540 Revised : 02 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Unit - of - use NDC 71930 - 028 - 90 Pyridostigmine Bromide Tablets , USP 60 mg Rx only CAUTION : EXTREMELY MOISTURE SENSITIVE DO NOT REMOVE DESICCANT .
CLOSE TIGHTLY .
90 Tablets eywa pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
