Active ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % ................
Anti - itch Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • jewelry • insect bites • soaps • cosmetics • detergents • seborrheic dermatitis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
• more than directed unless directed by a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs If pregnant or breast - fedding , aska health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
• for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) aloe vera gel , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetanol , ceteth - 20 , liquid paraffin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 814 - 8028 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer , com Made in South Korea [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
