DESCRIPTION Phentermine hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic .
Its chemical name is α , α , - dimethylphenethylamine hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phentermine hydrochloride is a white , odorless , hygroscopic , crystalline powder which is soluble in water and lower alcohols , slightly soluble in chloroform and insoluble in ether .
LOMAIRA ™ tablet is available as an oral tablet containing 8 mg of phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 6 . 4 mg of phentermine base ) .
Each LOMAIRA ™ tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : Corn Starch , Magnesium Stearate , NF , Microcrystalline Cellulose 102 , NF , Stearic Acid , NF , FD & C Blue # 1 , Sucrose and Pharmaceutical Glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Phentermine is a sympathomimetic amine with pharmacologic activity similar to the prototype drugs of this class used in obesity , amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) .
Drugs of this class used in obesity are commonly known as “ anorectics ” or “ anorexigenics . ”
It has not been established that the primary action of such drugs in treating obesity is one of appetite suppression since other central nervous system actions , or metabolic effects , may also be involved .
Pharmacodynamics Typical actions of amphetamines include central nervous system stimulation and elevation of blood pressure .
Tachyphylaxis and tolerance have been demonstrated with all drugs of this class in which these phenomena have been looked for .
Pharmacokinetics Specific Populations Renal Impairment Phentermine was not studied in patients with renal impairment .
The literature reported cumulative urinary excretion of phentermine under uncontrolled urinary pH conditions is 62 % - 85 % .
Exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment .
Use caution when administering phentermine to patients with renal impairment .
CLINICAL STUDIES In relatively short - term clinical trials , adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with “ anorectic ” drugs lost more weight on the average than those treated with placebo and diet .
The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug - treated patients over placebo - treated patients is only a fraction of a pound a week .
The rate of weight loss is greatest in the first weeks of therapy for both drug and placebo subjects and tends to decrease in succeeding weeks .
The possible origins of the increased weight loss due to the various drug effects are not established .
The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “ anorectic ” drug varies from trial to trial , and the increased weight loss appears to be related in part to variables other than the drugs prescribed , such as the physician - investigator , the population treated and the diet prescribed .
Studies do not permit conclusions as to the relative importance of the drug and non - drug factors on weight loss .
The natural history of obesity is measured over several years , whereas the studies cited are restricted to a few weeks ’ duration ; thus , the total impact of drug - induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically limited .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LOMAIRA ™ tablets are indicated as a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity in patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg / m 2 , or greater than or equal to 27 kg / m 2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , controlled hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) .
Below is a chart of body mass index ( BMI ) based on various heights and weights .
BMI is calculated by taking the patient ’ s weight , in kilograms ( kg ) , divided by the patient ’ s height , in meters ( m ) , squared .
Metric conversions are as follows : pounds ÷ 2 . 2 = kg ; inches x 0 . 0254 = meters .
BODY MASS INDEX ( BMI ) , kg / m 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] The limited usefulness of agents of this class , including phentermine ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) , should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of cardiovascular disease ( e . g . , coronary artery disease , stroke , arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , uncontrolled hypertension ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy ( see Precautions ) • Nursing ( see Precautions ) • Known hypersensitivity , or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines WARNINGS Coadministration with Other Drug Products for Weight Loss LOMAIRA ™ tablets are indicated only as short - term ( a few weeks ) monotherapy for the management of exogenous obesity .
The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss including prescribed drugs , over - the - counter preparations , and herbal products , or serotonergic agents such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , paroxetine ) , have not been established .
Therefore , coadministration of phentermine and these drug products is not recommended .
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension Primary Pulmonary Hypertension ( PPH ) – a rare , frequently fatal disease of the lungs – has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine .
The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea .
Other initial symptoms may include angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance .
Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new , unexplained symptoms of dyspnea , angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema , and patients should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension .
Valvular Heart Disease Serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , primarily affecting the mitral , aortic and / or tricuspid valves , has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss .
The possible role of phentermine in the etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known .
The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
Development of Tolerance , Discontinuation in Case of Tolerance When tolerance to the anorectant effect develops , the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect ; rather , the drug should be discontinued .
Effect on the Ability to Engage in Potentially Hazardous Tasks Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Risk of Abuse and Dependence Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) and other related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused .
The possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
See Adverse Reactions / Drug Abuse and Dependence and Overdosage .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Usage with Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
Use in Patients with Hypertension Use caution in prescribing phentermine for patients with even mild hypertension ( risk of increase in blood pressure ) .
Use in Patients on Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemic Medications for Diabetes Mellitus A reduction in insulin or oral hypoglycemic medications in patients with diabetes mellitus may be required .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients Patients must be informed that phentermine hydrochloride is a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity , and that coadministration of phentermine with other drugs for weight loss is not recommended ( see Indications and Usage and Warnings ) .
Patients must be instructed on how much phentermine to take , and when and how to take it ( see Dosage and Administration ) .
Advise pregnant women and nursing mothers not to use phentermine ( see Precautions ) .
Patients must be informed about the risks of use of phentermine ( including the risks discussed in Warnings and Precautions ) , about the symptoms of potential adverse reactions and when to contact a physician and / or take other action .
The risks include , but are not limited to : • Development of primary pulmonary hypertension ( see Warnings ) • Development of serious valvular heart disease ( see Warnings ) • Effects on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks ( see Warnings ) • The risk of an increase in blood pressure ( see Warnings and Adverse Reactions ) • The risk of interactions ( see Contraindications , Warnings , and Precautions / Drug Interactions ) The patients must also be informed about • the potential for developing tolerance and actions if they suspect development of tolerance ( see Warnings ) and • the risk of dependence and the potential consequences of abuse ( see Warnings , Drug Abuse and Dependence , and Overdosage ) .
Tell patients to keep phentermine in a safe place to prevent theft , accidental overdose , misuse or abuse .
Selling or giving away phentermine may harm others and is against the law .
Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis .
Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered ( see Warnings ) Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs Phentermine may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed with phentermine to determine the potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X Phentermine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant woman and may result in fetal harm .
A minimum weight gain , and no weight loss , is currently recommended for all pregnant women , including those who are already overweight or obese , due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy .
Phentermine has pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if phentermine is excreted in human milk ; however , other amphetamines are present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because pediatric obesity is a chronic condition requiring long - term treatment , the use of this product , approved for short - term therapy , is not recommended .
Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Renal Impairment Phentermine was not studied in patients with renal impairment .
Based on the reported excretion of phentermine in urine , exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment .
Use caution when administering phentermine to patients with renal impairment ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : - Primary pulmonary hypertension ( see Warnings ) - Valvular heart disease ( see Warnings ) - Effect on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks ( see Warnings ) - Withdrawal effects following prolonged high dosage administration ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ) The following adverse reactions to phentermine have been identified : Cardiovascular Primary pulmonary hypertension and / or regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , palpitation , tachycardia , elevation of blood pressure , ischemic events .
Central Nervous System Overstimulation , restlessness , dizziness , insomnia , euphoria , dysphoria , tremor , headache , psychosis .
Gastrointestinal Dryness of the mouth , unpleasant taste , diarrhea , constipation , other gastrointestinal disturbances .
Allergic Urticaria .
Endocrine Impotence , changes in libido .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Phentermine is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Abuse Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and other stimulant drugs have been extensively abused and the possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
Dependence Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs to many times than recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
A severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
OVERDOSAGE The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Acute Overdosage Manifestations of acute overdosage include restlessness , tremor , hyperreflexia , rapid respiration , confusion , assaultiveness , hallucinations , and panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include arrhythmia , hypertension or hypotension , and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Overdosage of pharmacologically similar compounds has resulted in fatal poisoning usually terminates in convulsions and coma .
Management of acute phentermine hydrochloride intoxication is largely symptomatic and includes lavage and sedation with a barbiturate .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations in this regard .
Acidification of the urine increases phentermine excretion .
Intravenous phentolamine ( Regitine ® , CIBA ) has been suggested on pharmacologic grounds for possible acute , severe hypertension , if this complicates overdosage .
Chronic Intoxication Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose .
The usual adult dose is one tablet three times a day ½ hour before meals .
This tablet is scored to facilitate administering one half of the usual dosage for patients not requiring the full dose .
Phentermine hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients less than or equal to 16 years of age .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LOMAIRA ™ is available as follows : LOMAIRA ™ 8 mg is supplied as white butterfly shaped tablets with blue speckles , debossed “ K1 ” on one side and bisected on the other side .
Bottles of 30 , NDC 10702 - 001 - 03 Bottles of 60 , NDC 10702 - 001 - 06 Bottles of 90 , NDC 10702 - 001 - 09 Bottles of 250 , NDC 10702 - 001 - 25 Bottles of 500 , NDC 10702 - 001 - 50 Bottles of 1000 , NDC 10702 - 001 - 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Manufactured by : KVK - Tech , Inc .
110 Terry Drive Newtown , PA 18940 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Item ID # 006178 / 07 Manufacturer ’ s Code : 10702 09 / 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 30 Tablets NDC 10702 - 001 - 03 LOMAIRA TM CIV ( phentermine hydrochloride USP ) tablets 8 mg 30 Tablets Rx Only KVK - TECH , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 Tablets NDC 10702 - 001 - 06 LOMAIRA TM CIV ( phentermine hydrochloride USP ) tablets 8 mg 60 Tablets Rx only KVK - TECH , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 90 Tablets NDC 10702 - 001 - 09 LOMAIRA TM CIV ( phentermine hydrochloride USP ) tablets 8 mg 90 Tablets Rx only KVK - TECH , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 250 Tablets NDC 10702 - 001 - 25 LOMAIRA TM CIV ( phentermine hydrochloride USP ) tablets 8 mg 250 Tablets Rx only KVK - TECH , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 Tablets NDC 10702 - 001 - 50 LOMAIRA TM CIV ( phentermine hydrochloride USP ) tablets 8 mg 500 Tablets Rx only KVK - TECH , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 Tablets NDC 10702 - 001 - 10 LOMAIRA TM CIV ( phentermine hydrochloride USP ) tablets 8 mg Rx only 1000 Tablets KVK - TECH , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
