Active Ingredients : Diphenhydramine HCL 2 . 0 % Topical Analgesic Zinc Acetate 0 . 1 % Skin Protectant Purpose Topical Analgesic , Skin protectant .
Uses : Temporarily relieves pain and itching associated with : insect bites , minor burns and cuts , sunburn , scrapes , minor skin irritations , rashes due to poison ivy , oak and sumac , dries the oozing and weeping of poison ivy , poison oak and poison sumac .
Warnings : For external use only .
flammable : do not use while smokingo r near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 degrees F . Do not use On large areas of the body .
with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one taken by mouth .
Ask a doctor before use on chicken pox on measles When using this product , keep out of eyes , use only as directed .
Stop use and ask doctor if : condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again in a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor .
Other Information store between 20 and 25 degrees C ( 68 to 77 degrees F ) Inactive Ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , glycerin , purified water , sd alcohol 40 - B , tromethamine Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson and Johnson consumer Products company , owner of the Registered trademark Benadryl Distributed by Walgreen Co .
200 Wilmot Rd . , Deerfield , IL 60015 - 4616 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed www . walgreens . com MADE IN USA Compare to Benadryl ( r ) Spray Active ingredients Walgreens Extra Strength Wal - Dryl Itch Relief Continuous Spray Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride 2 % Zinc Acetate 0 . 1 % Histamine Blocking Topical Analgesic Skin Protectant Relieves itching and pain from insect bites , rashes , poison ivy , sumac and oak .
3 fl oz ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
