DESCRIPTION : Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment , 1 % is a sterile topical anticholinergic for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • H2O Mol .
Wt .
694 . 83 Chemical Name : Benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo - [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester , endo - ( ± ) - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , monohydrate .
Each gram contains : ACTIVE : Atropine Sulfate , 1 % ( 10 mg ) ; INACTIVES : Lanolin oil , mineral oil , purified water , and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CHEMICAL PHARMACOLOGY The anticholinergic effect of this product blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the accommodative muscle of the ciliary body to cholinergic stimulation , producing pupillary dilation ( mydriasis ) and paralysis of accommodation ( cycloplegia ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For mydriasis and / or cycloplegia .
For cycloplegic refraction , for pupillary dilation desired in inflammatory conditions of the iris and uveal tract .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be used in patients with primary glaucoma or a predisposition to narrow anterior chamber angle glaucoma .
This product should not be used in pediatric patients who have previously had a severe systemic reaction to atropine .
This product should not be used in those persons showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS In pediatric patients , use with extreme caution .
Excessive use in pediatric patients or in certain individuals with a previous history of susceptibility to belladonna alkaloids may produce systemic symptoms of atropine poisoning .
If this occurs , discontinue medication and use appropriate therapy as outlined in OVERDOSAGE .
PRECAUTIONS To avoid excessive systemic absorption , the lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after instillation .
To avoid inducing angle closure glaucoma , an estimation of the depth of the angle of the anterior chamber should be made .
Administration of atropine in infants requires great caution .
Patient Warning : Patients should be advised not to drive or engage in other hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patients may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their children ’ s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ’ s hands following administration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the potential of these effects .
Animal reproduction studies have not been performed with atropine .
It is also not known whether atropine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Atropine should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Prolonged use may produce local irritation characterized by follicular conjunctivitis , vascular congestion , edema , exudate , and an eczematoid dermatitis .
Severe reactions are manifested by hypotension with progressive respiratory depression .
Coma and death have been reported in the very young .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Systemic atropine toxicity is manifested by flushing and dryness of the skin ( a rash may be present in pediatric patients ) , blurred vision , a rapid and irregular pulse , fever , abdominal distension in infants , mental aberration ( hallucinosis ) and loss of neuromuscular coordination .
Atropine poisoning , although distressing , is rarely fatal , even with large doses of atropine , and is self - limited if the cause is recognized and the atropine medication is discontinued .
In severe intoxication , physostigmine salicylate may be administered parenterally to provide more prompt relief of the intoxication .
Give physostigmine salicylate as 1 - 5 mL IV of dilution containing 1 mg in 5 mL of saline .
The smaller dose is for pediatric patients , and injection should take not less than 2 minutes .
EKG control is advisable .
Dosage can be repeated every 5 minutes up to a total dose of 2 mg in pediatric patients and 6 mg in adults every 30 minutes .
Physostigmine is contraindicated in hypotensive reactions .
Atropine ( 1 mg ) should be available for immediate injection if physostigmine causes bradycardia , convulsions or bronchoconstriction .
In pediatric patients , the body surface must be kept moist .
Use extreme caution when employing short - acting barbiturates to control excitement .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a small amount of ointment to the conjunctival sac once or twice a day , or as directed by a physician .
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY HOW SUPPLIED Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment , 1 % is supplied in an ophthalmic tip applicator tube in the following size : 3 . 5 g tubes - NDC 24208 - 825 - 55 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] STORAGE : Store between 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated , Tampa , FL 33637 USA © 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Rev . 04 / 2020 9115203 ( Folded ) 9115303 ( Flat ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24208 - 825 - 55 Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment , 1 % ( Sterile ) FOR OPHTALMIC USE ONLY Rx only Net .
Wt .
1 / 8 oz .
( 3 . 5 g ) BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
