Temporary Importation of Marplan ( iscarboxacid ) Tablets to Address Critical Drug Shortage IMPORTANT PRESCRIBING INFORMATION December 20 , 2018 Subject : Temporary Importation of Marplan ® ( isocarboxacid ) Tablets to Address Critical Drug Shortage Dear Healthcare Professional , In order to address the critical shortage of Marplan ® ( isocarboxazid ) 10 mg Tablets in the United States ( US ) market , Validus Pharmaceuticals LLC is coordinating with the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to make Marplan available to our patients .
Validus has initiated temporary importation of another manufacturer ’ s Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) into the U . S . market .
This product is manufactured and marketed in Denmark by MediLink .
At this time , no other entity except Validus Pharmaceuticals LLC is authorized by the FDA to import and distribute MediLink ’ s Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg Tablets in the United States .
FDA has not approved MediLink ’ s Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg Tablets but does not object to its importation into the United States .
Effective immediately , and during this temporary period , Validus will offer the following product : Product Name and Description Bottle Count NDC Code Manufacturer Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg Tablets 56 tablets 72604 - 032 - 01 MediLink It is important to note the following : • The labeling is in Danish .
MediLink ’ s Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg Tablets ’ labeling , with the exception of the product name “ Marplan ” , will appear in Danish .
There are key differences in the labeling between Validus ’ Marplan and Medilink ’ s Marplan .
A side by side comparison of the FDA approved Marplan ( isocarboxazid ) Prescribing Information and the imported Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) product information is included at the end of this letter .
• The tablets have different appearance .
MediLink ’ s Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg tablets are “ dull pink ” in color whereas Validus ’ Marplan ( isocarboxazid ) 10 mg tablets are “ peach - colored . ”
MediLink ’ s Marplan 10 mg tablets are imprinted with “ CL 3M3 ” whereas Validus ’ Marplan 10 mg tablets are imprinted with “ Marplan ” and “ 10 ” on one side .
Please refer to the “ Product Comparison ” table at the end of this letter for details and images .
• The barcode may not register accurately in the U . S . scanning systems .
Institutions should manually input the product into their systems and confirm that the barcode Marplan DHCP Letter Page 1 of 22 systems do not provide incorrect information when the product is scanned .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
To order , or if you have any questions about MediLink ’ s Marplan , please contact Validus Customer Service by phone at 1 - 866 - 982 - 5438 or by e - mail at info @ validuspharma . com .
To report Adverse Events or Quality Problems among patients who have received - MediLink ’ s Marplan , please contact Validus at 1 - 866 - 982 - 5438 or by e - mail at info @ validuspharma . com .
Adverse events or quality problems may also be reported to FDA ’ s MedWatch Adverse reporting Program either online , by regular mail , or by fax : • Complete and submit the report Online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular Mail or Fax : Download form www . fda . gov / Medwatch / getforms . htm or call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 to request a reporting form .
Complete and return the form to the address on the pre - addressed form , or submit it by fax to 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 ( 1 - 800 - 332 - 1078 ) .
If you have any questions about the information contained in this letter or the safe and effective use of MediLink ’ s Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg Tablets , please contact Validus at 1 - 866 - 982 - 5438 or by e - mail at info @ validuspharma . com .
Sincerely , Gina Walljasper Sr .
Director Regulatory and Quality Operations Validus Pharmaceuticals LLC Principal Display Panel - Marplan ( isocarboxacid ) 10 mg Tablets Marplan 10 mg is a round and flat , pink tablet with a break line on one side and labeled CL 3M3 on the other side .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
