Indications and Usage , Treatment to Increase Bone Density in Men with Osteoporosis at High Risk for Fracture ( 1 . 2 ) 12 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TYMLOS is a human parathyroid hormone related peptide [ PTHrP ( 1 - 34 ) ] analog indicated for the : • Treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy .
( 1 . 1 ) • Treatment to increase bone density in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis at High Risk for Fracture TYMLOS is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture ( defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture or multiple risk factors for fracture ) , or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy .
In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , TYMLOS reduces the risk of vertebral fractures and nonvertebral fractures .
1 . 2 Treatment to Increase Bone Density in Men with Osteoporosis at High Risk for Fracture TYMLOS is indicated to increase bone density in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture ( defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture or multiple risk factors for fracture ) , or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage is 80 mcg subcutaneously once daily ; patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer as a subcutaneous injection into periumbilical region of abdomen .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer initially where the patient can sit or lie down in case symptoms of orthostatic hypotension occur .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage • The recommended dosage of TYMLOS is 80 mcg administered subcutaneously once daily .
• Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions • Administer TYMLOS as a subcutaneous injection into the periumbilical region of the abdomen .
Rotate the site of the injection every day and administer at approximately the same time every day .
Do not administer intravenously or intramuscularly .
• Administer the first several doses where the patient can sit or lie down if necessary , in case symptoms of orthostatic hypotension occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Visually inspect TYMLOS for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
TYMLOS is a clear and colorless solution .
Do not use if solid particles appear or if the solution is cloudy or colored .
• Provide appropriate training and instruction to patients and caregivers on the proper use of the TYMLOS pen .
2 . 3 Treatment Duration The safety and efficacy of TYMLOS have not been evaluated beyond 2 years of treatment .
Use of the drug for more than 2 years during a patient ' s lifetime is not recommended .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 3120 mcg / 1 . 56 mL ( 2000 mcg / mL ) of abaloparatide in clear , colorless solution in a single - patient - use prefilled pen .
The prefilled pen delivers 30 doses of TYMLOS , each containing 80 mcg of abaloparatide in 40 mcL .
Injection : 3120 mcg / 1 . 56 ml ( 2000 mcg / ml ) of abaloparatide in clear , colorless solution in a single - patient - use prefilled pen .
The prefilled pen delivers 30 daily doses of 80 mcg abaloparatide in 40 mcl .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TYMLOS is contraindicated in patients with a history of systemic hypersensitivity to abaloparatide or to any component of the product formulation .
Reactions have included anaphylaxis , dyspnea , and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to TYMLOS .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Osteosarcoma : Avoid use in patients with increased risk of osteosarcoma including patients with open epiphyses , metabolic bone diseases including Paget ' s disease , bone metastases or history of skeletal malignancies , prior external beam or implant radiation therapy involving the skeleton , and hereditary disorders predisposing to osteosarcoma .
( 5 . 1 ) • Orthostatic Hypotension : Instruct patients to sit or lie down if symptoms develop after dose administration .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypercalcemia : Avoid use in patients with pre - existing hypercalcemia and those known to have an underlying hypercalcemic disorder , such as primary hyperparathyroidism .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypercalciuria and Urolithiasis : Monitor urine calcium if pre - existing hypercalciuria or active urolithiasis are suspected .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Osteosarcoma Abaloparatide caused a dose - dependent increase in the incidence of osteosarcoma in male and female rats after subcutaneous administration at exposures 4 to 28 times the human exposure at the clinical dose of 80 mcg [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
It is unknown whether TYMLOS will cause osteosarcoma in humans .
Osteosarcoma has been reported in patients treated with a PTH - analog in the post marketing setting ; however , an increased risk of osteosarcoma has not been observed in observational studies in humans .
There are limited data assessing the risk of osteosarcoma beyond 2 years of TYMLOS and / or use of a PTH - analog [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Avoid TYMLOS use in patients with ( these patients are at increased baseline risk of osteosarcoma ) : • Open epiphyses ( pediatric and young adult patients ) ( TYMLOS is not approved in pediatric patients ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• Metabolic bone diseases other than osteoporosis , including Paget ' s disease of the bone .
• Bone metastases or a history of skeletal malignancies .
• Prior external beam or implant radiation therapy involving the skeleton .
• Hereditary disorders predisposing to osteosarcoma .
5 . 2 Orthostatic Hypotension Orthostatic hypotension may occur with TYMLOS , typically within 4 hours of injection .
Associated symptoms may include dizziness , palpitations , tachycardia , or nausea , and may resolve by having the patient lie down .
For the first several doses , TYMLOS should be administered where the patient can sit or lie down if necessary [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hypercalcemia TYMLOS may cause hypercalcemia .
TYMLOS is not recommended in patients with pre - existing hypercalcemia or in patients who have an underlying hypercalcemic disorder , such as primary hyperparathyroidism , because of the possibility of exacerbating hypercalcemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypercalciuria and Urolithiasis TYMLOS may cause hypercalciuria .
It is unknown whether TYMLOS may exacerbate urolithiasis in patients with active or a history of urolithiasis .
If active urolithiasis or pre - existing hypercalciuria is suspected , measurement of urinary calcium excretion should be considered [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in greater detail in other sections : • Orthostatic Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypercalciuria and Urolithiasis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Osteoporosis in postmenopausal women : The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) are hypercalciuria , dizziness , nausea , headache , palpitations , fatigue , upper abdominal pain , and vertigo .
( 6 . 1 ) • Osteoporosis in men : The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) are injection site erythema , dizziness , arthralgia , injection site swelling , injection site pain , contusion , nausea , diarrhea , abdominal distension , abdominal pain , and bone pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Radius Health , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 672 - 3487 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trial in Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis The safety of TYMLOS was evaluated in a randomized , multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis aged 49 to 86 years ( mean age 69 years ) who were randomized to receive 80 mcg of TYMLOS ( N = 824 ) or placebo ( N = 821 ) , given subcutaneously once daily for 18 months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
In this study , the incidence of all - cause mortality was 0 . 4 % in the TYMLOS group and 0 . 6 % in the placebo group .
The incidence of serious adverse events was 10 % in the TYMLOS group and 11 % in the placebo group .
The percentage of patients who discontinued study drug due to adverse events was 10 % in the TYMLOS group and 6 % in the placebo group .
The most common adverse reactions leading to study drug discontinuation in the TYMLOS group were nausea ( 2 % ) , dizziness ( 1 % ) , headache ( 1 % ) , and palpitations ( 1 % ) .
Table 1 shows the most common adverse reactions in the trial .
These adverse reactions were generally not present at baseline , occurred more commonly with TYMLOS than with placebo , and occurred in at least 2 % of the patients treated with TYMLOS .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions Reported in Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis ** Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of TYMLOS - treated patients .
Preferred term TYMLOS ( N = 822 ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 820 ) ( % ) Hypercalciuria 11 9 Dizziness 10 6 Nausea 8 3 Headache 8 6 Palpitations 5 0 . 4 Fatigue 3 2 Abdominal pain upper 3 2 Vertigo 2 2 Orthostatic Hypotension In the clinical trial of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis , the incidence of orthostatic blood pressure decline ≥ 20 mmHg systolic or ≥ 10 mmHg diastolic at 1 hour after the first injection was 4 % in the TYMLOS group and 3 % in the placebo group .
At later time points the incidence was generally similar between the treatment groups .
Adverse reactions of orthostatic hypotension were reported in 1 % of patients receiving TYMLOS and 0 . 5 % of patients receiving placebo .
Dizziness was reported by more TYMLOS - treated patients ( 10 % ) compared to placebo ( 6 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Tachycardia In women with postmenopausal osteoporosis , adverse reactions of tachycardia , including sinus tachycardia , were reported in 2 % of patients receiving TYMLOS and 1 % of patients in the placebo group .
In 5 of the 13 patients receiving TYMLOS who experienced tachycardia , symptoms occurred within 1 hour of administration .
TYMLOS has been associated with a dose - dependent increase in heart rate which developed within 15 minutes after injection and resolved in about 6 hours [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Injection Site Reactions During the first month of the trial , injection site reactions were assessed daily one - hour after injection .
TYMLOS had a higher incidence than placebo of injection site redness ( 58 % vs . 28 % ) , edema ( 11 % vs . 3 % ) , and pain ( 10 % vs . 7 % ) .
Severe redness , severe edema , and severe pain were reported among 2 . 9 % , 0 . 4 % , and 0 . 4 % of the TYMLOS - treated patients .
Laboratory Abnormalities Hypercalcemia In the clinical trial of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis , TYMLOS caused increases in serum calcium concentrations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The incidence of hypercalcemia , defined as albumin - corrected serum calcium ≥ 10 . 7 mg / dL at 4 hours following injection at any visit , was 3 % in TYMLOS - treated patients and 0 . 1 % with placebo .
Pre - dose serum calcium was similar to baseline in both groups .
There were 2 ( 0 . 2 % ) TYMLOS - treated patients and no placebo - treated patients who discontinued from the study due to hypercalcemia .
The incidence of hypercalcemia with TYMLOS was higher in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( 4 % ) compared to patients with normal renal function ( 1 % ) .
Increases in Serum Uric Acid TYMLOS increased serum uric acid concentrations .
In the postmenopausal osteoporosis trial , among patients with normal baseline uric acid concentrations , 25 % of patients in the TYMLOS group and 6 % of patients in the placebo group had at least one post - baseline concentration above the normal range .
The hyperuricemia observed in TYMLOS - treated patients was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions of gout or arthralgia over that observed with placebo .
Hypercalciuria and Urolithiasis In the clinical trial of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis , the overall incidence of urine calcium : creatinine ratio > 400 mg / g was higher with TYMLOS than with placebo ( 20 % vs 15 % , respectively ) .
Urolithiases were reported in 2 . 1 % of TYMLOS - treated patients and 1 . 7 % of placebo - treated patients .
Adverse Reactions from the Extension Study in Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis Following 18 months of treatment with TYMLOS or placebo , 1139 women transitioned to treatment with alendronate 70 mg administered orally once weekly .
The incidence of adverse events occurring during alendronate treatment was similar in patients with prior placebo or TYMLOS therapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trial in Men with Osteoporosis The safety of TYMLOS was evaluated in a randomized , multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in men with osteoporosis aged 42 to 85 years ( mean age 68 years ) who were randomized to receive 80 mcg of TYMLOS ( N = 149 ) or placebo ( N = 79 ) , given subcutaneously once daily for 12 months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
In this study , no patient from either treatment group had an adverse reaction with a fatal outcome during the trial .
Serious adverse reactions were reported by 5 . 4 % of subjects treated with TYMLOS and 5 . 1 % of subjects in the placebo group .
Adverse reactions leading to study drug discontinuation were reported for 6 . 7 % of patients treated with TYMLOS and 5 . 1 % of patients receiving placebo .
The most common adverse reaction leading to study drug discontinuation in the TYMLOS group was dizziness ( 2 % ) .
Table 2 shows the most common adverse reactions in the trial .
These adverse reactions were generally not present at baseline , occurred more commonly with TYMLOS than with placebo and occurred in at least 2 % of the patients treated with TYMLOS .
Table 2 : Common Adverse Reactions Reported in Men with Osteoporosis [ 1 ] Preferred Term TYMLOS ( N = 149 ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 79 ) ( % ) Injection site erythema 13 5 Dizziness 9 1 Arthralgia 7 1 Injection site swelling 7 0 Injection site pain 6 0 Contusion 3 0 Abdominal distention 3 0 Diarrhea 3 0 Nausea 3 0 Abdominal Pain 2 0 Bone Pain 2 0 [ 1 ] Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of TYMLOS - treated patients .
Orthostatic Hypotension In the clinical trial of men with osteoporosis , the incidence of orthostatic blood pressure declines of ≥ 20 mmHg systolic or ≥ 10 mmHg diastolic at 1 hour after the first injection was 6 % in the TYMLOS group and 3 % in the placebo group .
Adverse reactions of orthostatic hypotension were reported in 1 % of patients receiving TYMLOS and 0 patients receiving placebo .
Dizziness was reported by more TYMLOS - treated patients ( 9 % ) compared to placebo ( 1 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Laboratory Abnormalities Hypercalcemia In the clinical trial of men with osteoporosis , TYMLOS caused increases in serum calcium concentrations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The incidence of hypercalcemia , defined as albumin - corrected serum calcium ≥ 10 . 8 mg / dL at 4 hours following injection at any visit , was 3 % in TYMLOS - treated patients and 0 % with placebo .
Pre - dose serum calcium was similar to baseline in both groups .
The incidence of hypercalcemia , defined as albumin - corrected serum calcium ≥ 10 . 8 mg / dL at 4 hours following injection , with TYMLOS was higher in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( 4 % ) compared to patients with normal renal function ( 0 % ) .
Increases in Serum Uric Acid TYMLOS increased serum uric acid concentrations .
In the male osteoporosis trial , among patients with normal baseline uric acid concentrations , 7 % of patients in the TYMLOS group and 6 % of patients in the placebo group had at least one post - baseline concentration above the normal range .
The hyperuricemia observed in TYMLOS - treated patients was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions of gout or arthralgia over that observed with placebo .
Hypercalciuria and Urolithiasis In the clinical trial of men with osteoporosis , the overall incidence of urine calcium : creatinine ratio > 400 mg / g was not greater with TYMLOS than with placebo .
Urolithiases were reported in 2 % of TYMLOS - treated patients and 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the post - approval use of TYMLOS .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Abdominal distension , abdominal pain • Constipation , diarrhea , vomiting • Asthenia , lethargy , malaise • Insomnia • Hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions , dyspnea ( in the context of allergic reactions ) • Pruritus , rash • Generalized pain and pain in bone , joint , back , and extremity • Muscle spasms of the leg and back • Injection site reactions including bruising , hemorrhage , pruritus , and rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug - drug interaction studies have been performed [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary TYMLOS is not indicated for use in females of reproductive potential .
There are no human data with TYMLOS use in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks .
Animal reproduction studies with abaloparatide have not been conducted .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary TYMLOS is not indicated for use in females of reproductive potential .
There is no information on the presence of abaloparatide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of TYMLOS have not been established in pediatric patients .
TYMLOS is not recommended for use in pediatric patients with open epiphyses or hereditary disorders predisposing to osteosarcoma because of an increased baseline risk of osteosarcoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in the postmenopausal osteoporosis clinical studies of TYMLOS , 82 % were age 65 years and over , and 19 % were age 75 years and over .
In the male osteoporosis study , 74 % were age 65 years and over and 23 % were age 75 years or over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is required for patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment .
A study of a single dose of TYMLOS 80 mcg given subcutaneously was conducted in subjects with normal renal function or mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment .
The maximal concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of abaloparatide increased 1 . 4 - and 2 . 1 - fold , respectively , in subjects with severe renal impairment , compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Patients with severe renal impairment may have increased abaloparatide exposure that may increase the risk of adverse reactions ; therefore , monitor for adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In a clinical study , accidental overdose was reported in a patient who received 400 mcg in one day ( 5 times the recommended clinical dose ) ; dosing was temporarily interrupted .
The patient experienced asthenia , headache , nausea , and vertigo .
Serum calcium was not assessed on the day of the overdose , but on the following day the patient ' s serum calcium was within the normal range .
The effects of overdose may include hypercalcemia , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , tachycardia , orthostatic hypotension , and headache .
Overdosage Management There is no specific antidote for TYMLOS .
Treatment of suspected overdose should include discontinuation of TYMLOS , monitoring of serum calcium and phosphorus , and implementation of appropriate supportive measures , such as hydration .
Based on the molecular weight , plasma protein binding and volume of distribution , abaloparatide is not expected to be dialyzable .
11 DESCRIPTION TYMLOS injection for subcutaneous administration contains abaloparatide , a synthetic 34 amino acid peptide .
Abaloparatide is an analog of human parathyroid hormone related peptide , PTHrP ( 1 - 34 ) .
It has 41 % homology to hPTH ( 1 - 34 ) ( human parathyroid hormone 1 - 34 ) and 76 % homology to hPTHrP ( 1 - 34 ) ( human parathyroid hormone - related peptide 1 - 34 ) .
Abaloparatide has a molecular formula of C174H300N56O49 and a molecular weight of 3961 daltons with the amino acid sequence shown below : • Ala - Val - Ser - Glu - His - Gln - Leu - Leu - His - Asp - Lys - Gly - Lys - Ser - Ile - Gln - Asp - Leu - Arg - Arg - Arg - Glu - Leu - Leu - Glu - Lys - Leu - Leu - Aib - Lys - Leu - His - Thr - Ala - NH2 TYMLOS injection is supplied as a sterile , colorless , clear solution in a glass cartridge which is pre - assembled into a disposable single - patient - use pen .
The pen is intended to deliver 30 once daily abaloparatide doses of 80 mcg in 40 mcL .
Each cartridge contains 1 . 56 mL of TYMLOS solution .
Each mL contains 2000 mcg abaloparatide and the following inactive ingredients : 5 mg phenol , 5 . 08 mg sodium acetate trihydrate , 6 . 38 mg acetic acid , and water for injection .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Abaloparatide is a PTHrP ( 1 - 34 ) analog which acts as an agonist at the PTH1 receptor ( PTH1R ) .
This results in activation of the cAMP signaling pathway in target cells .
Once - daily administration of abaloparatide stimulates new bone formation on trabecular and cortical bone surfaces by stimulation of osteoblastic activity .
In rats and monkeys , abaloparatide had an anabolic effect on bone , demonstrated by increases in BMD and bone mineral content ( BMC ) that correlated with increases in bone strength at vertebral and / or nonvertebral sites [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on Markers of Bone Turnover A dose - finding study of abaloparatide administered once daily for 24 weeks in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis demonstrated a dose - response relationship for BMD and bone formation markers .
Daily administration of TYMLOS to postmenopausal women with osteoporosis for 18 months increased the bone formation marker serum procollagen type I N - propeptide ( sPINP ) and the bone resorption marker serum collagen type I cross - linked C - telopeptide ( sCTX ) .
The increase in geometric mean sPINP levels peaked at Month 1 at 93 % above baseline in postmenopausal women then decreased slowly over time to 45 % above baseline at Month 18 .
The increase in geometric mean sCTX levels in postmenopausal women peaked at Month 3 at 26 % above baseline then decreased to baseline levels by Month 18 .
Daily administration of TYMLOS to men with osteoporosis for 12 months increased the bone formation marker sPINP and the bone resorption marker sCTX .
The increase in geometric mean sPINP levels peaked at Month 1 at 133 % above baseline in men then decreased slowly over time to 84 % above baseline at Month 12 .
The increase in geometric mean sCTX levels in men peaked at Month 6 at 46 % above baseline and was 35 % above baseline by Month 12 .
Cardiac Electrophysiology A 4 - way cross - over thorough QT / QTc study was conducted in 55 healthy subjects who received single doses of placebo , subcutaneous doses of abaloparatide at 80 mcg and 240 mcg ( three times the recommended dose ) , and moxifloxacin 400 mg orally .
Abaloparatide increased heart rate , with a mean peak increase of 15 beats per minute ( bpm ) and 20 bpm at the first time point ( 15 minutes ) after dosing with 80 mcg and 240 mcg , respectively .
There were no clinically meaningful effects of abaloparatide on QTcI ( individually corrected QT intervals ) or cardiac electrophysiology .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following seven days of subcutaneous administration of abaloparatide 80 mcg , the mean ( SD ) abaloparatide exposure was 812 ( 118 ) pg / mL for Cmax and 1622 ( 641 ) pg ∙ hr / mL for AUC0 – 24 in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis .
Absorption The median ( range ) time to peak concentration of abaloparatide 80 mcg was 0 . 51 hr ( 0 . 25 to 0 . 52 hr ) following subcutaneous administration .
The absolute bioavailability of abaloparatide in healthy women after subcutaneous administration of an 80 mcg dose was 36 % .
Distribution The in vitro plasma protein binding of abaloparatide was approximately 70 % .
The volume of distribution was approximately 50 L . Elimination Excretion The mean ( SD ) half - life of abaloparatide is approximately 1 h .
The peptide fragments are primarily eliminated through renal excretion .
Metabolism No specific metabolism or excretion studies have been performed with TYMLOS .
The metabolism of abaloparatide is consistent with non - specific proteolytic degradation into smaller peptide fragments , followed by elimination by renal clearance .
Specific Populations Male and Female Subjects Mean serum abaloparatide concentration - time profiles observed in a study conducted in healthy men with a mean ( ± SD ) age of 53 . 1 ( ± 6 . 9 ) years were comparable to those observed in the healthy women with a mean ( ± SD ) age of 53 . 7 ( ± 7 . 1 ) years using the same dosing regimen .
Geriatric Patients No age - related differences in abaloparatide pharmacokinetics were observed in men and postmenopausal women ranging from 18 to 85 years of age .
Race No differences in abaloparatide pharmacokinetics based on race were observed in clinical trials .
Patients with Renal Impairment A single 80 mcg subcutaneous dose of abaloparatide was administered to male and female patients with renal impairment : 8 patients with mild renal impairment ( CLCr 60 to 89 mL / min ) , 7 patients with moderate renal impairment ( CLCr 30 to 59 mL / min ) , 8 patients with severe renal impairment ( CLCr 15 to 29 mL / min ) , and 8 healthy subjects with normal renal function ( CLCr 90 or greater mL / min ) matched by sex , age , and body mass index ( BMI ) .
Abaloparatide Cmax increased 1 . 0 - , 1 . 3 - , and 1 . 4 - fold in patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , compared to the healthy subjects with normal renal function .
Abaloparatide AUC increased 1 . 2 - , 1 . 7 - , and 2 . 1 - fold in patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , compared to the healthy subjects with normal renal function .
Patients undergoing dialysis were not included in the study .
Drug Interactions In vitro studies showed that abaloparatide , at therapeutic concentrations , does not inhibit or induce Cytochrome P450 enzymes .
Abaloparatide is not a substrate of the renal transporters OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , MATE1 , or MATE2K .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti - drug antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies , including those of abaloparatide or of other abaloparatide products .
Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis Of the patients receiving TYMLOS for 18 months , 41 % ( 318 / 773 ) developed anti - abaloparatide antibodies , and 26 % ( 204 / 773 ) developed neutralizing antibodies to abaloparatide .
Of the patients with anti - abaloparatide antibodies tested for cross - reactivity , 2 . 4 % ( 7 / 297 ) developed cross - reactivity to PTHrP , of which 3 of the 7 patients developed neutralizing antibodies to PTHrP .
Only 0 . 3 % ( 1 / 297 ) developed cross - reactive antibodies to PTH , which were not neutralizing to PTH .
Antibody formation did not appear to have any clinically significant impact on safety or efficacy endpoints , including bone mineral density ( BMD ) response , fracture reduction , or adverse events .
Most of the patients with anti - abaloparatide antibodies during treatment with TYMLOS , 86 % ( 275 / 318 ) , had follow - up antibody measurements every six months after completion of TYMLOS therapy until seroconverting to antibody negative or lost to follow - up .
Among these patients , 127 remained antibody positive at 1 year after discontinuing treatment , 55 remained antibody positive at 2 years , and 6 remained antibody positive at 3 years .
Men with Osteoporosis Of the male patients receiving TYMLOS for 12 months , 25 % ( 36 / 142 ) developed anti - abaloparatide antibodies and 1 . 4 % ( 2 / 142 ) developed neutralizing antibodies to abaloparatide .
Of the patients with anti - abaloparatide antibodies tested for cross - reactivity , none developed cross - reactivity to PTHrP or PTH .
Antibody formation did not appear to have any clinically significant impact on safety or efficacy endpoints , including bone mineral density ( BMD ) response or adverse events .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study , abaloparatide was administered once daily to male and female Fischer rats by subcutaneous injection at doses of 10 , 25 , and 50 mcg / kg .
These doses resulted in systemic exposures to abaloparatide that were 4 , 16 , and 28 times , respectively , the systemic exposure observed in humans following the recommended subcutaneous dose of 80 mcg ( based on AUC comparisons ) .
Neoplastic changes related to treatment with abaloparatide consisted of marked dose - dependent increases in osteosarcoma and osteoblastoma incidence in all male and female dose groups .
The incidence of osteosarcoma was 0 - 2 % in untreated controls and reached 87 % and 62 % in male and female high - dose groups , respectively .
The bone neoplasms were accompanied by marked increases in bone mass .
The relevance of the rat findings to humans is uncertain .
The use of TYMLOS is not recommended in patients at increased risk of osteosarcoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Mutagenesis Abaloparatide was not genotoxic or mutagenic in a standard battery of tests including the Ames test for bacterial mutagenesis , the chromosome aberration test using human peripheral lymphocytes , and the mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility Abaloparatide effects on female fertility have not been assessed nonclinically .
No adverse effects of abaloparatide on male fertility were observed in male rats .
In a male rat fertility study , abaloparatide was administered via subcutaneous injection 2 weeks prior to mating , through the mating period and for approximately 2 weeks after the mating period ( for total of 6 weeks ) at doses of 10 , 25 and 70 µg / kg / day .
Abaloparatide did not cause adverse effect on mating , fertility indices , conception rate , reproductive organ weights or sperm parameters up to 70 µg / kg / day ( 28 - fold the systemic exposure observed in humans following the recommended subcutaneous dose of 80 mcg ( based on AUC comparisons ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and Pharmacology In toxicity studies in rats and monkeys of up to 26 - week and 39 - week duration , respectively , findings included vasodilation , increases in serum calcium , decreases in serum phosphorus , and soft tissue mineralization at doses ≥ 10 mcg / kg / day .
The 10 mcg / kg / day dose resulted in systemic exposures to abaloparatide in rats and monkeys that were 2 and 3 times , respectively , the exposure in humans at daily subcutaneous doses of 80 mcg .
Pharmacologic effects of abaloparatide on the skeleton were assessed in 12 - and 16 - month studies in ovariectomized ( OVX ) rats and monkeys , at doses up to 11 - and 1 - times human exposure at the recommended subcutaneous dose of 80 mcg , respectively ( based on AUC comparisons ) .
In these animal models of postmenopausal osteoporosis , treatment with abaloparatide resulted in dose - dependent increases in bone mass at vertebral and / or nonvertebral sites , correlating with increases in bone strength .
The anabolic effect of abaloparatide was due to the predominant increase in osteoblastic bone formation and was evidenced by increases in trabecular thickness and / or cortical thickness due to endosteal bone apposition .
Abaloparatide maintained or improved bone quality at all skeletal sites evaluated and did not cause any mineralization defects .
In an 8 - week study in androgen - deficient orchiectomized ( ORX ) male rats , a male osteoporosis model , the effects of 5 and 25 mcg / kg / day abaloparatide ( ≥ 47 - fold clinical exposures by AUC ) were examined on bone formation , bone mass , and bone strength .
Abaloparatide induced bone formation and improved cortical and trabecular BMD , geometry , and architecture without increasing parameters of bone resorption .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Efficacy Study in Women with Postmenopausal Osteoporosis The efficacy of TYMLOS for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was evaluated in Study 003 ( NCT 01343004 ) , an 18 - month , randomized , multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in postmenopausal women aged 49 to 86 years ( mean age of 69 ) who were randomized to receive TYMLOS 80 mcg ( N = 824 ) or placebo ( N = 821 ) given subcutaneously once daily .
Approximately 80 % of patients were Caucasian , 16 % were Asian , and 3 % were Black ; 24 % were Hispanic .
At baseline , the mean T - scores were - 2 . 9 at the lumbar spine , - 2 . 1 at the femoral neck , and - 1 . 9 at the total hip .
At baseline , 24 % of patients had at least one prevalent vertebral fracture and 48 % had at least one prior nonvertebral fracture .
Patients took daily supplemental calcium ( 500 to 1000 mg ) and vitamin D ( 400 to 800 IU ) .
The efficacy study was extended as Study 005 ( NCT 01657162 ) , an open - label study where patients were no longer receiving TYMLOS or placebo but were maintained in their original randomized treatment group and received 70 mg alendronate weekly , with calcium and vitamin D supplements for 6 months .
Study 005 enrolled 1139 patients , representing 92 % of patients who completed Study 003 .
This included 558 patients who had previously received TYMLOS and 581 patients who had previously received placebo .
The cumulative 25 - month efficacy dataset included 18 months of exposure to TYMLOS or placebo in Study 003 , 1 month of no treatment , followed by 6 months of alendronate therapy in Study 005 .
Study 005 was then continued to complete 18 months of additional alendronate exposure during which time patients were no longer blinded to their original Study 003 treatment group .
Effect on New Vertebral Fractures The primary endpoint was the incidence of new vertebral fractures in patients treated with TYMLOS compared to placebo .
TYMLOS resulted in a significant reduction in the incidence of new vertebral fractures compared to placebo at 18 months ( 0 . 6 % TYMLOS compared to 4 . 2 % placebo , p < 0 . 0001 ) .
The absolute risk reduction in new vertebral fractures was 3 . 6 % at 18 months and the relative risk reduction was 86 % for TYMLOS compared to placebo ( Table 3 ) .
The incidence of new vertebral fractures at 25 months was 0 . 6 % in patients treated with TYMLOS then alendronate , compared to 4 . 4 % in patients treated with placebo then alendronate ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
The relative risk reduction in new vertebral fractures at 25 months was 87 % for patients treated with TYMLOS then alendronate , compared to patients treated with placebo then alendronate , and the absolute risk reduction was 3 . 9 % ( Table 3 ) .
After 24 months of open - label alendronate therapy , the vertebral fracture risk reduction achieved with TYMLOS therapy was maintained .
Table 3 : Percentage of Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis with New Vertebral Fractures ( modified Intent to Treat Population ) [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Percentage of Postmenopausal Women With Fractures Absolute Risk Reduction ( % ) ( 95 % CI [ 3 ] ) Relative Risk Reduction ( % ) ( 95 % CI null ) TYMLOS ( N = 690 null ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 711 null ) ( % ) 0 - 18 months 0 . 6 4 . 2 3 . 6 ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) 86 ( 61 , 95 ) TYMLOS / Alendronate ( N = 544 null ) ( % ) Placebo / Alendronate ( N = 568 null ) ( % ) 0 - 25 months 0 . 6 4 . 4 3 . 9 ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 9 ) 87 ( 59 , 96 ) [ 1 ] Includes patients who had both pre - and post - treatment spine radiographs in Study 003 [ 2 ] Includes patients who had both pre - and post - treatment spine radiographs in Study 005 [ 3 ] Confidence Interval Effect on Nonvertebral Fractures TYMLOS resulted in a significant reduction in the incidence of nonvertebral fractures at the end of the 18 months of treatment plus 1 month follow - up where no drug was administered ( 2 . 7 % for TYMLOS - treated patients compared to 4 . 7 % for placebo - treated patients ) .
The relative risk reduction in nonvertebral fractures for TYMLOS compared to placebo was 43 % ( logrank test p = 0 . 049 ) and the absolute risk reduction was 2 . 0 % .
Following 6 months of alendronate treatment in Study 005 , the cumulative incidence of nonvertebral fractures at 25 months was 2 . 7 % for women in the prior TYMLOS group compared to 5 . 6 % for women in the prior placebo group ( Figure 1 ) .
At 25 months , the relative risk reduction in nonvertebral fractures was 52 % ( logrank test p = 0 . 017 ) and the absolute risk reduction was 2 . 9 % .
Figure 1 : Cumulative Incidence of Nonvertebral Fractures [ 1 ] over 25 Months ( Intent to Treat Population ) [ 2 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TYMLOS demonstrated consistent reductions in the risk of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures regardless of age , years since menopause , presence or absence of prior fracture ( vertebral , nonvertebral ) , and BMD at baseline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effect on Bone Mineral Density ( BMD ) Treatment with TYMLOS for 18 months in Study 003 resulted in significant increases in BMD compared to placebo at the lumbar spine , total hip , and femoral neck , each with p < 0 . 0001 ( Table 4 ) .
Similar findings were seen following 6 months of alendronate treatment in Study 005 ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Mean Percent Changes in Bone Mineral Density ( BMD ) From Baseline to Endpoint in Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis ( Intent to Treat Population ) * † ‡ * Includes patients randomized in Study 003 † Includes patients enrolled in Study 005 ‡ Last - observation - carried - forward § Confidence Interval TYMLOS ( N = 824 * ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 821 * ) ( % ) Treatment Difference ( % ) ( 95 % CI § ) 18 Months Lumbar Spine 9 . 2 0 . 5 8 . 8 ( 8 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) Total Hip 3 . 4 - 0 . 1 3 . 5 ( 3 . 3 , 3 . 8 ) Femoral Neck 2 . 9 - 0 . 4 3 . 3 ( 3 . 0 , 3 . 7 ) TYMLOS / Alendronate ( N = 558 † ) ( % ) Placebo / Alendronate ( N = 581 † ) ( % ) 25 Months Lumbar Spine 12 . 8 3 . 5 9 . 3 ( 8 . 6 , 10 . 1 ) Total Hip 5 . 5 1 . 4 4 . 1 ( 3 . 7 , 4 . 5 ) Femoral Neck 4 . 5 0 . 5 4 . 1 ( 3 . 6 , 4 . 6 ) There was no evidence of differences in the effects of TYMLOS on BMD across subgroups defined by age , years since menopause , race , ethnicity , geographic region , presence or absence of prior fracture ( vertebral , nonvertebral ) , and BMD at baseline .
Effect on Bone Histology Bone biopsy specimens were obtained from 71 patients with osteoporosis after 12 – 18 months of treatment ( 36 in the TYMLOS group and 35 in the placebo group ) .
Of the biopsies obtained , 55 were adequate for quantitative histomorphometry assessment ( 27 in the TYMLOS group and 28 in the placebo group ) .
Qualitative and quantitative histology assessment showed normal bone architecture and no evidence of woven bone , marrow fibrosis , or mineralization defects .
[ 1 ] Excludes fractures of the sternum , patella , toes , fingers , skull and face and those associated with high trauma .
[ 2 ] Includes patients randomized in Study 003 14 . 2 Men with Osteoporosis The efficacy of TYMLOS for the treatment of men with osteoporosis was evaluated in Study 019 ( NCT 03512262 ) , a 12 - month , randomized , multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in men aged 42 to 85 years ( mean age of 68 ) who were randomized to receive TYMLOS 80 mcg ( N = 149 ) or placebo ( N = 79 ) given subcutaneously once daily .
Approximately 95 % of patients were Caucasian , 4 % were Asian , and < 1 % ( 0 . 4 % ) were Black ; 16 % were Hispanic .
At baseline , the mean T - scores were - 2 . 1 at the lumbar spine , - 2 . 1 at the femoral neck , and - 1 . 7 at the total hip .
Patients took daily supplemental calcium ( 500 to 1000 mg ) and vitamin D ( 400 to 800 IU ) .
Effect on Bone Mineral Density ( BMD ) The primary endpoint was the percent change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at 12 months in patients treated with TYMLOS compared to placebo .
Treatment with TYMLOS for 12 months in Study 019 resulted in significant increases in BMD compared to placebo at the lumbar spine , total hip , and femoral neck , each with p < 0 . 0001 ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 : Mean Percent Changes in Bone Mineral Density ( BMD ) From Baseline to 12 Months in Men with Osteoporosis ( Intent to Treat Population ) TYMLOS ( N = 149 [ 1 ] ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 79 null ) ( % ) Treatment Difference ( % ) ( 99 % CI [ 2 ] ) 12 Months Lumbar Spine 8 . 5 1 . 2 7 . 3 ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 6 ) Total Hip 2 . 1 < 0 . 1 2 . 1 ( 1 . 0 , 3 . 2 ) Femoral Neck 3 . 0 0 . 2 2 . 8 ( 1 . 4 , 4 . 2 ) [ 1 ] Includes patients randomized in Study 019 [ 2 ] Confidence Interval There was no evidence of differences in the effects of TYMLOS on BMD at Month 12 across subgroups defined by age , race , ethnicity , geographic region , presence or absence of prior fracture , and BMD at baseline .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied TYMLOS ( abaloparatide injection ) is a clear and colorless solution , available as a pre - assembled single - patient - use disposable pen ( NDC 70539 - 001 - 01 ) packaged in a cardboard carton ( NDC 70539 - 001 - 02 ) with the Instructions for Use and Medication Guide .
Each disposable pen embodies a glass cartridge that contains 3120 mcg of abaloparatide in 1 . 56 mL ( 2000 mcg / mL ) .
Each pen provides a 30 - day supply for once daily injection of 80 mcg abaloparatide in 40 mcL .
Sterile needles are not included .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling • Before first use , store TYMLOS under refrigeration between 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
• After first use , store for up to 30 days at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
• Do not freeze or subject to heat .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) .
Risk of Osteosarcoma Advise patients that the active ingredient in TYMLOS , abaloparatide , caused a dose - dependent increase in the incidence of osteosarcoma in male and female rats and that it is unknown whether TYMLOS will cause osteosarcoma in humans [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients to promptly report signs and symptoms of possible osteosarcoma such as persistent localized pain or occurrence of a new soft tissue mass that is tender to palpation .
Hypercalcemia Advise patients that TYMLOS may cause hypercalcemia and discuss the symptoms of hypercalcemia ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , constipation , lethargy , muscle weakness ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients to promptly report signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia .
Orthostatic Hypotension Advise patients to sit or lie down if they feel lightheaded or have palpitations after the injection until their symptoms resolve .
If these symptoms persist or worsen , advise patients to consult their healthcare provider before continuing treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction including anaphylaxis , dyspnea , or urticaria [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Use of TYMLOS Pen Instruct patients and caregivers who administer TYMLOS on how to properly use the TYMLOS pen and to follow sharps disposal recommendations [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients not to share their TYMLOS pen or needles with other patients and not to transfer the contents of the pen to a syringe .
Advise patients that each TYMLOS pen can be used for up to 30 days , and after the 30 - day use period , to discard the TYMLOS pen , even if it still contains unused solution [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured in Germany for : Radius Health , Inc .
22 Boston Wharf Road , 7 th Floor Boston , MA 02210 TYMLOS is a registered trademark of Radius Health , Inc .
Copyright © 2022 , Radius Health , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Revised : December 2022 US - PI - 000001 - v7 . 0 MEDICATION GUIDE TYMLOS ® ( tim lows ' ) ( abaloparatide ) injection , for subcutaneous use What is the most important information I should know about TYMLOS ?
TYMLOS may cause serious side effects including : • Possible bone cancer ( osteosarcoma ) .
During animal drug testing , the medicine in TYMLOS caused some rats to develop a bone cancer called osteosarcoma .
It is not known if people who take TYMLOS will have a higher chance of getting osteosarcoma .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have pain in your bones , pain in any areas of your body that does not go away , or any new or unusual lumps or swelling under your skin that is tender to touch .
What is TYMLOS ? TYMLOS is a prescription medicine used to : • treat osteoporosis in postmenopausal women who are at high risk for bone fracture , or who cannot use another osteoporosis treatment or other osteoporosis treatments did not work well .
TYMLOS can decrease the chance of having a fracture of the spine and other bones in postmenopausal women with thinning and weakening bones ( osteoporosis ) • increase bone density in men with osteoporosis who are at high risk for bone fracture , or who cannot use another osteoporosis treatment or other osteoporosis treatments did not work well It is not known if TYMLOS is safe and effective for children 18 years and younger . TYMLOS should not be used in children and young adults whose bones are still growing .
It is not recommended that people use TYMLOS for more than 2 years during their lifetime .
Do not take TYMLOS : • if you had an allergic reaction to abaloparatide , or any of the other ingredients in TYMLOS .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in TYMLOS .
Before you take TYMLOS , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have Paget ' s disease of the bone or other bone disease .
• have or have had cancer in your bones .
• have or have had radiation therapy involving your bones .
• have or have had too much calcium in your blood .
• have or have had an increase in your parathyroid hormone ( hyperparathyroidism ) .
• will have trouble injecting yourself with the TYMLOS pen and do not have someone who can help you .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
TYMLOS is not for pregnant women .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TYMLOS passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take TYMLOS or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I use TYMLOS ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use provided with your medicine .
• Use TYMLOS exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Do not try to inject TYMLOS yourself until you or your caregiver receive training from a healthcare provider on the right way to use the TYMLOS pen .
• You should receive your first several injections of TYMLOS where you can sit or lie down , if necessary , until you know how it affects you .
• Inject TYMLOS 1 time each day into your lower stomach area ( abdomen ) just under your skin ( subcutaneous ) .
Avoid giving your injection within the 2 - inch area around your belly button ( navel ) .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about how to change ( rotate ) your injection site for each injection .
Do not give TYMLOS in your veins ( intravenously ) or deep into your muscles ( intramuscularly ) .
• You can take TYMLOS with or without food or drink .
• Take TYMLOS at about the same time each day .
• If you forget or cannot take TYMLOS at your usual time , take it as soon as you can on that day .
• The TYMLOS pen has enough medicine for 30 days .
It is set to give 1 dose of medicine with each injection .
Do not take more than 1 injection in the same day .
• Do not transfer the medicine from the TYMLOS pen to a syringe .
This can cause you to use the wrong dose of TYMLOS .
If you do not have pen needles to use with your TYMLOS pen , talk with your healthcare provider .
• Do not share your TYMLOS pen or pen needles with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
• TYMLOS should look clear and colorless .
Do not use TYMLOS if it has particles in it , or if it is cloudy or colored .
• Your healthcare provider may do blood and urine tests during your treatment with TYMLOS .
• Your healthcare provider may ask you to have a bone mineral density test after your treatment with TYMLOS .
• If you take more TYMLOS than prescribed you may have symptoms such as muscle weakness , low energy , headache , nausea , dizziness ( especially when getting up after sitting for a while ) , and a faster heartbeat .
Stop taking TYMLOS and call your healthcare provider right away .
• You should not use TYMLOS for more than 2 years over your lifetime .
• If your healthcare provider recommends calcium and vitamin D supplements , you can take them while using TYMLOS .
What are the possible side effects of TYMLOS ? TYMLOS may cause serious side effects including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about TYMLOS ? "
• Decrease in blood pressure when you change positions .
Some people may feel dizzy , have a faster heartbeat , or feel lightheaded soon after the TYMLOS injection is given .
These symptoms generally go away within a few hours .
Take your injections of TYMLOS in a place where you can sit or lie down right away if you get these symptoms .
If your symptoms get worse or do not go away , stop taking TYMLOS and call your healthcare provider .
• Increased blood calcium ( hypercalcemia ) .
TYMLOS can cause some people to have a higher blood calcium level than normal .
Your healthcare provider may check your blood calcium before you start and during your treatment with TYMLOS .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have nausea , vomiting , constipation , low energy , or muscle weakness .
These may be signs there is too much calcium in your blood .
• Increased urine calcium ( hypercalciuria ) .
TYMLOS can cause some people to have higher levels of calcium in their urine than normal .
Increased calcium may also cause you to develop kidney stones ( urolithiasis ) in your kidneys , bladder , or urinary tract .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any symptoms of kidney stones which may include pain in your lower back or lower stomach area , pain when you urinate , or blood in your urine .
The most common side effects of TYMLOS in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis include : • dizziness • fast heartbeat • upper stomach pain • nausea • feeling tired ( fatigue ) • spinning feeling ( vertigo ) • headache The most common side effects of TYMLOS in men with osteoporosis include : • redness at injection site • pain at injection site • nausea • dizziness • bruising • abdominal pain • joint pain • abdominal bloating • bone pain • swelling at injection site • diarrhea These are not all the possible side effects of TYMLOS .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TYMLOS ?
• Before first use , store TYMLOS pens in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After first use , store your TYMLOS pen for up to 30 days at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze the TYMLOS pen or expose it to heat .
• Do not use TYMLOS after the expiration date printed on the pen and packaging .
• Throw away the TYMLOS pen after 30 days even if some medicine is left in the pen ( see " Instructions for Use " ) .
Keep TYMLOS and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of TYMLOS .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use TYMLOS for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TYMLOS to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TYMLOS that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TYMLOS ?
Active ingredient : abaloparatide Inactive ingredients : phenol , sodium acetate trihydrate , acetic acid , and water for injection .
Radius Health , Inc . , 22 Boston Wharf Road , 7 th Floor , Boston , MA 02210 TYMLOS is a registered trademark of Radius Health , Inc .
US - MG - 000001 v6 . 0 Copyright © 2022 , Radius Health , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information about TYMLOS , visit our website at www . TYMLOS . com or call Radius Health , Inc . , at 1 - 855 - 672 - 3487 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 12 / 2022 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE TYMLOS ® ( tim lows ' ) ( abaloparatide ) injection , for subcutaneous use Instructions for Use Read and follow this Instructions for Use so that you inject TYMLOS pen the right way .
Call your healthcare provider if you have any questions about the right way to inject the TYMLOS pen .
Important information about your TYMLOS pen • Do not try to inject TYMLOS yourself until you or your caregiver receive training from a healthcare provider on the right way to use TYMLOS pen .
• Do not share your TYMLOS pen or pen needles with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
• Each TYMLOS pen is a prefilled pen containing 30 doses of TYMLOS .
Each dose will contain 80 mcg of TYMLOS .
You do not have to measure your dose .
The pen measures each dose of TYMLOS for you .
• Use a new pen needle for each injection .
Keep the cap on the TYMLOS pen when not using the pen .
• Before using the pen always check the label to be sure it is your TYMLOS pen .
• Do not use your TYMLOS pen if it looks damaged .
If you drop your TYMLOS pen or it becomes damaged , call your healthcare provider or pharmacist or call 1 - 855 - 672 - 3487 .
• To clean your TYMLOS pen , wipe the outside of the pen with a clean , damp cloth , if needed .
• The TYMLOS pen is not recommended for use by the blind or visually impaired without the help of a person trained in the right way to use the pen .
Pen needles to use with your TYMLOS pen • Pen needles are not included with your TYMLOS pen .
You will need a prescription from your healthcare provider to get pen needles from your pharmacy .
• The correct needles to use with your TYMLOS pen are 5 to 8 mm , 31 - gauge needles .
Compatible needles include Clickfine ® , BD Ultra - Fine ™ , MedtFine ® , Easy Comfort , Clever Choice ™ Comfort EZ ™ , and SureComfort ™ .
If you are not sure what type of needle to use , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Supplies you will need for each injection using your TYMLOS pen • 1 TYMLOS pen • 1 pen needle • 1 alcohol swab • 1 cotton ball or gauze pad • 1 sharps disposal container for pen needles and TYMLOS pens .
See " How should I throw away ( dispose ) of the pen needles and TYMLOS pens ? "
in the far right column .
How should I store the TYMLOS pen ?
• Before first use , store TYMLOS pens in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not store pens with the needle attached .
• Do not freeze the TYMLOS pen or expose it to heat .
During 30 days of use : • After first use , store the TYMLOS pen for up to 30 days at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep the pen cap on your TYMLOS pen when storing .
Do not store the TYMLOS pen with needle attached .
• Use your TYMLOS pen for only 30 days .
• Write down the date of your first use of TYMLOS here : _____ / _____ / _____ .
Throw away your TYMLOS pen 30 days after first opening it even if it still contains unused medicine .
Keep the TYMLOS pen , pen needles and all medicines out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I throw away ( dispose ) of the pen needles and TYMLOS pens ?
• Throw away ( dispose of ) your TYMLOS pen , in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container or puncture resistant container , 30 days after first opening it even if it still contains unused medicine .
• Put your used pen needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) your used sharps disposal container in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles , syringes , and prefilled syringes .
• For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to FDA ' s website at : https : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
For more information about the TYMLOS pen For more information , go to www . TYMLOS . com or call 1 - 855 - 672 - 3487 .
Manufactured in Germany .
Radius Radius Health , Inc .
22 Boston Wharf Road , 7 th Floor Boston , MA 02210 TYMLOS is a registered trademark of Radius Health , Inc .
US - IFU - 000001 - v6 . 0 Begin the injection .
Check the TYMLOS ® pen Step 1 .
Wash and dry your hands .
Step 2 .
Check the expiration date ( Exp . )
on the TYMLOS pen .
• Do not use the pen if the expiration date has passed .
• Call your healthcare provider or pharmacist if the expiration date has passed .
Attach pen needle to your TYMLOS pen Step 3 .
Pull off the pen cap from your TYMLOS pen .
( See Figure D . ) • Check the TYMLOS cartridge .
The liquid should be clear , colorless , and free of particles ; if not , do not use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Pull off the protective paper from the outer needle cap of your pen needle .
( See Figure E . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Keep the needle straight and screw it onto the pen until fixed ; a secure fit is ensured even if there is no noticeable stop .
Do not over - tighten .
( See Figure F . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 .
Pull off the outer pen needle cap from the pen needle and keep it to use after your injection .
( See Figure G . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 .
Carefully pull off the inner pen needle cap and dispose of it .
( See Figure H . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 .
If you are using this pen for the first time , go to the " New pen setup - Day 1 Only " section to prime your pen .
• If you have already used this pen before , go to Step 13 for Days 2 through 30 .
New pen setup – Day 1 Only ( Priming your TYMLOS pen ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not repeat new pen setup on Days 2 through 30 .
Step 9 .
The " New pen setup " removes air bubbles ( primes your pen ) .
You only need to prime your pen on Day 1 for each new pen .
Otherwise , you will waste medicine .
• Skip Steps 10 through 12 on Days 2 through 30 .
Step 10 .
Turn the dose knob on your TYMLOS pen away from you ( clockwise ) until it stops .
( See Figure I . ) Note : You will see " • 80 " lined up in the dose display window .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 .
Hold the TYMLOS pen with the pen needle pointing up .
Tap lightly with your finger on the cartridge holder to move any air bubbles in the cartridge to the top of the cartridge .
( See Figure J . ) Note : Do Step 11 even if you do not see air bubbles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 .
Press the green injection button until it will not go any further .
( See Figure K ) .
Note : You should see liquid come out of the needle tip .
Note : You will see " • 0 " lined up in the dose display window .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What should I do if liquid does not come out of the needle tip ?
• If you do not see a drop of TYMLOS , repeat Steps 10 through 12 .
A drop of liquid should come out of the needle tip .
• If you still do not see a drop of liquid call your healthcare provider or pharmacist and use a new TYMLOS pen .
• When you are ready to use your new TYMLOS pen for the first time , remember to repeat all Steps 9 through 12 to prime your new TYMLOS pen .
Set the dose on your TYMLOS pen Do not push the green injection button while setting your dose .
Step 13 .
Turn the dose knob on your pen away from you ( clockwise ) until the dose knob stops and " • 80 " is lined up in the dose display window .
( See Figure L . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] If you set the dose before you are ready to give your injection , turn the dose knob toward you ( counter - clockwise ) until " • 0 " is in the dose display window .
If you are not able to set the TYMLOS pen to " • 80 " , dispose of the pen and use a new TYMLOS pen for your injection , repeating Steps 1 through 13 .
• If the pen cannot be set to " • 80 " , there is not enough medicine in the TYMLOS pen for your full dose .
See " How should I throw away ( dispose ) of the pen needles and TYMLOS pens ? "
on the other side .
Choose and clean your injection site Step 14 .
Injections should be given in the lower stomach area ( abdomen ) .
( See Figure M . ) Avoid the 2 - inch area around your belly button ( navel ) .
For each injection , change ( rotate ) your injection site around your abdomen .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to change ( rotate ) your injection site for each injection .
Do not use the same injection area for each injection .
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , scaly , or hard .
Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 15 .
Wipe the injection site with an alcohol swab and allow it to dry .
Do not touch , fan , or blow on the injection site after you have cleaned it .
Giving your TYMLOS pen injection Read Step 16 and Step 17 before you give your injection .
Inject your TYMLOS pen the way your healthcare provider has shown you .
Step 16 .
( See Figure N . ) • Hold the pen so you can see the dose display window during the injection .
• Insert the pen needle straight into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 17 .
( See Figure O . ) • Press the green injection button until it cannot go any further and " • 0 " is in the dose display window .
Do not move the TYMLOS pen after inserting the needle .
• Continue to press the green injection button while counting to 10 .
Counting to 10 will allow the full dose of TYMLOS to be given .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 18 .
After counting to 10 , release your finger from the green injection button and slowly remove the TYMLOS pen from the injection site by pulling the pen needle straight out .
Remove the pen needle Step 19 .
Carefully place the outer needle cap back on the pen needle .
Press on the outer needle cap until it snaps into place and is secure .
( See Figure P . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Caution : To prevent needle stick injury , carefully follow Step 20 .
Step 20 .
Unscrew the capped needle ( like unscrewing a cap from a bottle ) .
To unscrew the capped needle you may need to turn it 8 or more turns and then gently pull until the capped needle comes off .
( See Figure Q . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : Do not push on the outer needle cap while unscrewing the needle .
You should see a gap widening between the outer needle cap and the pen as you unscrew the needle .
( See Figure R . ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Replace pen cap Step 21 .
Firmly replace the pen cap onto the TYMLOS pen .
( See Figure S . ) Keep the pen cap on your TYMLOS pen between injections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 22 .
Press a cotton ball or gauze pad over the injection site and hold for 10 seconds .
Do not rub the injection site .
You may have slight bleeding .
This is normal .
You may cover the injection site with a small adhesive bandage , if needed .
• Dispose of the pen needle .
See " How should I throw away ( dispose ) of the pen needles and TYMLOS pens ? "
.
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 04 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 80 mcg Prefilled Pen Label NDC 70539 - 001 - 01 Rx only Read Instructions for Use BEFORE Injecting .
Date of first use _________ / _________ / _________ .
Discard unused portion 30 days after first opening .
TYMLOS ® ( abaloparatide ) injection 80 mcg per dose 3120 mcg / 1 . 56 mL ( 2000 mcg / mL ) For subcutaneous use For Single Patient Use Only Each prefilled pen will deliver 30 subcutaneous doses .
Before first use , keep in refrigerator at 2 ° C - 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
After first use , store for up to 30 days at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze or subject to heat .
Radius Mfg . for : Radius Health , Inc .
Boston , MA 02210 USA 10006074 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 80 mcg Carton Label NDC 70539 - 001 - 02 TYMLOS ® ( abaloparatide ) injection 80 mcg per dose 3120 mcg / 1 . 56 mL ( 2000 mcg / mL ) For subcutaneous use For Single Patient Use Only Rx only Sterile 1 prefilled pen Needles not included Each prefilled pen will deliver 30 subcutaneous doses .
Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide and Instructions for Use to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Sample 80 mcg Prefilled Pen Label NDC 70539 - 001 - 99 Rx only Read Instructions for Use BEFORE Injecting .
Date of first use _________ / _________ / _________ .
Discard unused portion 30 days after first opening .
TYMLOS ® ( abaloparatide ) injection 80 mcg per dose 3120 mcg / 1 . 56 mL ( 2000 mcg / mL ) For subcutaneous use For Single Patient Use Only Each prefilled pen will deliver 30 subcutaneous doses .
Before first use , keep in refrigerator at 2 ° C - 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
After first use , store for up to 30 days at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze or subject to heat .
Radius Mfg . for : Radius Health , Inc .
Boston , MA 02210 USA 10006645 - 03 SAMPLE – NOT FOR SALE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Sample 80 mcg Carton Label NDC 70539 - 001 - 98 TYMLOS ® ( abaloparatide ) injection 80 mcg per dose 3120 mcg / 1 . 56 mL ( 2000 mcg / mL ) For subcutaneous use For Single Patient Use Only Rx only SAMPLE – NOT FOR SALE Sterile 1 prefilled pen Needles not included Each prefilled pen will deliver 30 subcutaneous doses .
Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide and Instructions for Use to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
