Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Naftin ® Gel , 1 % contains the synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent naftifine hydrochloride .
Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is for topical use only .
CHEMICAL NAME ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
Naftifine hydrochloride has an empirical formula of C 21 H 21 N • HCl and a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains Active Ingredient Naftifine hydrochloride 1 % .
Inactive Ingredients Naftin ® Gel , 1 % contains polysorbate 80 , carbomer 934 P , diisopropanolamine , edetate disodium , alcohol ( 52 % v / v ) , and purified water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naftifine Hydrochloride is a synthetic allylamine derivative .
The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown .
Naftifine hydrochloride has been shown to exhibit fungicidal activity in vitro against a broad spectrum of organisms , including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , and Microsporum gypseum , and fungistatic activity against Candida species , including Candida albicans .
Naftin ® Gel , 1 % has only been shown to be clinically effective against the disease entities listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
This inhibition of enzyme activity results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
Following single topical applications of 3 H - labeled naftifine gel 1 % to the skin of healthy subjects , up to 4 . 2 % of the applied dose was absorbed .
Naftifine and / or its metabolites are excreted via the urine and feces with a half - life of approximately two to three days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans * [ 1 ] , Epidermophyton floccosum * null .
[ 1 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is for topical use only and not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General Naftin ® Gel , 1 % , is for external use only .
If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftin ® Gel , 1 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Diagnosis of the disease should be confirmed either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Information for patients The patient should be told to : • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• Keep Naftin ® Gel , 1 % away from the eyes , nose , mouth and other mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility In a 2 - year dermal carcinogenicity study , naftifine hydrochloride cream was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 1 % , 2 % and 3 % ( 10 , 20 , and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 30 mg / kg / day [ 3 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on mg / m2 comparison ] .
Naftifine hydrochloride revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Oral administration of naftifine hydrochloride to rats , throughout mating , gestation , parturition and lactation , demonstrated no effects on growth , fertility or reproduction , at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 12 times MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits ( via oral administration ) at doses 150 times or more than the topical human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to naftifine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials with Naftin ® Gel , 1 % .
the incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : burning / stinging ( 5 . 0 % ) , itching ( 1 . 0 % ) , erythema ( 0 . 5 % ) , rash ( 0 . 5 % ) , skin tenderness ( 0 . 5 % ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A sufficient quantity of Naftin ® Gel , 1 % should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
The hands should be washed after application .
If no clinical improvement is seen after four weeks of treatment with Naftin ® Gel , 1 % , the patient should be re - evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIED Naftin ® ( naftifine hydrochloride ) Gel , 1 % is supplied in collapsible tubes in the following sizes • 40 g – NDC 54766 - 770 - 40 • 60 g – NDC 54766 - 770 - 60 • 90 g – NDC 54766 - 770 - 90 Note : Store Naftin ® Gel , 1 % at room temperature .
Distributed by Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
645 Hembree Parkway , Suite I Roswell , Georgia 30076 www . sebelapharma . com Toll Free 1 - 844 - 732 - 3521 © 2018 Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
All rights reserved .
Naftin is a registered trademark of Sebela International Limited .
Rev . May 2018 PI 77040001 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 g Tube Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54766 - 770 - 40 NAFTIN ® 40 g gel NAFTIFINE HCl 1 % GEL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54766 - 770 - 60 NAFTIN ® 60 g gel NAFTIFINE HCl 1 % GEL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 g Tube Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54766 - 770 - 90 NAFTIN ® 90 g gel NAFTIFINE HCl 1 % GEL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
