RECENT MAJOR CHANGES 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Palonosetron Hydrochloride ( HCl ) Injection is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist indicated in adults for : • Moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy – prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses ( 1 . 1 ) • Highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy – prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses ( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting in Adults Palonosetron Hydrochloride ( HCl ) Injection is indicated for : • Moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy – prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses • Highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy – prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting ( 2 . 1 ) • The recommended adult dosage is 0 . 25 mg as a single intravenous dose administered over 30 seconds .
Dosing should occur approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The recommended adult dosage of Palonosetron HCl Injection is 0 . 25 mg administered as a single intravenous dose over 30 seconds .
Dosing should occur approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy .
2 . 2 Instructions for Intravenous Administration • Palonosetron HCl Injection is intended for direct intravenous administration without further dilution .
• Do not mix with other drugs .
• When applicable , flush the line with normal saline before and after administration of Palonosetron HCl Injection to ensure complete dosing and to avoid drug incompatibilities .
• Inspect Palonosetron HCl Injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is sterile , clear , and colorless : • 0 . 25 mg palonosetron in 2 mL ( 0 . 125 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial Injection : 0 . 25 mg palonosetron in 2 mL ( 0 . 125 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Palonosetron HCl Injection is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported with or without known hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists ( 5 . 1 ) • Serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists alone but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported with or without known hypersensitivity to other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
5 . 2 Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of another 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of Palonosetron HCl Injection and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue Palonosetron HCl Injection and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if Palonosetron HCl Injection is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting ( ≥ 5 % ) are headache and constipation ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact WestWard Pharmaceuticals Corp . at 18778450689 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates reported in practice .
The safety of Palonosetron HCl Injection has been established from adequate and well - controlled studies of another intravenous formulation of palonosetron HCl [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Below is a display of the adverse reactions of palonosetron HCl in these adequate and well - controlled studies .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting In clinical trials for the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy , 1374 adult patients received a single 0 . 25 mg dose of palonosetron HCl .
Adverse reactions were similar in frequency and severity with intravenous palonosetron HCl and ondansetron or dolasetron .
The following is a listing of all adverse reactions reported by ≥ 2 % of patients in these trials ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions from Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Studies ≥ 2 % in any Treatment Group Adverse Reaction Palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg Intravenous ( N = 633 ) Ondansetron 32 mg Intraveneous ( N = 410 ) Dolasetron 100 mg Intraveneous ( N = 194 ) Headache 60 ( 9 % ) 34 ( 8 % ) 32 ( 16 % ) Constipation 29 ( 5 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) 12 ( 6 % ) Diarrhea 8 ( 1 % ) 7 ( 2 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Dizziness 8 ( 1 % ) 9 ( 2 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Fatigue 3 ( < 1 % ) 4 ( 1 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Abdominal Pain 1 ( < 1 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 3 ( 2 % ) Insomnia 1 ( < 1 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 3 ( 2 % ) In other studies , 2 patients experienced severe constipation following a single palonosetron HCl dose of approximately 0 . 75 mg , three times the recommended dose .
In clinical trials , the following infrequently reported adverse reactions , assessed by investigators as treatment - related or causality unknown , occurred following administration of palonosetron HCl to adult patients receiving concomitant cancer chemotherapy : Cardiovascular : 1 % : non - sustained tachycardia , bradycardia , hypotension , < 1 % : hypertension , myocardial ischemia , extrasystoles , sinus tachycardia , sinus arrhythmia , supraventricular extrasystoles and QT prolongation .
In many cases , the relationship to palonosetron was unclear .
Dermatological : < 1 % : allergic dermatitis , rash .
Hearing and Vision : < 1 % : motion sickness , tinnitus , eye irritation and amblyopia .
Gastrointestinal System : 1 % : diarrhea , < 1 % : dyspepsia , abdominal pain , dry mouth , hiccups and flatulence .
General : 1 % : weakness , < 1 % : fatigue , fever , hot flash , flu - like syndrome .
Liver : < 1 % : transient , asymptomatic increases in AST and / or ALT and bilirubin .
These changes occurred predominantly in patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy .
Metabolic : 1 % : hyperkalemia , < 1 % : electrolyte fluctuations , hyperglycemia , metabolic acidosis , glycosuria , appetite decrease , anorexia .
Musculoskeletal : < 1 % : arthralgia .
Nervous System : 1 % : dizziness , < 1 % : somnolence , insomnia , hypersomnia , paresthesia .
Psychiatric : 1 % : anxiety , < 1 % : euphoric mood .
Urinary System : < 1 % : urinary retention .
Vascular : < 1 % : vein discoloration , vein distention .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of another intravenous formulation of palonosetron HCl .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Very rare cases ( < 1 / 10 , 000 ) of hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock and injection site reactions ( burning , induration , discomfort and pain ) were reported from postmarketing experience of palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg in the prevention of chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Serotonergic Drugs : Monitor for serotonin syndrome ; if symptoms occur , discontinue Palonosetron HCl Injection and initiate supportive treatment ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
If symptoms occur , discontinue Palonosetron HCl Injection and initiate supportive treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on palonosetron HCl use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed with the administration of oral palonosetron HCl to rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 1894 and 3789 times the recommended human intravenous dose , respectively [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed in pregnant rats given oral palonosetron HCl at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( 1894 times the recommended human intravenous dose based on body surface area ) or pregnant rabbits given oral doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( 3789 times the recommended human intravenous dose based on body surface area ) during the period of organogenesis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of palonosetron in human milk , the effects of palonosetron on the breastfed infant , or the effects of palonosetron on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Palonosetron HCl Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from palonosetron or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use This product has not been approved for use in pediatric patients for prevention of chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1374 adult cancer patients in clinical studies of intravenously administered palonosetron HCl for CINV , 316 ( 23 % ) were aged 65 years and over , while 71 ( 5 % ) were aged 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and the younger subjects , but greater sensitivity in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Population pharmacokinetics analysis did not reveal any differences in palonosetron pharmacokinetics between cancer patients aged 65 years and older and younger patients ( 18 to 64 years ) .
No dose adjustment or special monitoring are required for geriatric patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote to palonosetron HCl .
Overdose should be managed with supportive care .
Dialysis studies have not been performed ; however , due to the large volume of distribution , dialysis is unlikely to be an effective treatment for palonosetron HCl overdose .
A single intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl at 30 mg / kg ( 947 and 474 times the human dose for rats and mice , respectively , based on body surface area ) was lethal to rats and mice .
The major signs of toxicity were convulsions , gasping , pallor , cyanosis and collapse .
11 DESCRIPTION Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection contains palonosetron as palonosetron HCl , an antiemetic and antinauseant agent .
It is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor .
Chemically , palonosetron HCl is : ( 3 aS ) - 2 - [ ( S ) - 1 - Azabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] oct - 3 - yl ] - 2 , 3 , 3 a , 4 , 5 , 6 hexahydro - 1 - oxo - 1 Hbenz [ de ] isoquinoline hydrochloride .
The empirical formula is C19H24N2O • HCl , with a molecular weight of 332 . 87 .
Palonosetron HCl exists as a single isomer and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Palonosetron HCl is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in propylene glycol , and slightly soluble in ethanol and 2 - propanol .
Palonosetron HCl Injection is a sterile , clear , colorless , non - pyrogenic , non - buffered , hypotonic solution for intravenous administration .
Palonosetron HCl Injection contains no preservative or chelating agent .
Palonosetron HCl Injection is available as 2 mL single - dose vial .
Each 2 mL vial contains 0 . 25 mg palonosetron base equivalent to 0 . 28 mg palonosetron HCl , and water for intravenous administration .
The pH of the solution in the 2 mL vial is 6 . 5 to 8 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Palonosetron is a 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor and little or no affinity for other receptors .
Cancer chemotherapy may be associated with a high incidence of nausea and vomiting , particularly when certain agents , such as cisplatin , are used .
5 - HT3 receptors are located on the nerve terminals of the vagus in the periphery and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is thought that chemotherapeutic agents produce nausea and vomiting by releasing serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine and that the released serotonin then activates 5 - HT3 receptors located on vagal afferents to initiate the vomiting reflex .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of intravenous palonosetron HCl on blood pressure , heart rate , and ECG parameters including QTc were comparable to intravenous ondansetron and dolasetron in CINV clinical trials .
In non - clinical studies palonosetron possesses the ability to block ion channels involved in ventricular de - and re - polarization and to prolong action potential duration .
The effect of palonosetron on QTc interval was evaluated in a double blind , randomized , parallel , placebo and positive ( moxifloxacin ) controlled trial in adult men and women .
The objective was to evaluate the ECG effects of intravenously administered palonosetron HCl at single doses of 0 . 25 , 0 . 75 or 2 . 25 mg in 221 healthy subjects .
At a dose 9 times the maximum recommended dose , palonosetron did not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After intravenous dosing of palonosetron HCl in healthy subjects and cancer patients , an initial decline in plasma concentrations is followed by a slow elimination from the body .
Mean maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC0 - ∞ ) are generally dose - proportional over the dose range of 0 . 3 to 90 mcg / kg in healthy subjects and in cancer patients .
Following a single intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl at 3 mcg / kg ( or 0 . 21 mg / 70 kg ) to six cancer patients , the mean ( ± SD ) maximum plasma concentration was estimated to be 5630 ± 5480 ng / L and the mean AUC was 35 . 8 ± 20 . 9 h • mcg / L .
Following intravenous administration of palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg once every other day for 3 doses in 11 cancer patients , the mean increase in plasma palonosetron concentration from Day 1 to Day 5 was 42 ± 34 % .
Following intravenous administration of palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg once daily for 3 days in 12 healthy subjects , the mean ( ± SD ) increase in plasma palonosetron concentration from Day 1 to Day 3 was 110 ± 45 % .
Distribution Palonosetron has a volume of distribution of approximately 8 . 3 ± 2 . 5 L / kg .
Approximately 62 % of palonosetron is bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination After a single intravenous dose of 10 mcg / kg [ 14 C ] - palonosetron HCl , approximately 80 % of the dose was recovered within 144 hours in the urine with palonosetron representing approximately 40 % of the administered dose .
In healthy subjects , the total body clearance of palonosetron was 0 . 160 ± 0 . 035 L / h / kg and renal clearance was 0 . 067 ± 0 . 018 L / h / kg .
The mean terminal elimination half - life is approximately 40 hours .
Metabolism Palonosetron is eliminated by multiple routes with approximately 50 % metabolized to form two primary metabolites : N - oxide - palonosetron and 6 - S - hydroxy - palonosetron .
These metabolites each have less than 1 % of the 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist activity of palonosetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have suggested that CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent , CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are involved in the metabolism of palonosetron .
However , clinical pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly different between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates .
Excretion Palonosetron is partially eliminated from the body through renal excretion .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron pharmacokinetic parameters .
Total systemic exposure increased by approximately 28 % in patients with severe renal impairment relative to healthy subjects .
This increase is not considered clinically meaningful .
Hepatic Impairment Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect total body clearance of palonosetron compared to the healthy subjects .
Race / Ethnicity The pharmacokinetics of palonosetron were characterized in twenty - four healthy Japanese subjects over the dose range of 3 to 90 mcg / kg .
Total body clearance was 25 % higher in Japanese subjects compared to Whites ; however , no dose adjustment is required .
The pharmacokinetics of palonosetron in Blacks has not been adequately characterized .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies indicated that palonosetron is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 / 5 ( CYP2C19 was not investigated ) nor does it induce the activity of CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 / 5 .
Therefore , the potential for clinically significant drug interactions with palonsetron appears to be low .
Dexamethasone Coadministration of 0 . 25 mg palonosetron HCl and 20 mg dexamethasone administered intravenously in healthy subjects revealed no pharmacokinetic drug - interactions between palonosetron and dexamethasone .
Oral Aprepitant In an interaction study in healthy subjects where a single 0 . 25 mg intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl was administered on day 1 and oral aprepitant for 3 days ( 125 mg / 80 mg / 80 mg ) , the pharmacokinetics of palonosetron were not significantly altered ( AUC : no change , Cmax : 15 % increase ) .
Metoclopramide A study in healthy subjects involving a single 0 . 75 mg intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl and steady state oral metoclopramide ( 10 mg four times daily ) demonstrated no significant pharmacokinetic interaction .
Corticosteroids , Analgesics , Antiemetics / Antinauseants , Antispasmodics and Anticholinergic Agents In controlled clinical trials , palonosetron HCl has been safely administered with corticosteroids , analgesics , antiemetics / antinauseants , antispasmodics and anticholinergic agents .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , animals were treated with oral doses of palonosetron HCl at 10 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day .
Treatment with palonosetron was not tumorigenic .
The highest tested dose produced a systemic exposure to palonosetron ( plasma AUC ) of about 150 to 289 times the human exposure ( AUC = 29 . 8 h • mcg / L ) at the recommended intravenous dose of 0 . 25 mg .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , male and female rats were treated with oral doses of 15 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day and 15 , 45 and 90 mg / kg / day , respectively .
The highest doses produced a systemic exposure to palonosetron ( plasma AUC ) of 137 and 308 times the human exposure at the recommended dose .
Treatment with palonosetron HCl produced increased incidences of adrenal benign pheochromocytoma and combined benign and malignant pheochromocytoma , increased incidences of pancreatic Islet cell adenoma and combined adenoma and carcinoma and pituitary adenoma in male rats .
In female rats , it produced hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma and increased the incidences of thyroid C - cell adenoma and combined adenoma and carcinoma .
Palonosetron was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the Chinese hamster ovarian cell ( CHO / HGPRT ) forward mutation test , the ex vivo hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) test or the mouse micronucleus test .
It was , however , positive for clastogenic effects in the Chinese hamster ovarian ( CHO ) cell chromosomal aberration test .
Palonosetron HCl at oral doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( about 1894 times the recommended human intravenous dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of Palonosetron HCl Injection have been established based on adequate and well - controlled adult studies of another intravenous formulation of palonosetron HCl in chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting .
Below is a display of the results of these adequate and well - controlled studies of palonosetron HCl .
14 . 1 Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Efficacy of a single intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl in preventing acute and delayed nausea and vomiting induced by both moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy was studied in 4 trials .
In these double - blind trials , complete response rates ( no emetic episodes and no rescue medication ) and other efficacy parameters were assessed through at least 120 hours after administration of chemotherapy .
The safety and efficacy of palonosetron HCl in repeated courses of chemotherapy was also assessed .
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy : Two double - blind trials ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) involving 1132 patients compared a single intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl with either a single intravenous dose of ondansetron ( Study 1 ) or dolasetron ( Study 2 ) given 30 minutes prior to moderately emetogenic chemotherapy including carboplatin , cisplatin ≤ 50 mg / m ² , cyclophosphamide < 1500 mg / m ² , doxorubicin > 25 mg / m ² , epirubicin , irinotecan , and methotrexate > 250 mg / m ² .
Concomitant corticosteroids were not administered prophylactically in Study 1 and were only used by 4 to 6 % of patients in Study 2 .
The majority of patients in these studies were women ( 77 % ) , White ( 65 % ) and naïve to previous chemotherapy ( 54 % ) .
The mean age was 55 years .
Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy : A double - blind , dose - ranging trial evaluated the efficacy of single - dose intravenous palonosetron from 0 . 3 to 90 mcg / kg ( equivalent to < 0 . 1 mg to 6 mg fixed dose ) in 161 chemotherapy - naïve adult cancer patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy ( either cisplatin ≥ 70 mg / m ² or cyclophosphamide > 1100 mg / m ² ) .
Concomitant corticosteroids were not administered prophylactically .
Analysis of data from this trial indicates that 0 . 25 mg is the lowest effective dose in preventing acute nausea and vomiting induced by highly emetogenic chemotherapy .
A double - blind trial involving 667 patients compared a single intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl with a single intravenous dose of ondansetron ( Study 3 ) given 30 minutes prior to highly emetogenic chemotherapy including cisplatin ≥ 60 mg / m ² , cyclophosphamide > 1500 mg / m ² , and dacarbazine .
Corticosteroids were co - administered prophylactically before chemotherapy in 67 % of patients .
Of the 667 patients , 51 % were women , 60 % White , and 59 % naïve to previous chemotherapy .
The mean age was 52 years .
Efficacy Results : The antiemetic activity of palonosetron HCl was evaluated during the acute phase ( 0 - 24 hours ) [ Table 3 ] , delayed phase ( 24 - 120 hours ) [ Table 4 ] , and overall phase ( 0 - 120 hours ) [ Table 5 ] post - chemotherapy in Studies 1 , 2 and 3 .
Table 3 : Prevention of Acute Nausea and Vomiting ( 0 - 24 hours ) : Complete Response Rates [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Intent - to - treat cohort b 2 - sided Fisher ’ s exact test .
Significance level α = 0 . 025 .
c These studies were designed to show non - inferiority .
A lower bound greater than – 15 % demonstrates non - inferiority between palonosetron HCl and comparator .
d Ondansetron 32 mg intravenous was used in the clinical trial .
Although this dose was used in the trial , this is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
These trials show that palonosetron HCl was effective in the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately and highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
In Study 3 , efficacy was greater when prophylactic corticosteroids were administered concomitantly .
Clinical superiority over other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists has not been adequately demonstrated in the acute phase .
Table 4 : Prevention of Delayed Nausea and Vomiting ( 24 - 120 hours ) : Complete Response Rates [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Intent - to - treat cohort b 2 - sided Fisher ’ s exact test .
Significance level α = 0 . 025 .
c These studies were designed to show non - inferiority .
A lower bound greater than – 15 % demonstrates non - inferiority between palonosetron HCl and comparator .
d Ondansetron 32 mg intravenous was used in the clinical trial .
Although this dose was used in the trial , this is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
These trials show that palonosetron HCl was effective in the prevention of delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy .
Table 5 : Prevention of Overall Nausea and Vomiting ( 0 - 120 hours ) : Complete Response Rates [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Intent - to - treat cohort b 2 - sided Fisher ’ s exact test .
Significance level α = 0 . 025 .
c These studies were designed to show non - inferiority .
A lower bound greater than – 15 % demonstrates non - inferiority between palonosetron HCl and comparator .
d Ondansetron 32 mg intravenous was used in the clinical trial .
Although this dose was used in the trial , this is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
These trials show that palonosetron HCl was effective in the prevention of nausea and vomiting throughout the 120 hours ( 5 days ) following initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is clear and colorless and is supplied in single - dose vials as follows : NDC Number StrengthPackage 0143 - 9513 - 01 0 . 25 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 125 mg / mL ) 1 vial / carton Storage • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; [ Excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ] .
• Protect from freezing .
• Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported in patients with or without known hypersensitivity to other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction occur with administration of Palonosetron HCl Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of Palonsetron HCl Injection and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Exela Pharma Sciences LLC Lenoir , NC 28645 USA Distributed by : WEST - WARD A HIKMA COMPANY Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA 9513 - 0617 - 00 Issued June 2017 Patient Information Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ( PAL - oh - NOE - se - tron HYE - droe - KLOR - ide ) for intravenous use Read this Patient Information before you receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and each time you receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is a prescription medicine called an “ antiemetic . ”
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is used in adults to help prevent the nausea and vomiting that happens right away or later with certain anti - cancer medicines ( chemotherapy ) .
This product has not been approved for use in children to help prevent nausea and vomiting after chemotherapy .
Who should not receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Do not receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection if you are allergic to palonosetron hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
What should I tell my doctor before receiving Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Before receiving Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had an allergic reaction to another medicine for nausea or vomiting • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection passes into your breast milk or if it will affect your baby or your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you will receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and certain other medicines can affect each other , causing serious side effects .
How will I receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
• Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection will be given to you in your vein by I . V . ( intravenous ) injection .
• Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is usually given about 30 minutes before you receive your anti - cancer medicine ( chemotherapy ) .
What are the possible side effects of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection may cause serious side effects , including : • Serious allergic reactions .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection can cause allergic reactions that can sometimes be serious .
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you have any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction with Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection : o hives o swollen face o breathing trouble o chest pain • Serotonin Syndrome .
A possible life - threatening problem called serotonin syndrome can happen with medicines called 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , including Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection , especially when used with medicines used to treat depression and migraine headaches called serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) and certain other medicines .
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you have any of the following symptoms of serotonin syndrome : o agitation , seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , confusion , or coma o fast heartbeat or unusual and frequent changes in your blood pressure o dizziness , sweating , flushing , or fever o tremors , stiff muscles , muscle twitching , overactive reflexes , or loss of coordination o seizures o nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea The most common side effects of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection in adults are headache and constipation .
These are not all the possible side effects of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Active ingredient : palonosetron hydrochloride Inactive ingredient : water for intravenous administration Rx Only Manufactured by : Exela Pharma Sciences LLC , Lenoir , NC 28645 USA Distributed by : WEST - WARD , A HIKMA COMPANY , Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
9513 - 0617 - 00 Issued June 2017 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9513 - 01 Rx only Palonosetron HCl Injection 0 . 25 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 125 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only 2 mL Single Dose Sterile Vial Check concentration prior to preparation .
See package insert for complete instructions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9513 - 01 Rx only Palonosetron HCl Injection 0 . 25 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 125 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only 2 mL Single Dose Sterile Vial Check concentration prior to preparation .
See package insert for complete instructions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
