DESCRIPTION Metoclopramide hydrochloride is a white or practically white , crystalline , odorless or practically odorless powder .
It is very soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , sparingly soluble in chloroform , practically insoluble in ether .
Chemically , it is 4 - amino - 5 - chloro - N - [ 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] - 2 - methoxybenzamide monohydrochloride monohydrate .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C14H22CIN3O2 • HCl • H2O Molecular Weight : 354 . 3 Each tablet for oral administration contains metoclopramide hydrochloride , equivalent to either 5 mg or 10 mg metoclopramide .
Tablets also contain as inactive ingredients anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate and ( 5 mg only ) D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Blue # 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Metoclopramide stimulates motility of the upper gastrointestinal tract without stimulating gastric , biliary , or pancreatic secretions .
Its mode of action is unclear .
It seems to sensitize tissues to the action of acetylcholine .
The effect of metoclopramide on motility is not dependent on intact vagal innervation , but it can be abolished by anticholinergic drugs .
Metoclopramide increases the tone and amplitude of gastric ( especially antral ) contractions , relaxes the pyloric sphincter and the duodenal bulb , and increases peristalsis of the duodenum and jejunum resulting in accelerated gastric emptying and intestinal transit .
It increases the resting tone of the lower esophageal sphincter .
It has little , if any , effect on the motility of the colon or gallbladder .
In patients with gastroesophageal reflux and low LESP ( lower esophageal sphincter pressure ) , single oral doses of metoclopramide produce dose - related increases in LESP .
Effects begin at about 5 mg and increase through 20 mg ( the largest dose tested ) .
The increase in LESP from a 5 mg dose lasts about 45 minutes and that of 20 mg lasts between 2 and 3 hours .
Increased rate of stomach emptying has been observed with single oral doses of 10 mg .
The antiemetic properties of metoclopramide appear to be a result of its antagonism of central and peripheral dopamine receptors .
Dopamine produces nausea and vomiting by stimulation of the medullary chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) , and metoclopramide blocks stimulation of the CTZ by agents like l - dopa or apomorphine which are known to increase dopamine levels or to possess dopamine - like effects .
Metoclopramide also abolishes the slowing of gastric emptying caused by apomorphine .
Like the phenothiazines and related drugs , which are also dopamine antagonists , metoclopramide produces sedation and may produce extrapyramidal reactions , although these are comparatively rare ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metoclopramide inhibits the central and peripheral effects of apomorphine , induces release of prolactin and causes a transient increase in circulating aldosterone levels , which may be associated with transient fluid retention .
The onset of pharmacological action of metoclopramide is 1 to 3 minutes following an intravenous dose , 10 to 15 minutes following intramuscular administration , and 30 to 60 minutes following an oral dose ; pharmacological effects persist for 1 to 2 hours .
Pharmacokinetics : Metoclopramide is rapidly and well absorbed .
Relative to an intravenous dose of 20 mg , the absolute oral bioavailability of metoclopramide is 80 % ± 15 . 5 % as demonstrated in a crossover study of 18 subjects .
Peak plasma concentrations occur at about 1 to 2 hours after a single oral dose .
Similar time to peak is observed after individual doses at steady state .
In a single dose study of 12 subjects , the area under the drug concentration - time curve increased linearly with doses from 20 to 100 mg .
Peak concentrations increase linearly with dose ; time to peak concentrations remains the same ; whole body clearance is unchanged ; and the elimination rate remains the same .
The average elimination halflife in individuals with normal renal function is 5 to 6 hours .
Linear kinetic processes adequately describe the absorption and elimination of metoclopramide .
Approximately 85 % of the radioactivity of an orally administered dose appears in the urine within 72 hours .
Of the 85 % eliminated in the urine , about half is present as free or conjugated metoclopramide .
The drug is not extensively bound to plasma proteins ( about 30 % ) .
The whole body volume of distribution is high ( about 3 . 5 L / kg ) which suggests extensive distribution of drug to the tissues .
Renal impairment affects the clearance of metoclopramide .
In a study with patients with varying degrees of renal impairment , a reduction in creatinine clearance was correlated with a reduction in plasma clearance , renal clearance , non - renal clearance , and increase in elimination half - life .
The kinetics of metoclopramide in the presence of renal impairment remained linear however .
The reduction in clearance as a result of renal impairment suggests that adjustment downward of maintenance dosage should be done to avoid drug accumulation .
Adult Pharmacokinetic DataParameter Value Vd ( L / kg ) ~ 3 . 5 Plasma Protein Binding ~ 30 % t1 / 2 ( hr ) 5 - 6 Oral Bioavailability 80 % ± 15 . 5 % In pediatric patients , the pharmacodynamics of metoclopramide following oral and intravenous administration are highly variable and a concentration - effect relationship has not been established .
There are insufficient reliable data to conclude whether the pharmacokinetics of metoclopramide in adults and the pediatric population are similar .
Although there are insufficient data to support the efficacy of metoclopramide in pediatric patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux ( GER ) its pharmacokinetics have been studied in these patient populations .
In an open - label study , six pediatric patients ( age range , 3 . 5 weeks to 5 . 4 months ) with GER received metoclopramide 0 . 15 mg / kg oral solution every 6 hours for 10 doses .
The mean peak plasma concentration of metoclopramide after the tenth dose was 2 - fold ( 56 . 8 mcg / L ) higher compared to that observed after the first dose ( 29 mcg / L ) indicating drug accumulation with repeated dosing .
After the tenth dose , the mean time to reach peak concentrations ( 2 . 2 hr ) , half - life ( 4 . 1 hr ) , clearance ( 0 . 67 L / h / kg ) , and volume of distribution ( 4 . 4 L / kg ) of metoclopramide were similar to those observed after the first dose .
In the youngest patient ( age , 3 . 5 weeks ) , metoclopramide half - life after the first and the tenth dose ( 23 . 1 and 10 . 3 hr , respectively ) was significantly longer compared to other infants due to reduced clearance .
This may be attributed to immature hepatic and renal systems at birth .
Pediatric Pharmacokinetic StudyReference Dose , Route t1 / 2 ( hr ) Cl ( L / hr / kg ) Vd ( L / kg ) Cmax ( mcg / L ) 1 .
0 . 15 mg / kg oral soln , multiple dose 4 . 1 a , b 0 . 67 ± 0 . 14 4 . 4 ± 0 . 65 ( Vd area ) 1 st dose = 29 ± 2 . 3 10 th dose = 56 . 8 ± 10 . 5 a . Data presented as means ± SEM .
b . SEM not available .
1 .
Kearns , GL , et al .
J Pediatric Gastroenterol Nutr 7 ( 6 ) : 823 - 829 , 1988 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux : Metoclopramide tablets are indicated as short - term ( 4 to 12 weeks ) therapy for adults with symptomatic , documented gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy .
The principal effect of metoclopramide is on symptoms of postprandial and daytime heartburn with less observed effect on nocturnal symptoms .
If symptoms are confined to particular situations , such as following the evening meal , use of metoclopramide as single doses prior to the provocative situation should be considered , rather than using the drug throughout the day .
Healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions has been endoscopically demonstrated at the end of a 12 - week trial using doses of 15 mg q . i . d .
As there is no documented correlation between symptoms and healing of esophageal lesions , patients with documented lesions should be monitored endoscopically .
Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) : Metoclopramide is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastric stasis .
The usual manifestations of delayed gastric emptying ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , heartburn , persistent fullness after meals , and anorexia ) appear to respond to metoclopramide within different time intervals .
Significant relief of nausea occurs early and continues to improve over a three week period .
Relief of vomiting and anorexia may precede the relief of abdominal fullness by one week or more .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide should not be used whenever stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous , e . g . , in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage , mechanical obstruction , or perforation .
Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because the drug may cause a hypertensive crisis , probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor .
Such hypertensive crises may be controlled by phentolamine .
Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity or intolerance to the drug .
Metoclopramide should not be used in epileptics or patients receiving other drugs which are likely to cause extrapyramidal reactions , since the frequency and severity of seizures or extrapyramidal reactions may be increased .
WARNINGS Mental depression has occurred in patients with and without prior history of depression .
Symptoms have ranged from mild to severe and have included suicidal ideation and suicide .
Metoclopramide should be given to patients with a prior history of depression only if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks .
Extrapyramidal symptoms , manifested primarily as acute dystonic reactions , occur in approximately 1 in 500 patients treated with the usual adult dosages of 30 to 40 mg / day of metoclopramide .
These usually are seen during the first 24 to 48 hours of treatment with metoclopramide , occur more frequently in pediatric patients and adult patients less than 30 years of age and are even more frequent at the higher doses .
These symptoms may include involuntary movements of limbs and facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , or dystonic reactions resembling tetanus .
Rarely , dystonic reactions may present as stridor and dyspnea , possibly due to laryngo - spasm .
If these symptoms should occur , inject 50 mg of Benadryl ® ( diphenhydramine hydrochloride ) intramuscularly , and they usually will subside .
Cogentin ® ( benztropine mesylate ) , 1 to 2 mg intramuscularly , may also be used to reverse these reactions .
Parkinsonian - like symptoms have occurred , more commonly within the first 6 months after beginning treatment with metoclopramide , but occasionally after longer periods .
These symptoms generally subside within 2 to 3 months following discontinuance of metoclopramide .
Patients with preexisting Parkinson ’ s disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously , if at all , since such patients may experience exacerbation of parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide .
Tardive Dyskinesia : Tardive dyskinesia , a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible , involuntary , dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with metoclopramide .
Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly , especially elderly women , it is impossible to predict which patients are likely to develop the syndrome .
Both the risk of developing the syndrome and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose .
Less commonly , the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses ; in these cases , symptoms appear more likely to be reversible .
There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia although the syndrome may remit , partially or completely , within several weeks - to - months after metoclopramide is withdrawn .
Metoclopramide itself , however , may suppress ( or partially suppress ) the signs of tardive dyskinesia , thereby masking the underlying disease process .
The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long - term course of the syndrome is unknown .
Therefore , the use of metoclopramide for the symptomatic control of tardive dyskinesia is not recommended .
PRECAUTIONS General : In one study in hypertensive patients , intravenously administered metoclopramide was shown to release catecholamines ; hence , caution should be exercised when metoclopramide is used in patients with hypertension .
Because metoclopramide produces a transient increase in plasma aldosterone , certain patients , especially those with cirrhosis or congestive heart failure , may be at risk of developing fluid retention and volume overload .
If these side effects occur at any time during metoclopramide therapy , the drug should be discontinued .
Giving a promotility drug such as metoclopramide theoretically could put increased pressure on suture lines following a gut anastomosis or closure .
This possibility should be considered and weighed when deciding whether to use metoclopramide or nasogastric suction in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting .
Information for Patients : Metoclopramide may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
The ambulatory patient should be cautioned accordingly .
Drug Interactions : The effects of metoclopramide on gastrointestinal motility are antagonized by anticholinergic drugs and narcotic analgesics .
Additive sedative effects can occur when metoclopramide is given with alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , narcotics or tranquilizers .
The finding that metoclopramide releases catecholamines in patients with essential hypertension suggests that it should be used cautiously , if at all , in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Absorption of drugs from the stomach may be diminished ( e . g . , digoxin ) by metoclopramide , whereas the rate and / or extent of absorption of drugs from the small bowel may be increased ( e . g . , acetaminophen , tetracycline , levodopa , ethanol , cyclosporine ) .
Gastroparesis ( gastric stasis ) may be responsible for poor diabetic control in some patients .
Exogenously administered insulin may begin to act before food has left the stomach and lead to hypoglycemia .
Because the action of metoclopramide will influence the delivery of food to the intestines and thus the rate of absorption , insulin dosage or timing of dosage may require adjustment .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : A 77 - week study was conducted in rats with oral doses up to about 40 times the maximum recommended human daily dose .
Metoclopramide elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration .
Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one - third of human breast cancers are prolactin - dependent in vitro , a factor of potential importance if the prescription of metoclopramide is contemplated in a patient with previously detected breast cancer .
Although disturbances , such as galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , and impotence have been reported with prolactin - elevating drugs , the clinical significance of elevated serum prolactin levels is unknown for most patients .
An increase in mammary neoplasms has been found in rodents after chronic administration of prolactin - stimulating neuroleptic drugs and metoclopramide .
Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date , however , have shown an association between chronic administration of these drugs and mammary tumorigenesis ; the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive at this time .
An Ames mutagenicity test performed on metoclopramide was negative .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies performed in rats , mice , and rabbits by the I . V . , I . M . , S . C . , and oral routes at maximum levels ranging from 12 to 250 times the human dose have demonstrated no impairment of fertility or significant harm to the fetus due to metoclopramide .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Metoclopramide is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when metoclopramide is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established except as stated to facilitate small bowel intubation ( see OVERDOSAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Care should be exercised in administering metoclopramide to neonates since prolonged clearance may produce excessive serum concentrations ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY — Pharmacokinetics ) .
In addition , neonates have reduced levels of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide - methemoglobin reductase which , in combination with the aforementioned pharmacokinetic factors , make neonates more susceptible to methemoglobinemia ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
The safety profile of metoclopramide in adults cannot be extrapolated to pediatric patients .
Dystonias and other extrapyramidal reactions associated with metoclopramide are more common in the pediatric population than in adults .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS — Extrapyramidal Reactions . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS In general , the incidence of adverse reactions correlates with the dose and duration of metoclopramide administration .
The following reactions have been reported , although in most instances , data do not permit an estimate of frequency .
CNS Effects : Restlessness , drowsiness , fatigue , and lassitude occur in approximately 10 % of patients receiving the most commonly prescribed dosage of 10 mg q . i . d . ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Insomnia , headache , confusion , dizziness , or mental depression with suicidal ideation ( see WARNINGS ) occur less frequently .
There are isolated reports of convulsive seizures without clearcut relationships to metoclopramide .
Rarely , hallucinations have been reported .
Extrapyramidal Reactions ( EPS ) : Acute dystonic reactions , the most common type of EPS associated with metoclopramide , occur in approximately 0 . 2 % of patients ( 1 in 500 ) treated with 30 to 40 mg of metoclopramide per day .
Symptoms include involuntary movements of limbs , facial grimacing , torticollis , oculogyric crisis , rhythmic protrusion of tongue , bulbar type of speech , trismus , opisthotonus ( tetanus - like reactions ) , and rarely , stridor and dyspnea possibly due to laryngospasm ; ordinarily these symptoms are readily reversed by diphenhydramine ( see WARNINGS ) .
Parkinsonian - like symptoms may include bradykinesia , tremor , cogwheel rigidity , masklike facies ( see WARNINGS ) .
Tardive dyskinesia most frequently is characterized by involuntary movements of the tongue , face , mouth , or jaw , and sometimes by involuntary movements of the trunk and / or extremities ; movements may be choreoathetotic in appearance ( see WARNINGS ) .
Motor restlessness ( akathisia ) may consist of feelings of anxiety , agitation , jitteriness , and insomnia , as well as inability to sit still , pacing , foot - tapping .
These symptoms may disappear spontaneously or respond to a reduction in dosage .
Endocrine Disturbances : Galactorrhea , amenorrhea , gynecomastia , impotence secondary to hyperprolactinemia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Fluid retention secondary to transient elevation of aldosterone ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension , hypertension , supraventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , fluid retention , acute congestive heart failure and possible AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and bowel disturbances , primarily diarrhea .
Hepatic : Rarely , cases of hepatotoxicity , characterized by such findings as jaundice and altered liver function tests , when metoclopramide was administered with other drugs with known hepatotoxic potential .
Renal : Urinary frequency and incontinence .
Hematologic : A few cases of neutropenia , leukopenia , or agranulocytosis , generally without clearcut relationships to metoclopramide .
Methemoglobinemia , especially with overdosage in neonates ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Sulfhemoglobinemia in adults .
Allergic Reactions : A few cases of rash , urticaria , or bronchospasm , especially in patients with a history of asthma .
Rarely , angioneurotic edema , including glossal or laryngeal edema .
Miscellaneous : Visual disturbances .
Porphyria .
Rare occurrences of neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) have been reported .
This potentially fatal syndrome is comprised of the symptom complex of hyperthermia , altered consciousness , muscular rigidity , and autonomic dysfunction .
Transient flushing of the face and upper body , without alterations in vital signs , following high doses intravenously .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of overdosage may include drowsiness , disorientation and extrapyramidal reactions .
Anticholinergic or antiparkinson drugs or antihistamines with anticholinergic properties may be helpful in controlling the extrapyramidal reactions .
Symptoms are self - limiting and usually disappear within 24 hours .
Hemodialysis removes relatively little metoclopramide , probably because of the small amount of the drug in blood relative to tissues .
Similarly , continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis does not remove significant amounts of drug .
It is unlikely that dosage would need to be adjusted to compensate for losses through dialysis .
Dialysis is not likely to be an effective method of drug removal in overdose situations .
Unintentional overdose due to misadministration has been reported in infants and children with the use of metoclopramide oral solution .
While there was no consistent pattern to the reports associated with these overdoses , events included seizures , extrapyramidal reactions , and lethargy .
Methemoglobinemia has occurred in premature and full - term neonates who were given overdoses of metoclopramide ( 1 to 4 mg / kg / day orally , intramuscularly or intravenously for 1 to 3 or more days ) .
Methemoglobinemia has not been reported in neonates treated with 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in divided doses .
Methemoglobinemia can be reversed by the intravenous administration of methylene blue .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux : Administer from 10 mg to 15 mg metoclopramide orally up to q . i . d . 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime , depending upon symptoms being treated and clinical response ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
If symptoms occur only intermittently or at specific times of the day , use of metoclopramide in single doses up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation may be preferred rather than continuous treatment .
Occasionally , patients ( such as elderly patients ) who are more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide will require only 5 mg per dose .
Experience with esophageal erosions and ulcerations is limited , but healing has thus far been documented in one controlled trial using q . i . d . therapy at 15 mg per dose , and this regimen should be used when lesions are present , so long as it is tolerated ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Because of the poor correlation between symptoms and endoscopic appearance of the esophagus , therapy directed at esophageal lesions is best guided by endoscopic evaluation .
Therapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended .
For the Relief of Symptoms Associated with Diabetic Gastroparesis ( Diabetic Gastric Stasis ) : Administer 10 mg of metoclopramide 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime for two to eight weeks , depending upon response and the likelihood of continued well - being upon drug discontinuation .
The initial route of administration should be determined by the severity of the presenting symptoms .
If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present , oral administration of metoclopramide may be initiated .
However , if severe symptoms are present , therapy should begin with Metoclopramide Injection ( I . M . or I . V . ) ( consult labeling of the injection prior to initiating parenteral administration ) .
Administration of the Metoclopramide Injection up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside , at which time oral administration may be instituted .
Since diabetic gastric stasis is frequently recurrent , metoclopramide therapy should be reinstituted at the earliest manifestation .
Use in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Since metoclopramide is excreted principally through the kidneys , in those patients whose creatinine clearance is below 40 mL / min , therapy should be initiated at approximately one - half the recommended dosage .
Depending upon clinical efficacy and safety considerations , the dosage may be increased or decreased as appropriate .
See OVERDOSAGE section for information regarding dialysis .
Metoclopramide undergoes minimal hepatic metabolism , except for simple conjugation .
Its safe use has been described in patients with advanced liver disease whose renal function was normal .
HOW SUPPLIED Metoclopramide Tablets , USP : 5 mg - Light green , round , unscored tablets .
Debossed : PLIVA 517 10 mg - White , round , scored tablets .
Debossed : PLIVA 430 They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0723 - 1 5 mg 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack light green 0591 - 2228 53808 - 0722 - 1 10 mg 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack WHITE 0591 - 2229 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : BARR LABORATORIES , INC .
Pomona , NY 10970 USA Distributed by : Watson Pharma , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label - 5 mg Tablets NDC 53808 - 0723 - 1 Metoclopramide Tablets , USP 5 mg 30 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label - 10 mg Tablets NDC 53808 - 0722 - 1 Metoclopramide Tablets , USP 10 mg 30 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
