Drug Facts Active Ingredients Menthol 4 % Methyl Salicylate 1 % Purpose External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains • simple backache Warnings For external use only Do not use • on wounds • irritated or damaged skin • sensitive skin • with a heating pad • if pregnant • with , or as the same time as , other external analgesic products • if allergic to aspirin or salicylates • if allergic to any ingredients of this product When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not bandage tightly • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not use more than 3 plasters a day • do not use 1 hour before or after bathing Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive irritation of the skin develops • rashes , itching or redness are present • side effects occur .
If pregnant , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use otherwise than as directed .
Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : clean and dry affected area .
Remove plaster from the protective layer , apply to the affected area , rub the area with your hand to secure the patch .
• Patch will remain effective for 8 hours .
• Avoid using the same patch on the same area for more than 2 days .
• Do not apply to area with excessive hair .
Adhesive plaster may hurt skin upon removal .
• Wet patch with warm water before removing from skin • Children under 12 years of age : Do not use or consult a doctor .
Other Information • store unused patch in the pouch • store at room temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Chinese Clematidis Root & Rhizome , Yellow wax , Momordica cochinchinensis seeds , Castor Seeds , Myrrh , Frankincense , Sesame Oil , Resin , FD & C Blue No . 2 , FD & C Yellow No . 4 , Zinc Oxide Questions or Comments Call : 1 - 888 - 811 - 1133 For the temporary relief of muscles and joints associated with arthritis .
Distributed by : America Health Herbs , Inc .
15361 Brookhurst # 104 Westminster , CA 93683 Tel 1 - 888 - 811 - 1133 Fax 1 - 714 - 531 - 2010 Made in Taiwan • Backache • Arthritis • Strains • Bruises • Sprains • Elastic Breathable Pad FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Contains 10 Plasters 7 . 5 × 10 cm ( 2 . 9 inch × 3 . 9 inch ) Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
