Rx only DO NOT USE IN THE EYES .
DESCRIPTION Lidocaine HCL USP , 3 % contains a local anesthetic agent and is administered topically .
See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for specific uses .
Lidocaine HCL USP , 3 % contains lidocaine , which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Composition of Lidocaine HCL USP , 3 % : Each gram contains lidocaine hydrocloride USP , 3 % in a water soluble base containing AQUA ( DEIONIZED WATER ) , CARBOMER , ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL , PETROLATUM , POLYSORBATE - 20 , TRIETHANOLAMINE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY MECHANISM OF ACTION LidoRx 3 % releases Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritations and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
Onset of anesthesia LidoRx 3 % effects local , topical anesthesia .
The onset of action is 3 - 5 minutes .
Hemodynamics Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes or open wounds , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
Approximately 90 % of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 μg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - l - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 μg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 μg / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anesthetic for relief of pruritus , pruritic eczemas , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of LidoRx 3 % .
Do not use LidoRx 3 % on traumatized mucosa or in the presence of secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application .
WARNINGS EXCESSIVE DOSAGE , OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES , CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS .
PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT .
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN , AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS .
LidoRx 3 % should be used with extreme caution in the presence of sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
LidoRx 3 % Gel should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
In case of accidental ingestion get medical help or contact poison control center right away .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Caution must be taken to avoid over dosage when applying LidoRx 3 % to large areas of injured or abraded skin , since the systemic absorption of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be increased under such conditions .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse experiences following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central Nervous System : CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Each pump of the LidoRx 3 % bottle in 30 mL Airless Pumps ( NDC : 35781 - 0300 - 3 ) will deliver 0 . 25 mL of LidoRx 3 % enough to cover a 2 x 2 inch area of skin .
A single application should not exceed 10 g of LidoRx 3 % , containing 300 mg of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ; This would equal 40 pumps of the 30 mL Airless bottle .
In a 70 kg adult this dose equals 4 . 3 mg / kg ( 1 . 9 mg / lb ) Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
No more than one 30 mL Airless Pump bottle , approximately 30 g of LidoRx 3 % or 900 mg Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP , should be administered in any one day .
Although the incidence of adverse effects with LidoRx 3 % is quite low , caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large amounts , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
Dosage for children : It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and a normal lean body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( e . g . , Clark ’ s rule ) .
For example a child of five years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 - 100 mg when calculated according to Clark ’ s rule .
In any case , the maximum amount of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP administered should not exceed 4 . 3 mg / kg ( 2 . 0 mg / lb ) of body weight .
Administration Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily not to exceed 12 pumps in twenty four hours ( 24 Hrs ) .
One pump covers an area of 2 x2 inches .
Larger areas will require additional applications .
Or use as directed by a physician .
STORAGE AND HANDLING All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on the therapeutic equivalence .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86º F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
HOW SUPPLIED Lido Rx 3 % ( Lidocaine HCl USP 3 % ) 1 . 01 oz ( 28 . 5 g ) 30 mL Airless Pump - NDC 35356 - 936 - 30 35356 - 936 - 90 Relabeled by : Quality Care Products , LLC Holland , OH 43528 Gensco Labratories , LLC 12741 Miramar Parkway Miramar , FL 33027 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
