DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients : Zinc Oxide 20 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • Provides protection from UVA & UVB rays that may contribute to premature aging of the skin • Retains SPF up to 40 minutes of water immersion or perspiring Warnings • For external use only • Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of eye contact , flush eyes with water thoroughly • Do not use if sensitive to ingredients • Discontinue use if irritation occurs .
Consult a doctor or healthcare professional if irritation persists • For use on children less than 6 months of age , consult a doctor • Keep this and all medicines out of the reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Directions • Apply generously and uniformly to all exposed skin areas before exposure to sunlight • Continue to rub in until fading occurs , especially in hair bearing areas • Reapply as needed and after washing , swimming , towel drying , or sweating for maximum protection Other Information • Sun Alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
• May stain some fabrics Inactive Ingredients : C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Caprylhydroxyamic Acid , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetyl PEG / PPG 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Cyclohexasiloxane , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Dimethiconol , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Lauryl PEG / PPG 18 / 18 Methicone , Methicone , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Polysorbate 20 , Sodium Chloride , Stearyl Dimethicone , Tetrahexadecyl Ascorbate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Triethanolamine , Triethoxycaprylysilane , Water TiZO Body SPF 35 is a sunscreen uniquely formulated to offer sheer , elegant protection with a silky , smooth , matte finish .
TiZO Body offers unparalleled aesthetic elegance while providing superb photoprotective performance .
Using our proprietary technology , Fallien has formulated multiple particle sizes of micronized zinc oxide into a light , silky texture that dries to a clear , yet matte finish on any complexion .
TiZO Body is paraben , oil and fragrance free , and specially formulated without UV absorbing chemicals to offer unsurpassed , irritant free UVA / UVB light protection .
SPF is not Enough UVA radiation is consistently the same all day and all year long .
Everyone requires daily , year round UVA protection .
UVA radiation is responsible for deep skin damage that results in most of the changes associated with skin aging , such as wrinkling .
In addition , the effects of UVA damage are cumulative .
Since the SPF number does not define the level of UVA protection , products that utilize both titanium dioxide and / or zinc oxide , are the best method of assuring full spectrum sun protection from UVA and UVB radiation .
• Excellent for Sensitive Skin • Free of " Chemical Sunscreen Filters " • Contains no Parabens • Dries Translucent • Full Spectrum Protection • Fragrance Free Manufactured exclusively for Fallien , Ltd .
West Norriton PA 19403 Made in USA Principal Display Panel – Carton Label NDC 58892 - 218 - 01 SOLAR PROTECTION Formula ® TIZO ® BODY 20 % Zinc Oxide Mineral Protection Water Resistant spf 35 uva / uvb Net Wt 3 . 5 oz .
/ 100 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
