Drug Facts Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Menthol 1 % Purpose Topical anesthetic Uses for the temporary relief of pain Warnings For external use only Do not use • on puncture wounds , cuts , irritated or swollen skin • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or with other topical analgesics at the same time • with a heating pad or apply local heat to the area of use When using this product • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton .
• do not allow contact with the eyes • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • redness or irritation develops • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions adults and children over 12 years : • clean and dry affected area • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • use 1 patch at a time and not more than 3 to 4 times daily children 12 years or younger : consult a doctor Other Information store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients aluminum glycinate , glycerin , methyl acrylate , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide urea , poval , alcohol , water Questions or Comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 877 - 255 - 6999 .
Manufactured for : Akron Pharma Inc . , Fairfield , NJ - 07004 www . akronpharma . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
