Sterile Aqueous Injection NOT FOR INTRATHECAL USE Not For Intravascular Use For Retrograde Cystourethrography Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION HYPAQUE - CYSTO , brand of diatrizoate meglumine , is a water - soluble radiopaque diagnostic medium .
It is a triiodinated benzoic acid derivative .
It is constituted as a radiopaque iodinated anion ( diatrizoate ) and a radiolucent cation ( meglumine ) .
It is a colorless , microcrystalline solid which is readily soluble in water .
HYPAQUE - CYSTO is a sterile aqueous solution containing 30 g ( w / v ) of the meglumine salt of diatrizoic acid per 100 mL aqueous solution .
The sterile solution is clear and colorless to pale yellow .
The pH is adjusted between 6 . 5 and 7 . 7 with hydrochloric acid , or diatrizoic acid , or meglumine .
It does not contain an antibacterial preservative .
It is relatively thermostable and may be autoclaved .
Edetate calcium disodium 1 : 10 , 000 has been added as a sequestering stabilizing agent .
Each 1 mL contains approximately 141 mg of organically bound iodine .
It has an osmolality of 633 mosm / kg ( determined by VPO ) and is hypertonic to blood .
The viscosity of the solution is 1 . 94 cp at 25 ° C and 1 . 42 cp at 37 ° C . HYPAQUE - CYSTO is a 30 percent solution of 1 - Deoxy - l ( methylamino ) - D - glucitol 3 , 5 - diacetamido - 2 , 4 , 6 - triiodobenzoate ( C11H9I3N2O4 • C7H17NO5 ) with a molecular weight of 809 . 13 , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Retrograde introduction of HYPAQUE - CYSTO solution provides radiopacity of the contents of the urinary bladder .
When used during micturation as a function test , it also opacifies the bladder neck and lower urinary tract .
Continuous fluoroscopic and monitoring of urinary bladder contractions will demonstrate cystoureteric reflux and its extent , if present .
HYPAQUE - CYSTO is not absorbed from the urinary tract to any extent ( < 2 ° ) , therefore , systemic effects are rare .
However , pyelorenal intravasation ( especially in patients with ureteric reflux ) can occur .
Therefore , the potential for adverse effects , such as occur with intravascular use , are possible .
At physiologic pH , the water - soluble contrast media are completely dissociated into a radiopaque anion and a solubilizing cation .
EXCRETION HYPAQUE - CYSTO which gains inadvertent intravascular entry is not metabolized but excreted unchanged in the urine , each diatrizoate molecule remaining " obligated " to its cation moiety .
Diatrizoate solutions may be excreted either through the kidneys or the liver .
These two excretory pathways are not mutually exclusive , but the main route of excretion seems to be governed by the affinity of the contrast medium for serum albumin .
From 0 % to 10 % of diatrizoate meglumine is bound to serum protein .
Diatrizoate salts are excreted unchanged predominantly through the kidneys by glomerular filtration .
The amount excreted during any period of time is determined by the filtered load ; ie , the product of plasma contrast media concentration and glomerular filtration rate .
The liver and small intestine provide the major alternate route of excretion for diatrizoate .
In patients free of severe renal disease , the fecal recovery is less than 2 percent .
In patients with severe renal impairment the excretion of these contrast media through the gallbladder and into the small intestine sharply increases ; up to 20 percent in the feces in 48 hours .
Saliva is a minor secretory pathway for injectable radiopaque diagnostic agents .
In patients with normal renal function , minimal amounts of contrast media are secreted unchanged .
PREGNANCY AND LACTATION Diatrizoate meglumine crosses the human placental barrier by simple diffusion and appears to enter fetal tissues passively .
No apparent harm to the fetus occurs .
Procedures including radiation involve a certain risk related to the exposure of the fetus .
Diatrizoate solutions are excreted unchanged in human milk .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HYPAQUE - CYSTO is indicated for retrograde cystourethrography in adult and pediatric patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS HYPAQUE - CYSTO has no absolute contraindication in its recommended use .
WARNINGS SEVERE ADVERSE EVENTS — INADVERTENT INTRATHECAL USE Serious adverse reactions have been reported due to the inadvertent intrathecal administration of iodinated contrast media that are not indicated for intrathecal use .
These serious adverse reactions include : death , convulsions , cerebral hemorrhage , coma , paralysis , arachnoiditis , acute renal failure , cardiac arrest , seizures , rhabdomyolysis , hyperthermia , and brain edema .
Special attention must be given to insure that this drug product is not administered intrathecally .
Ionic iodinated contrast media inhibit blood coagulation , in vitro , more than nonionic contrast media .
Nonetheless , it is prudent to avoid prolonged contact of blood with syringes containing ionic contrast media .
Serious , rarely fatal , thromboembolic events causing myocardial infarction and stroke have been reported during angiographic procedures with both ionic and nonionic contrast media .
Therefore , meticulous intravascular administration technique is necessary , particularly during angiographic procedures , to minimize thromboembolic events .
Numerous factors , including length of procedure , catheter and syringe material , underlying disease state and concomitant medications may contribute to the development of thromboembolic events .
For these reasons , meticulous angiographic techniques are recommended including close attention to guidewire and catheter manipulation , use of manifold systems and / or three - way stopcocks , frequent catheter flushing with heparinized saline solutions and minimizing the length of the procedure .
The use of plastic syringe in place of glass syringes has been reported to decrease but not eliminate the likelihood of in vitro clotting .
Serious or fatal reactions have been associated with the vascular entry of radiopaque media .
It is important that a course of action be carefully planned in advance for the treatment of possible serious reactions .
PRECAUTIONS General Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque diagnostic agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the prerequisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
Appropriate facilities should be available for the management of any complication of the procedure , as well as for emergency treatment of severe reactions to the contrast agent itself .
Competent personnel and emergency facilities should be available for at least 30 to 60 minutes since severe delayed reactions have occurred ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The possibility of a reaction , including serious , life - threatening , fatal , anaphylatic or cardiovascular reactions should always be considered ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
It is of utmost importance that a course of action be carefully planned in advance for immediate treatment of serious reactions , and that adequate and appropriate personnel be readily available in case of any reaction .
ALLERGIC HISTORY Before injecting a contrast medium , the patient should be questioned for a history of allergy .
A positive history does not arbitrarily contraindicate the use of a contrast agent where a diagnostic procedure is considered essential , but caution should be exercised ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The possibility of an idiosyncratic reaction in susceptible patients should always be considered ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The susceptible population includes patients with a history of a previous reaction to a contrast media , patients with a known sensitivity to iodine per se , and patients with known clinical hypersensitivity ( ie , bronchial asthma , hay fever , and food allergies ) .
Premedication with antihistamines or corticosteroids to avoid or minimize possible allergic reactions in such patients should be considered .
Recent reports indicate that such pretreatment does not prevent serious life - threatening reactions , but may reduce both their incidence and severity .
TEST DOSE The occurrence of severe idiosyncratic reactions has prompted the use of several pretesting methods .
However , pretesting cannot be relied upon to predict severe reactions and may itself be hazardous for the patient .
It is suggested that a thorough medical history with emphasis on allergy and hypersensitivity , prior to the injection of any contrast media , may be more accurate than pretesting in predicting adverse reactions .
Information for Patients Patients receiving injectable radiopaque diagnostic agents should be instructed to : • Inform the physician if they are pregnant ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
• Inform the physician if they are allergic to any drugs , food , or if they have had any reactions to previous injections of dyes used for x - ray procedures ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Under certain circumstances ( pH , temperature , concentrations , time ) , diatrizoate solutions are incompatible with promethazine hydrochloride , diphenhydramine hydrochloride , brompheniramine maleate , or papaverine hydrochloride solutions .
BENADRYL ® , brand of diphenhydramine hydrochloride , may cause precipitation when mixed in the same syringe with HYPAQUE - CYSTO .
Although interference with these laboratory tests have not been reported following cystography absorption ( from the bladder or by pyelorenal back flow ) , they have occurred following direct intravenous injection .
Therefore , if any of these studies , which might be affected by contrast media are indicated , it is recommended that they be performed prior to administration of the contrast medium or two or more days afterwards .
Diatrizoate salts interfere with several laboratory urine and blood tests .
Blood Tests Coagulation : Diatrizoate salts significantly inhibit all stages of coagulation .
The fibrinogen concentration , Factors V , VII , and VIII are decreased .
Prothrombin time and thromboplastin time are increased .
Platelet aggregation : High levels of plasma and diatrizoate meglumine inhibit platelet aggregation .
Serum calcium : Diatrizoate salts may decrease serum calcium levels .
However , this depletion of serum calcium may also be the result of the addition of chelating agents ( edetate disodium ) in the preparation of certain contrast media .
Red cell counts : Transitory decreases in red cell counts .
Technetium - 99 m - RBC labeling interference .
Leukocyte counts : Decrease .
Urea nitrogen ( BUN ) : Transitory increase ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Serum creatinine : Transitory increase .
Urine Tests Urine osmolarity and specific gravity .
Decreased due to induced diuresis .
Urine cultures .
Diatrizoate in urine cultures may inhibit bacterial growth .
Thyroid Function Tests Protein - bound iodine ( PBI ) and total serum organic iodine : Transient increase of both tests following cystography and retrograde pyelography have been noticed .
The results of PBl and radioactive iodine uptake studies which depend on iodine estimations will not accurately reflect thyroid function for up to 16 days following administration of iodinated media .
However , thyroid function tests not depending on iodine estimations , eg , T3 resin uptake or free thyroxine assays are not affected .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed in order to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenesis , or whether HYPAQUE - CYSTO can affect fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with diatrizoate meglumine .
It is also not known whether it can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Therefore , diatrizoate meglumine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery It is not known whether use of these contrast agents during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
Nursing Mothers Diatrizoate salts are excreted unchanged in human milk .
Because of the potential adverse reactions , although it has not been established that serious adverse reactions occur in nursing infants , caution should be exercised when these contrast media are administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Not For Intravascular Use Because inadvertent intravascular entry of HYPAQUE - CYSTO is possible during urethrocystography ( bladder absorption or pyelorenal back flow ) , the occurrence of systemic adverse effects is possible .
However , the relative incidence and severity of the following reactions refer only to experience with direct intravascular injection .
Approximately 95 percent of adverse reactions accompanying the intravascular use of diatrizoate salts are of mild to moderate severity .
However , life - threatening reactions and fatalities , mostly of cardiovascular origin , have occurred .
Adverse reactions to injectable contrast media fall into two categories : chemotoxic reactions and idiosyncratic reactions .
Chemotoxic reactions result from the physicochemical properties of the contrast media , the dose , and the speed of injection .
All hemodynamic disturbances and injuries to organs or vessels perfused by the contrast medium are included in this category .
Idiosyncratic reactions include all other reactions .
They occur more frequently in patients 20 to 40 years old .
Idiosyncratic reactions may or may not be dependent on the amount of dose injected , the speed of injection , the mode of injection , and the radiographic procedure .
Idiosyncratic reactions are subdivided into minor , intermediate , and severe .
The minor reactions are self - limited and of short duration ; the severe reactions are life - threatening and treatment is urgent and mandatory .
The reported incidence of adverse reactions to contrast media in patients with a history of allergy are twice that of the general population .
Patients with a history of previous reactions to a contrast medium are three times more susceptible than other patients .
However , sensitivity to contrast media does not appear to increase with repeated examinations .
Most adverse reactions to injectable contrast media appear within one to three minutes after the start of injection , but delayed reactions may occur .
Adverse reactions are grouped by organ system and listed below by decreasing order of occurrence and with an approximate incidence of occurrence .
Significantly more severe reactions are listed before the other reactions regardless of frequency .
Greater Than 1 in 100 Patients Body as a Whole : Reported incidences of death range from 6 . 6 per 1 million ( 0 . 00066 percent ) to 1 in 10 , 000 patients ( 0 . 01 percent ) .
Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later , the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor .
Isolated reports of hypotensive collapse and shock following urography are found in the literature .
The incidence of shock is estimated to occur in 1 out of 20 , 000 ( 0 . 005 percent ) patients .
Cardiovascular System : The most frequent adverse reaction to diatrizoate salts is vasodilation ( feeling of warmth ) .
The estimated incidence is 49 percent .
Digestive System : Nausea 6 percent , vomiting 3 percent .
Nervous System : Paresthesia 6 percent , dizziness 5 percent .
Respiratory System : Rhinitis 1 percent , increased cough 2 percent .
Skin and Appendages : Urticaria 1 percent .
Pain at the injection site is estimated to occur in about 12 percent of the patients undergoing urography .
Pain is usually due to extravasation .
Painful hot erythematous swelling above the venipuncture site was estimated to occur in more than 1 percent of the patients undergoing phlebography .
Special Senses : Perversion of taste 11 percent .
Urogenital System : Osmotic nephrosis of the proximal tubular cells is estimated to occur in 23 percent of patients following excretory urography .
Less Than 1 in 100 Patients Other infrequently reported reactions without accompanying incidence rates are listed below , grouped by organ system .
Body as a Whole : Malaria relapse , uremia , high creatinine and BUN ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions ) , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and anemia .
Cardiovascular System : Cerebral hematomas , hemodynamic disturbances , sinus bradycardia , transient electrocardiographic abnormalities , ventricular fibrillation , petechiae , chest pain , and cardiac arrest .
Digestive System : Severe unilateral or bilateral swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands .
Nervous System : Convulsions , paralysis , and coma .
Respiratory System : Asthma , dyspnea , laryngeal edema , pulmonary edema , and bronchospasm .
Skin and Appendages : Skin necrosis .
Special Senses : Bilateral ocular irritation , lacrimation , itching , conjunctival chemosis , infection , and conjunctivitis .
Urogenital : Renal failure , pain .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION After the bladder is emptied , HYPAQUE - CYSTO is gently instilled without force , often beyond the first desire to micturate , but not beyond the point of urgency or mild discomfort .
The volume required to fill the bladder to slightly less than capacity may vary from patient to patient .
Bladder capacity in normal adults is generally 200 mL to 300 mL , and rarely , up to 600 mL .
Capacity at birth is 20 mL to 50 mL , and increases about 400 percent in the first year .
In children 3 to 5 years old , bladder capacity is 150 mL to 180 mL .
In children older than 8 years , it is in the low adult range .
In disease , bladder capacity in adults may vary from 50 mL in a hypertonic reflex bladder to over 1000 mL in an atonic or sensory paralytic bladder or chronic lower urinary tract obstruction .
Repeat examination may be required to detect reflux , or in function studies .
The concentration varies with technique and equipment used .
HYPAQUE - CYSTO may be diluted with sterile water or 5 percent dextrose solution , as indicated in the following table .
A 10 percent solution is isotonic .
STANDARD PACKAGE ( 250 mL of HYPAQUE - CYSTO in 500 mL bottle ) TO MAKE ADD FINAL SOLUTION CONTAINS Final conc .
Final volume Sterile water or 5 % dextrose solution Iodine 30 % 250 mL _ 141 mg / mL 25 % 300 mL 50 mL 118 mg / mL 21 . 4 % 350 mL 100 mL 101 mg / mL 20 % 375 mL 125 mL 94 mg / mL 18 . 8 % 400 mL 150 mL 88 mg / mL 16 . 7 % 450 mL 200 mL 78 mg / mL 15 % 500 mL 250 mL 71 mg / mL Note : To achieve the following concentrations some of the contrast agent must be removed prior to dilution .
TO MAKE REMOVE ADD FINAL SOLUTION CONTAINS Final conc .
Final volume [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sterile water or 5 % dextrose solution Iodine 12 % 500 mL 50 mL 300 mL 56 mg / mL 12 % 375 mL 100 mL 225 mL 56 mg / mL 10 % 450 mL 100 mL 300 mL 47 mg / mL Dilution and withdrawal of the contrast agent should be accomplished under aseptic conditions with sterile syringes .
The solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED STANDARD PACKAGE Calibrated 500 mL dilution bottles containing 250 mL HYPAQUE - CYSTO ; rubber stoppered , with hangers , inner removable seal and screw neck .
Box of 10 ( NDC 0407 - 0734 - 10 ) Protect from light .
Contains no preservatives , therefore , discard any unused portion remaining in the container .
Store at 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Distributed by Amersham Health Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Printed in USA Revised February 2003 HNC - 3 D
