Rx Only DESCRIPTION : NuCort ® ( hydrocortisone acetate 2 % ) is a low potency topical lotion containing : Hydrocortisone Acetate 2 % in a base containing : Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Benzyl Alcohol , C12 - 15 Alkyl Bensoate , Camphor , Cetyl Alcohol , Cetyl Palmitate , Dimethicone , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Menthol , PEG - 7 Glyceryl Cocoate , Polysorbate 60 , Purified Water , Sorbitan Stearate , Squalane and Triethanolamine NuCort ® contains a synthetic corticosteroid used as an anti - inflammatory Hydrocortisone acetate Molecular weight : 404 . 50 .
Solubility of hydrocortisone acetate in water : 1 mg / 100 mL .
Chemical name : Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11β ) - .
The structural formula of hydrocortisone acetate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or disease processes in the skin increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : NuCort lotion is a topical corticosteroid and is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Topical corticosteroid products are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamicpituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
In pediatric patients absorption may result in higher blood levels and thus more susceptibility to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Do not use this medication for any disorder other than for which it has been prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressings .
• Do not use any tight fitting diapers or plastic pants on a pediatric patient being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : • Urinary free cortisol test • ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women of teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Caution should be exercised when any topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - Induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s Syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisone levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious using the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen and reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : Burning , Itching , Irritation , Dryness , Folliculitis , Hypertrichosis , Acneiform eruptions , Hypopigmentation , Perioral dermatitis , Allergic contact dermatitis , Maceration of the skin , Secondary infection , Skin atrophy , Striae , Miliaria OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply to affected area 3 to 4 times daily .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
HOW SUPPLIED : NuCort ® is supplied in 2 oz .
bottles ( NDC 15014 - 0185 - 01 , NDC 15014 - 0185 - 02 ) Store upright at controlled room temperature 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Gentex Pharma Madison , MS 39110 Rev . 08 / 10 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 . 7 g NDC 15014 - 0815 - 02 NuCort TM 2 % Hydrocortisone Acetate with Aloe Dermatoses Soothing Lotion Net Wt 2 oz Rx Only Gentex Pharma Madison , MS 39110 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
