1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GONITRO is indicated for acute relief of an attack or prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
GONITRO is a nitrate vasodilator indicated for acute relief of an attack or prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • At the onset of an attack , administer one or two packets ( 400 mcg each ) under the tongue .
One additional packet may be administered every 5 minutes as needed .
No more than three total packets ( 1200 mcg ) are recommended within a 15 minute period .
( 2 . 1 ) • If chest pain persists after three packets , advise prompt medical attention .
( 2 . 1 ) • May be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Administer one or two packets ( 400 mcg of nitroglycerin per packet ) at the onset of an attack under the tongue .
One additional packet may be administered every five minutes as needed .
No more than three packets are recommended within a 15 - minute period .
If the chest pain persists after a total of threepackets , seek prompt medical attention .
GONITRO may be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
2 . 2 Administration Administer GONITRO at rest , ideally in the sitting position .
To administer , empty the contents of a packet under the tongue , close mouth and breath normally .
Allow powder to dissolve without swallowing .
Do not rinse or spit for 5 minutes after dosing .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sublingual powder , 400 mcg per packet .
( 3 ) GONITRO ( nitroglycerin ) sublingual powder , in packets containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Use of phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitors , such as avanafil , sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil , or soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators .
( 4 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Severe anemia .
( 4 . 2 ) • Increased intracranial pressure .
( 4 . 3 ) • Hypersensitivity to GONITRO or to other nitrates or nitrites or any excipient .
( 4 . 4 ) • Circulatory failure and shock .
( 4 . 5 ) 4 . 1 PDE - 5 - Inhibitors and sGC - Stimulators Do not use GONITRO in patients who are taking PDE - 5 - Inhibitors , such as avanafil , sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil .
Concomitant use can cause severe hypotension , syncope , or myocardial ischemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Do not use GONITRO in patients who are taking soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators , such as riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
4 . 2 Severe Anemia GONITRO is contraindicated in patients with severe anemia ( large doses of nitroglycerin may cause oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin and could exacerbate anemia ) .
4 . 3 Increased Intracranial Pressure GONITRO may precipitate or aggravate increased intracranial pressure and thus should not be used in patients with possible increased intracranial pressure ( e . g . cerebral hemorrhage or traumatic brain injury ) .
4 . 4 Hypersensitivity GONITRO is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to nitroglycerin , other nitrates or nitrites or any excipient .
4 . 5 Circulatory Failure and Shock GONITRO is contraindicated in patients with acute circulatory failure or shock .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tolerance : Excessive use may lead to tolerance .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypotension : Severe hypotension may occur .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Tolerance Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance .
Only the smallest number of doses required for effective relief of the acute angina attack should be used [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur even with small doses of nitroglycerin particularly in patients with constrictive pericarditis , aortic or mitral stenosis , patients who may be volume - depleted , or are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Symptoms of severe hypotension ( nausea , vomiting , weakness , pallor , perspiration and collapse / syncope ) may occur even with therapeutic doses .
5 . 3 Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy .
5 . 4 Headache Nitroglycerin produces dose - related headaches , especially at the start of nitroglycerin therapy , which may be severe and persistent but usually subside with continued use .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions occurring at a frequency greater than 2 % are headache , dizzinesss and paresthesia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allegis Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 866 - 633 - 9033 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Adverse reactions occurring at a frequency greater than 2 % and greater than placebo included : headache , dizziness , and paresthesia .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of GONITRO and other nitroglycerin drugs .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Neurologic : weakness , drowsiness Dermatologic : cutaneous vasodilation , flushing , drug rash , exfoliative dermatitits Gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting Respiratory : transient hypoxemia Cardiovascular : tachycardia 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensives : possible additive hypotensive effects .
( 7 . 2 ) • Ergotamine : increased bioavailability of ergotamine .
Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 PDE - 5 - Inhibitors and sGC - Stimulators GONITRO is contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) - specific phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE - 5 ) .
PDE - 5 - Inhibitors such as avanafil , sildenafil , vardenafil , and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
GONITRO is contraindicated in patients who are taking soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of these interactions have not been studied , and use within a few days of one another is not recommended .
Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
7 . 2 Antihypertensives Patients receiving antihypertensive drugs , beta - adrenergic blockers , and nitrates should be observed for possible additive hypotensive effects .
Marked orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used concomitantly .
Beta - adrenergic blockers blunt the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effects .
If beta - blockers are used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris , additional hypotensive effects may occur .
7 . 3 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first - pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability .
Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris .
Therefore , patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk summary Limited published data on the use of nitroglycerin are insufficient to determine a drug associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no adverse developmental effects when nitroglycerin was administered intravenously to rabbits or intraperitoneally to rats during organogenesis at doses greater than 64 - times the human dose [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No embryotoxic or postnatal development effects were observed with transdermal application in pregnant rabbits and rats at doses up to 240 mg / kg / day for 13 days , at intraperitoneal doses in pregnant rats up to 20 mg / kg / day for 11 days , and at intravenous doses in pregnant rabbits up to 4 mg / kg / day for 13 days .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary Sublingual nitroglycerin has not been studied in lactating women .
It is not known if nitroglycerin is present in human milk or if nitroglycerin has effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for nitroglycerin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from nitroglycerin or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of nitroglycerin in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly ( greater than or equal to 65 years ) and younger ( less than 65 years ) patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms , Methemoglobinemia Nitrate overdosage may result in : severe hypotension , persistent throbbing headache , vertigo , palpitation , visual disturbance , flushing and perspiring skin ( later becoming cold and cyanotic ) , nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) , syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) , methemoglobinemia with cyanosis and anorexia , initial hyperpnea , dyspnea and slow breathing , slow pulse ( dicrotic and intermittent ) , heart block , increased intracranial pressure with cerebral symptoms of confusion and moderate fever , paralysis and coma followed by clonic convulsions , and possibly death due to circulatory collapse .
Case reports of clinically significant methemoglobinemia are rare at conventional doses of organic nitrates .
The formation of methemoglobin is dose - related and in the case of genetic abnormalities of hemoglobin that favor methemoglobin formation , even conventional doses of organic nitrates could produce harmful concentrations of methemoglobin .
10 . 2 Treatment of Overdosage As hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known .
Keep the patient recumbent in a shock position and comfortably warm .
Passive movement of the extremities may aid venous return .
Intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
Administer oxygen and artificial ventilation , if necessary .
If methemoglobinemia is present , administration of methylene blue ( 1 % solution ) , 1 - 2 mg per kilogram of body weight intravenously , may be required unless the patient is known to have G - 6 - PD deficiency .
If an excessive quantity of GONITRO has been recently swallowed gastric lavage may be of use .
As epinephrine is ineffective in reversing the severe hypotensive events associated with overdosage , it is not recommended for resuscitation .
11 DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilator which has effects on both arteries and veins .
The chemical name for nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate ( C3H5N3O9 ) .
The compound has a molecular weight of 227 . 09 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] GONITRO is a powder containing nitroglycerin .
Each packet of GONITRO delivers 400 mcg of nitroglycerin when administered under the tongue .
The sublingual powder is formulated with the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous dibasic calcium phosphate , isomalt , medium - chain triglycerides , peppermint oil , and oleoyl polyoxylglycerides .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nitroglycerin forms free radical nitric oxide ( NO ) , which activates guanylate cyclase , resulting in an increase of guanosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate ( cyclic GMP ) in smooth muscle and other tissues .
This eventually leads to dephosphorylation of myosin light chains , which regulates the contractile state in smooth muscle and results in vasodilatation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
Although venous effects predominate , nitroglycerin produces , in a dose - related manner , dilation of both arterial and venous beds .
Dilation of the postcapillary vessels , including large veins , promotes peripheral pooling of blood , decreases venous return to the heart , and reduces left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( preload ) .
Nitroglycerin also produces arteriolar relaxation , thereby reducing peripheral vascular resistance and arterial pressure ( after load ) , and dilates large epicardial coronary arteries ; however , the extent to which this latter effect contributes to the relief of exertional angina is unclear .
Therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin may reduce systolic , diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure .
Effective coronary perfusion pressure is usually maintained , but can be compromised if blood pressure falls excessively or increased heart rate decreases diastolic filling time .
Elevated central venous and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures , and pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance are also reduced by nitroglycerin therapy .
Heart rate is usually slightly increased , presumably a reflex response to the fall in blood pressure .
Cardiac index may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Myocardial oxygen consumption or demand ( as measured by the pressure - rate product , tension - time index , and stroke - work index ) is decreased and a more favorable supply - demand ratio can be achieved .
Patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure and increased systemic vascular resistance in association with a depressed cardiac index are likely to experience an improvement in cardiac index .
In contrast , when filling pressures and cardiac index are normal , cardiac index may be slightly reduced following nitroglycerin administration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a pharmacokinetic study a single 800 mcg dose of GONITRO was administered sublingually to healthy volunteers ( n = 32 ) , the mean Cmax and tmax for GTN were 1 , 700 pg / mL and 7 minutes , respectively .
Additionally , in these subjects the mean area under the curve ( AUC ) for GTN was 12 , 300 pg / mL .
min .
The results of the study indicate that the sublingual absorption of GTN is higher following the administration of GONITRO compared to Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray .
A liver reductase enzyme is of primary importance in the metabolism of nitroglycerin to glycerol di - and mononitrate metabolites and ultimately to glycerol and organic nitrate .
Known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
In addition to nitroglycerin , 2 major metabolites , 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin are found in plasma .
The mean elimination half - life of both 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is about 40 minutes .
The 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites have been reported to possess some pharmacological activity , whereas the glycerol mononitrate metabolites of nitroglycerin are essentially inactive .
Higher plasma concentrations of the dinitro metabolites , with their nearly 8 - fold longer elimination half - lives , may contribute significantly to the duration of pharmacologic effect .
The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin following intravenous administration is 3 . 3 L / kg .
Drug interactions Aspirin : Coadministration of nitroglycerin with high dose aspirin ( 1000 mg ) results in increased exposure to nitroglycerin .
The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of nitroglycerin with high dose aspirin .
Tissue - type plasminogen activator ( t - PA ) : Concomitant administration of t - PA and intravenous nitroglycerin has been shown to reduce plasma levels of t - PA and its thrombolytic effect .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal carcinogenesis studies with sublingual nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes were 52 % vs . 0 % in controls , and incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs . 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was weakly mutagenic in Ames tests performed in two different laboratories .
There was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , p . o . , or in in vitro cytogenic tests in rat and dog tissues and for chromosomal aberration in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
In a three - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for six months prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this three - generation study there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , double - blind single - dose , 5 - period cross - over study in 51 patients with exertional angina pectoris significant dose - related increases in exercise tolerance , time to onset of angina and ST - segment depression were seen following doses of 200 - 1600 mcg of sublingual nitroglycerin as compared to placebo .
The drug showed a profile of mild to moderate adverse events .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each box of GONITRO ( nitroglycerin ) sublingual powder , contains 12 , 36 or 96 packets .
Each packet contains 400 mcg of nitroglycerin .
GONITRO is available as : • Box of 12 packets NDC 28595 - 705 - 12 • Box of 36 packets NDC 28595 - 705 - 36 • Box of 96 packets NDC 28595 - 705 - 96 Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 5 ° C – 40 ° C ( 41 ° F – 104 ° F ) .
Rx Only .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved Instructions for Use .
Manufactured for Allegis Pharmaceuticals , LLC Canton , MS 39046 by G . Pohl - Boskamp GmbH & Co .
KG 25551 Hohenlockstedt , Germany .
U . S . Patent No . 9 , 101 , 592 Instructions for Use GONITRO ( GO - NYE - troh ) ( nitroglycerin ) sublingual powder Read these Instructions for Use before you start taking GONITRO and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Important information : • GONITRO is for use under the tongue .
• A dose of GONITRO may be either 1 or 2 packets .
Follow your healthcare provider ' s instructions about how many packets you should take for each dose .
After you take your first dose of GONITRO , you may take 1 additional packet of GONITRO every 5 minutes , if needed .
• You should not take more than 3 packets of GONITRO within 15 minutes .
• Get emergency medical help right away if you still have chest pain after taking a total of 3 packets of GONITRO .
• It is best to take GONITRO while you are resting and in a sitting position .
Taking a dose of GONITRO Step 1 .
Hold the packet of GONITRO upright with the notch and red arrow line at the top of the packet .
Step 2 .
Tap the bottom of the GONITRO packet so that the powder settles at the bottom of the packet .
Step 3 .
Hold the GONITRO packet at the notch .
Hold the packet as close to your mouth as possible and tear along the red arrow line .
Step 4 .
Lift up your tongue .
Step 5 .
Pour all of the powder in the GONITRO packet under your tongue .
Step 6 .
Close your mouth right away and breathe normally through your nose .
Allow all of the powder to dissolve before you swallow .
Do not rinse your mouth or spit for 5 minutes after taking GONITRO .
Step 7 .
If another dose of GONITRO is needed , repeat Steps 1 through 6 .
• Regularly check the number of packets remaining in your GONITRO box and refill your prescription when there are three packets remaining .
How should I store GONITRO Store GONITRO at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep GONITRO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for Allegis Pharmaceuticals , LLC Canton , MS 39046 by G . Pohl - Boskamp GmbH & Co .
KG 25551 Hohenlockstedt , Germany .
Issued : 07 / 2019 Prinicpal Display PanelNDC 28595 - 705 - 12 GONITRO ® ( nitroglycerin ) sublingual powder 400 mcg per packet 12 single dose packets [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prinicpal Display Panel NDC 28595 - 705 - 36 GONITRO ® ( nitroglycerin ) sublingual powder 400 mcg per packet 36 single dose packets [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prinicpal Display Panel NDC 28595 - 705 - 96 GONITRO ® ( nitroglycerin ) sublingual powder 400 mcg per packet 96 single dose packets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
