[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use DESCRIPTION * Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % specially formulates 12 % lactic acid neutralized with ammonium hydroxide , as ammonium lactate to provide a lotion pH of 4 . 5 - 5 . 5 .
It also contains cetyl alcohol , fragrance , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , laureth - 4 , light mineral oil , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylcellulose , methylparaben , PEG - 100 stearate , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , and purified water .
Lactic acid is a racemic mixture of 2 - hydroxypropanoic acid and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Lactic acid is an alpha - hydroxy acid , it is a normal constituent of tissues and blood .
The alpha - hydroxy acids ( and their salts ) may act as humectants when applied to the skin .
This property may influence hydration of the stratum corneum .
In addition , lactic acid , when applied to the skin , may act to decrease corneocyte cohesion .
The mechanism ( s ) by which this is accomplished is not yet known .
An in vitro study of percutaneous absorption of ammonium lactate lotion , 12 % using human cadaver skin indicates that approximately 5 . 8 % of the material was absorbed after 68 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % is indicated for the treatment of dry , scaly skin ( xerosis ) and ichthyosis vulgaris , and for the temporary relief of itching associated with these conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the label ingredients .
WARNING Sun exposure ( natural or artificial sunlight ) to areas of the skin treated with Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % should be minimized or avoided ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The use of Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % should be discontinued if any hypersensitivity is observed .
PRECAUTIONS General - For external use only .
Stinging or burning may occur when applied to skin with fissures , erosions , or that is otherwise abraded ( for example , after shaving the legs ) .
Caution is advised when used on the face because of the potential for irritation .
The potential for post - inflammatory hypo - or hyperpigmentation has not been studied .
Information for Patients Patients using Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician , and should not be used for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips , or mucous membranes .
• 2 .
Patients should minimize or avoid use of this product on areas of the skin that may be exposed to natural or artificial sunlight , including the face .
If sun exposure is unavoidable , clothing should be worn to protect the skin .
• 3 .
This medication may cause transient stinging or burning when applied to skin with fissures , erosions , or abrasions ( for example , after shaving the legs ) .
• 4 .
If the skin condition worsens with treatment , the medication should be promptly discontinued .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - The topical treatment of CD - 1 mice with 12 % , 21 % or 30 % ammonium lactate formulations for two - years did not produce a significant increase in dermal or systemic tumors in the absence of increased exposure to ultraviolet radiation .
The maximum systemic exposure of the mice in this study was 0 . 7 times the maximum possible systemic exposure in humans .
However , a long - term photocarcinogenicity study in hairless albino mice suggested that topically applied 12 % ammonium lactate formulations enhanced the rate of ultraviolet light - induced skin tumor formation .
The mutagenic potential of ammonium lactate formulations was evaluated in the Ames assay and in the mouse in vivo micronucleus assay , both of which were negative .
In dermal Segment I and III studies with ammonium lactate formulations there were no effects observed in fertility or pre - or postnatal development parameters in rats at dose levels of 300 mg / kg / day ( 1800 mg / m2 / day ) , approximately 0 . 4 times the human topical dose .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category B – Animal reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 0 . 7 and 1 . 5 times the human dose , respectively ( 600 mg / kg / day , corresponding to 3600 mg / m2 / day in the rat and 7200 mg / m2 / day in the rabbit ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ammonium lactate formulations .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - Although lactic acid is a normal constituent of blood and tissues , it is not known to what extent this drug affects normal lactic acid levels in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ammonium lactate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness of ammonium lactate have been demonstrated in infants and children .
No unusual toxic effects were reported .
Geriatric Use - Clinical studies of ammonium lactate lotion , 12 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse experiences in patients with xerosis are transient stinging ( 1 in 30 patients ) , burning ( 1 in 30 patients ) , erythema ( 1 in 50 patients ) and peeling ( 1 in 60 patients ) .
Other adverse reactions which occur less frequently are irritation , eczema , petechiae , dryness , and hyperpigmentation .
Due to the more severe initial skin conditions associated with ichthyosis , there was a higher incidence of transient stinging , burning and erythema ( each occurring in 1 in 10 patients ) .
OVERDOSAGE The oral administration of ammonium lactate to rats and mice showed this drug to be practically non - toxic ( LD50 > 15 mL / kg ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Shake well .
Apply to the affected areas and rub in thoroughly .
Use twice daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Ammonium Lactate Lotion , 12 % is available as follows : 225 g bottle ( NDC 63629 - 8610 - 1 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo , Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo , Allegan , MI 49010 0K5A7 RC F6 Rev 01 - 17 Ammonium Lactate 12 % Lotion , # 225 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
