( Potency expressed as betamethasone ) * Vehicle augments the penetration of the steroid .
FOR DERMATOLOGICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only DESCRIPTION Betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % , contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
Betamethasone dipropionate is included in a class of compounds consisting primarily of synthetic corticosteroids for use topically as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the molecular formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) contains : 0 . 64 mg betamethasone dipropionate , USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) , in an augmented gel base of carbomer homopolymer type C , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , betamethasone dipropionate has anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation , such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes , by inhibiting the release of their common pre - cursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
In addition , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) is a super - high potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Treatment beyond two consecutive weeks is not recommended , and the total dose should not exceed 50 g per week because of potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
This product is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and it should not be used on the face , groin , or in the axillae .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
At 7 g per day ( applied once daily or as 3 . 5 g twice daily ) , betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) was shown to cause inhibition of the HPA axis following application for one , two or three weeks to diseased skin in some patients with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis .
These effects were reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
Patients receiving betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) applied to large areas should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH - stimulation , morning plasma cortisol and urinary free - cortisol tests .
Patients should not be treated with betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) for more than 2 weeks at a time , and amounts greater than 50 g per week should not be used because of the potential for the drug to suppress the HPA axis .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant fungal and / or bacterial skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • The medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• The medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test , Morning plasma - cortisol test , Urinary free - cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Studies in rabbits , mice and rats using intramuscular doses up to 1 , 33 and 2 mg / kg , respectively , resulted in dose related increases in fetal resorptions in the rabbits and mice .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately 26 times the human topical dose of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) assuming human percutaneous absorption of approximately 3 % and the use in a 70 kg person of 7 g per day .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele , and cleft palate .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate in pregnant women .
Therefore , betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Data regarding use of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) in pediatric patients are not available , so use of this product in patients under the age of 12 is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects , including striae , have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and pediatric patients .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) included 65 subjects who were 65 years of age and over and 15 subjects who were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the total incidence of adverse events associated with the use of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) was 10 % .
These included stinging or burning in 6 % of patients , dry skin in 4 % of patients , and pruritus in 2 % of patients .
Less frequently reported adverse reactions were irritation , skin atrophy , telangiectasia , erythema , cracking / tightening of the skin , follicular rash , and allergic contact dermatitis .
The following additional local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with super - high potency corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) .
These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence : acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , secondary infection , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) to the affected skin once or twice daily and rub it in gently and completely .
Betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) is a super - high potency topical corticosteroid ; therefore , treatment should be limited to two weeks , and amounts greater than 50 g per week should not be used .
Betamethasone dipropionate gel ( augmented ) should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone Dipropionate Gel ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is supplied as follows : 15 g NDC 51672 - 1309 - 1 50 g NDC 51672 - 1309 - 3 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 PK - 4240 - 1 0116 - 1 28 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Carton NDC 51672 - 1309 - 1 15 g Betamethasone Dipropionate Gel ( Augmented * ) , 0 . 05 % ( Potency expressed as betamethasone ) * Vehicle augments the penetration of the steroid .
FOR DERMATOLOGICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
