Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) 9 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclophosphamide is an alkylating drug indicated for treatment of : • Malignant Diseases : malignant lymphomas : Hodgkin ' s disease , lymphocytic lymphoma , mixed - cell type lymphoma , histiocytic lymphoma , Burkitt ' s lymphoma ; multiple myeloma , leukemias , mycosis fungoides , neuroblastoma , adenocarcinoma of ovary , retinoblastoma , breast carcinoma .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Malignant Diseases Cyclophosphamide is indicated for the treatment of : • malignant lymphomas ( Stages III and IV of the Ann Arbor staging system ) , Hodgkin ' s disease , lymphocytic lymphoma ( nodular or diffuse ) , mixed - cell type lymphoma , histiocytic lymphoma , Burkitt ' s lymphoma • multiple myeloma • leukemias : chronic lymphocytic leukemia , chronic granulocytic leukemia ( it is usually ineffective in acute blastic crisis ) , acute myelogenous and monocytic leukemia , acute lymphoblastic ( stem - cell ) leukemia ( cyclophosphamide given during remission is effective in prolonging its duration ) • mycosis fungoides ( advanced disease ) • neuroblastoma ( disseminated disease ) • adenocarcinoma of the ovary • retinoblastoma • carcinoma of the breast Cyclophosphamide , although effective alone in susceptible malignancies , is more frequently used concurrently or sequentially with other antineoplastic drugs .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION During or immediately after the administration , adequate amounts of fluid should be ingested or infused to force diuresis in order to reduce the risk of urinary tract toxicity .
Therefore , cyclophosphamide should be administered in the morning .
Malignant Diseases : Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2 . 1 ) • Intravenous : Initial course for patients with no hematologic deficiency : 40 mg per kg to 50 mg per kg in divided doses over 2 to 5 days .
Other regimens include 10 mg per kg to 15 mg per kg given every 7 to 10 days or 3 mg per kg to 5 mg per kg twice weekly .
2 . 1 Dosing for Malignant Diseases Adults and Pediatric Patients Intravenous When used as the only oncolytic drug therapy , the initial course of cyclophosphamide for patients with no hematologic deficiency usually consists of 40 mg per kg to 50 mg per kg given intravenously in divided doses over a period of 2 to 5 days .
Other intravenous regimens include 10 mg per kg to 15 mg per kg given every 7 to 10 days or 3 mg per kg to 5 mg per kg twice weekly .
When cyclophosphamide is included in combined cytotoxic regimens , it may be necessary to reduce the dose of cyclophosphamide as well as that of the other drugs .
2 . 3 Preparation , Handling and Administration Handle and dispose of cyclophosphamide in a manner consistent with other cytotoxic drugs . 1 Caution should be exercised when handling and preparing Cyclophosphamide Injection .
To minimize the risk of dermal exposure , always wear gloves when handling vials containing Cyclophosphamide Injection .
Cyclophosphamide Injection Intravenous Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Cyclophosphamide does not contain any antimicrobial preservative and thus care must be taken to assure the sterility of prepared solutions .
Use aseptic technique .
For Direct Intravenous Injection Aseptically withdraw the prescribed dose from the vial .
Dilute the prescribed dose of Cyclophosphamide Injection to a concentration of 20 mg per mL by using any of the following diluents : • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Do not use Sterile Water for Injection , USP because it results in a hypotonic solution and should not be injected directly .
For Intravenous Infusion Aseptically withdraw the prescribed dose from the vial .
Dilute the prescribed dose of Cyclophosphamide Injection to a concentration of 2 mg per mL by using any of the following diluents : • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP To reduce the likelihood of adverse reactions that appear to be administration rate - dependent ( e . g . , facial swelling , headache , nasal congestion , scalp burning ) , cyclophosphamide should be injected or infused very slowly .
Duration of the infusion also should be appropriate for the volume and type of carrier fluid to be infused .
Storage of Diluted Cyclophosphamide Solution : If not used immediately , for microbiological integrity , cyclophosphamide solutions should be stored as described in Table 1 : Table 1 : Storage of Cyclophosphamide Solutions Diluent Storage Room Temperature Refrigerated Diluted solutions ( 20 mg / mL ) 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days Diluted Solutions ( 2 mg / mL ) 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days Storage of Undiluted Cyclophosphamide Solution : After first use , store partially used multiple - dose vial in the original carton at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 28 days .
Discard unused portion after 28 days .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cyclophosphamide Injection is a 200 mg per mL sterile clear colorless ready to dilute solution in a multiple - dose vial available in the following presentations : • 500 mg per 2 . 5 mL • 1 gram per 5 mL • 2 grams per 10 mL Cyclophosphamide Injection : 200 mg per mL ( 500 mg per 2 . 5 mL , 1 gram per 5 mL and 2 grams per 10 mL ) in a multiple - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • HypersensitivityCyclophosphamide is contraindicated in patients who have a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to it , any of its metabolites , or to other components of the product .
Anaphylactic reactions including death have been reported with cyclophosphamide .
Possible cross - sensitivity with other alkylating agents can occur .
• Urinary Outflow ObstructionCyclophosphamide is contraindicated in patients with urinary outflow obstruction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to cyclophosphamide ( 4 ) • Urinary outflow obstruction ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Myelosuppression , Immunosuppression , Bone Marrow Failure and Infections - Severe immunosuppression may lead to serious and sometimes fatal infections .
Close hematological monitoring is required .
( 5 . 1 ) • Urinary Tract and Renal Toxicity - Hemorrhagic cystitis , pyelitis , ureteritis , and hematuria can occur .
Exclude or correct any urinary tract obstructions prior to treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • Cardiotoxicity - Myocarditis , myopericarditis , pericardial effusion , arrhythmias and congestive heart failure , which may be fatal , have been reported .
Monitor patients , especially those with risk factors for cardio toxicity or pre - existing cardiac disease .
( 5 . 3 ) • Pulmonary Toxicity - Pneumonitis , pulmonary fibrosis and pulmonary veno - occlusive disease leading to respiratory failure may occur .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity .
( 5 . 4 ) • Secondary Malignancies ( 5 . 5 ) • Veno - occlusive Liver Disease - Fatal outcome can occur .
( 5 . 6 ) • Alcohol Content - The alcohol content in a dose of Cyclophosphamide Injection may affect the central nervous system .
This may include impairment of a patient ' s ability to drive or use machines immediately after infusion .
( 5 . 7 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity - Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to the fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 8 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression , Immunosuppression , Bone Marrow Failure and Infections Cyclophosphamide can cause myelosuppression ( leukopenia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , bone marrow failure , and severe immunosuppression which may lead to serious and sometimes fatal infections , including sepsis and septic shock .
Latent infections can be reactivated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Antimicrobial prophylaxis may be indicated in certain cases of neutropenia at the discretion of the managing physician .
In case of neutropenic fever , antibiotic therapy is indicated .
Antimycotics and / or antivirals may also be indicated .
Monitoring of complete blood counts is essential during cyclophosphamide treatment so that the dose can be adjusted , if needed .
Cyclophosphamide should not be administered to patients with neutrophils ≤ 1 , 500 / mm3 and platelets < 50 , 000 / mm3 .
Cyclophosphamide treatment may not be indicated , or should be interrupted , or the dose reduced , in patients who have or who develop a serious infection .
G - CSF may be administered to reduce the risks of neutropenia complications associated with cyclophosphamide use .
Primary and secondary prophylaxis with G - CSF should be considered in all patients considered to be at increased risk for neutropenia complications .
The nadirs of the reduction in leukocyte count and thrombocyte count are usually reached in weeks 1 and 2 of treatment .
Peripheral blood cell counts are expected to normalize after approximately 20 days .
Bone marrow failure has been reported .
Severe myelosuppression may be expected particularly in patients pretreated with and / or receiving concomitant chemotherapy and / or radiation therapy .
5 . 2 Urinary Tract and Renal Toxicity Hemorrhagic cystitis , pyelitis , ureteritis , and hematuria have been reported with cyclophosphamide .
Medical and / or surgical supportive treatment may be required to treat protracted cases of severe hemorrhagic cystitis .
Discontinue cyclophosphamide therapy in case of severe hemorrhagic cystitis .
Urotoxicity ( bladder ulceration , necrosis , fibrosis , contracture and secondary cancer ) may require interruption of cyclophosphamide treatment or cystectomy .
Urotoxicity can be fatal .
Urotoxicity can occur with short - term or long - term use of cyclophosphamide .
Before starting treatment , exclude or correct any urinary tract obstructions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Urinary sediment should be checked regularly for the presence of erythrocytes and other signs of urotoxicity and / or nephrotoxicity .
Cyclophosphamide should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active urinary tract infections .
Aggressive hydration with forced diuresis and frequent bladder emptying can reduce the frequency and severity of bladder toxicity .
Mesna has been used to prevent severe bladder toxicity .
5 . 3 Cardiotoxicity Myocarditis , myopericarditis , pericardial effusion including cardiac tamponade , and congestive heart failure , which may be fatal , have been reported with cyclophosphamide therapy .
Supraventricular arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation and flutter ) and ventricular arrhythmias ( including severe QT prolongation associated with ventricular tachyarrhythmia ) have been reported after treatment with regimens that included cyclophosphamide .
The risk of cardiotoxicity may be increased with high doses of cyclophosphamide , in patients with advanced age , and in patients with previous radiation treatment to the cardiac region and / or previous or concomitant treatment with other cardiotoxic agents .
Particular caution is necessary in patients with risk factors for cardiotoxicity and in patients with pre - existing cardiac disease .
Monitor patients with risk factors for cardiotoxicity and with pre - existing cardiac disease .
5 . 4 Pulmonary Toxicity Pneumonitis , pulmonary fibrosis , pulmonary veno - occlusive disease and other forms of pulmonary toxicity leading to respiratory failure have been reported during and following treatment with cyclophosphamide .
Late onset pneumonitis ( greater than 6 months after start of cyclophosphamide ) appears to be associated with increased mortality .
Pneumonitis may develop years after treatment with cyclophosphamide .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity .
5 . 5 Secondary Malignancies Cyclophosphamide is genotoxic [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Secondary malignancies ( urinary tract cancer , myelodysplasia , acute leukemias , lymphomas , thyroid cancer , and sarcomas ) have been reported in patients treated with cyclophosphamide - containing regimens .
The risk of bladder cancer may be reduced by prevention of hemorrhagic cystitis .
5 . 6 Veno - occlusive Liver Disease Veno - occlusive liver disease ( VOD ) including fatal outcome has been reported in patients receiving cyclophosphamide - containing regimens .
A cytoreductive regimen in preparation for bone marrow transplantation that consists of cyclophosphamide in combination with whole - body irradiation , busulfan , or other agents has been identified as a major risk factor .
VOD has also been reported to develop gradually in patients receiving long - term low - dose immunosuppressive doses of cyclophosphamide .
Other risk factors predisposing to the development of VOD include preexisting disturbances of hepatic function , previous radiation therapy of the abdomen , and a low performance status .
5 . 7 Alcohol Content The alcohol content in a dose of Cyclophosphamide Injection may affect the central nervous system and should be taken into account for patients in whom alcohol intake should be avoided or minimized .
Consideration should be given to the alcohol content in Cyclophosphamide Injection on the ability to drive or use machines immediately after the infusion .
Each administration of Cyclophosphamide Injection at 50 mg per kg delivers 0 . 155 g / kg of ethanol .
For a 75 kg patient this would deliver 11 . 625 grams of ethanol [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
Other cyclophosphamide products may have a different amount of alcohol or no alcohol .
5 . 8 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action and published reports of effects in pregnant patients or animals , Cyclophosphamide Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Exposure to cyclophosphamide during pregnancy may cause birth defects , miscarriage , fetal growth retardation , and fetotoxic effects in the newborn .
Cyclophosphamide is teratogenic and embryo - fetal toxic in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys .
Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiation of Cyclophosphamide Injection .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Cyclophosphamide Injection and for up to 1 year after completion of therapy .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Cyclophosphamide Injection and for 4 months after completion of therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 9 Infertility Male and female reproductive function and fertility may be impaired in patients being treated with Cyclophosphamide Injection .
Cyclophosphamide interferes with oogenesis and spermatogenesis .
It may cause sterility in both sexes .
Development of sterility appears to depend on the dose of cyclophosphamide , duration of therapy , and the state of gonadal function at the time of treatment .
Cyclophosphamide - induced sterility may be irreversible in some patients .
Advise patients on the potential risks for infertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 and 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 10 Impairment of Wound Healing Cyclophosphamide may interfere with normal wound healing .
5 . 11 Hyponatremia Hyponatremia associated with increased total body water , acute water intoxication , and a syndrome resembling SIADH ( syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone ) , which may be fatal , has been reported .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling .
• Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Myelosuppression , Immunosuppression , Bone Marrow Failure , and Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Urinary Tract and Renal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cardiotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Pulmonary Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Secondary Malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Veno - occlusive Liver Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Alcohol Content [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Infertility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 and 8 . 4 ) ] • Impaired Wound Healing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Adverse reactions reported most often include neutropenia , febrile neutropenia , fever , alopecia , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Athenex Pharmaceutical Division , LLC .
at 1 - 855 - 273 - 0154 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Common Adverse Reactions Hematopoietic system : Neutropenia occurs in patients treated with cyclophosphamide .
The degree of neutropenia is particularly important because it correlates with a reduction in resistance to infections .
Fever without documented infection has been reported in neutropenic patients .
Gastrointestinal system : Nausea and vomiting occur with cyclophosphamide therapy .
Anorexia and , less frequently , abdominal discomfort or pain and diarrhea may occur .
There are isolated reports of hemorrhagic colitis , oral mucosal ulceration and jaundice occurring during therapy .
Skin and its structures : Alopecia occurs in patients treated with cyclophosphamide .
Skin rash occurs occasionally in patients receiving the drug .
Pigmentation of the skin and changes in nails can occur .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified from clinical trials or post - marketing surveillance .
Because they are reported from a population from unknown size , precise estimates of frequency cannot be made .
Cardiac : cardiac arrest , ventricular fibrillation , ventricular tachycardia , cardiogenic shock , pericardial effusion ( progressing to cardiac tamponade ) , myocardial hemorrhage , myocardial infarction , cardiac failure ( including fatal outcomes ) , cardiomyopathy , myocarditis , pericarditis , carditis , atrial fibrillation , supraventricular arrhythmia , ventricular arrhythmia , bradycardia , tachycardia , palpitations , QT prolongation .
Congenital , Familial and Genetic : intra - uterine death , fetal malformation , fetal growth retardation , fetal toxicity ( including myelosuppression , gastroenteritis ) .
Ear and Labyrinth : deafness , hearing impaired , tinnitus .
Endocrine : water intoxication .
Eye : visual impairment , conjunctivitis , lacrimation .
Gastrointestinal : gastrointestinal hemorrhage , acute pancreatitis , colitis , enteritis , cecitis , stomatitis , constipation , parotid gland inflammation .
General Disorders and Administrative Site Conditions : multiorgan failure , general physical deterioration , influenza - like illness , injection / infusion site reactions ( thrombosis , necrosis , phlebitis , inflammation , pain , swelling , erythema ) , pyrexia , edema , chest pain , mucosal inflammation , asthenia , pain , chills , fatigue , malaise , headache .
Hematologic : myelosuppression , bone marrow failure , disseminated intravascular coagulation and hemolytic uremic syndrome ( with thrombotic microangiopathy ) .
Hepatic : veno - occlusive liver disease , cholestatic hepatitis , cytolytic hepatitis , hepatitis , cholestasis ; hepatotoxicity with hepatic failure , hepatic encephalopathy , ascites , hepatomegaly , blood bilirubin increased , hepatic function abnormal , hepatic enzymes increased .
Immune : immunosuppression , anaphylactic shock and hypersensitivity reaction .
Infections : The following manifestations have been associated with myelosuppression and immunosuppression caused by cyclophosphamide : increased risk for and severity of pneumonias ( including fatal outcomes ) , other bacterial , fungal , viral , protozoal and , parasitic infections ; reactivation of latent infections , ( including viral hepatitis , tuberculosis ) , Pneumocystis jiroveci , herpes zoster , Strongyloides , sepsis and septic shock .
Investigations : blood lactate dehydrogenase increased , C - reactive protein increased .
Metabolism and Nutrition : hyponatremia , fluid retention , blood glucose increased , blood glucose decreased .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue : rhabdomyolysis , scleroderma , muscle spasms , myalgia , arthralgia .
Neoplasms : acute leukemia , myelodysplastic syndrome , lymphoma , sarcomas , renal cell carcinoma , renal pelvis cancer , bladder cancer , ureteric cancer , thyroid cancer .
Nervous System : encephalopathy , convulsion , dizziness , neurotoxicity has been reported and manifested as reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome , myelopathy , peripheral neuropathy , polyneuropathy , neuralgia , dysesthesia , hypoesthesia , paresthesia , tremor , dysgeusia , hypogeusia , parosmia .
Pregnancy : premature labor .
Psychiatric : confusional state .
Renal and Urinary : renal failure , renal tubular disorder , renal impairment , nephropathy toxic , hemorrhagic cystitis , bladder necrosis , cystitis ulcerative , bladder contracture , hematuria , nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , atypical urinary bladder epithelial cells .
Reproductive System : infertility , ovarian failure , ovarian disorder , amenorrhea , oligomenorrhea , testicular atrophy , azoospermia , oligospermia .
Respiratory : pulmonary veno - occlusive disease , acute respiratory distress syndrome , interstitial lung disease as manifested by respiratory failure ( including fatal outcomes ) , obliterative bronchiolitis , organizing pneumonia , alveolitis allergic , pneumonitis , pulmonary hemorrhage ; respiratory distress , pulmonary hypertension , pulmonary edema , pleural effusion , bronchospasm , dyspnea , hypoxia , cough , nasal congestion , nasal discomfort , oropharyngeal pain , rhinorrhea .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue : toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome , radiation recall dermatitis , toxic skin eruption , urticaria , dermatitis , blister , pruritus , erythema , nail disorder , facial swelling , hyperhidrosis .
Tumor lysis syndrome : like other cytotoxic drugs , cyclophosphamide may induce tumor - lysis syndrome and hyperuricemia in patients with rapidly growing tumors .
Vascular : pulmonary embolism , venous thrombosis , vasculitis , peripheral ischemia , hypertension , hypotension , flushing , hot flush .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cyclophosphamide is a pro - drug that is activated by cytochrome P450s [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
An increase of the concentration of cytotoxic metabolites may occur with : • Protease inhibitors : Concomitant use of protease inhibitors may increase the concentration of cytotoxic metabolites .
Use of protease inhibitor - based regimens was found to be associated with a higher Incidence of infections and neutropenia in patients receiving cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , and etoposide ( CDE ) than use of a Non - Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor - based regimen .
Combined or sequential use of cyclophosphamide and other agents with similar toxicities can potentiate toxicities .
• Increased hematotoxicity and / or immunosuppression may result from a combined effect of cyclophosphamide and , for example : • ACE inhibitors : ACE inhibitors can cause leukopenia .
• Natalizumab • Paclitaxel : Increased hematotoxicity has been reported when cyclophosphamide was administered after paclitaxel infusion .
• Thiazide diuretics • Zidovudine • Increased cardiotoxicity may result from a combined effect of cyclophosphamide and , for example : • Anthracyclines • Cytarabine • Pentostatin • Radiation therapy of the cardiac region • Trastuzumab • Increased pulmonary toxicity may result from a combined effect of cyclophosphamide and , for example : • Amiodarone • G - CSF , GM - CSF ( granulocyte colony - stimulating factor , granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor ) : Reports suggest an increased risk of pulmonary toxicity in patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy that includes cyclophosphamide and G - CSF or GMCSF .
• Increased nephrotoxicity may result from a combined effect of cyclophosphamide and , for example : • Amphotericin B • Indomethacin : Acute water intoxication has been reported with concomitant use of indomethacin • Increase in other toxicities : • Azathioprine : Increased risk of hepatotoxicity ( liver necrosis ) • Busulfan : Increased incidence of hepatic veno - occlusive disease and mucositis has been reported .
• Protease inhibitors : Increased incidence of mucositis • Increased risk of hemorrhagic cystitis may result from a combined effect of cyclophosphamide and past or concomitant radiation treatment .
Etanercept : In patients with Wegener ' s granulomatosis , the addition of etanercept to standard treatment , including cyclophosphamide , was associated with a higher incidence of non - cutaneous malignant solid tumors .
Metronidazole : Acute encephalopathy has been reported in a patient receiving cyclophosphamide and metronidazole .
Causal association is unclear .
In an animal study , the combination of cyclophosphamide with metronidazole was associated with increased cyclophosphamide toxicity .
Tamoxifen : Concomitant use of tamoxifen and chemotherapy may increase the risk of thromboembolic complications .
Coumarins : Both increased and decreased warfarin effect have been reported in patients receiving warfarin and cyclophosphamide .
Cyclosporine : Lower serum concentrations of cyclosporine have been observed in patients receiving a combination of cyclophosphamide and cyclosporine than in patients receiving only cyclosporine .
This interaction may result in an increased incidence of graft - versus - host disease .
Depolarizing muscle relaxants : Cyclophosphamide treatment causes a marked and persistent inhibition of cholinesterase activity .
Prolonged apnea may occur with concurrent depolarizing muscle relaxants ( e . g . , succinylcholine ) .
If a patient has been treated with cyclophosphamide within 10 days of general anesthesia , alert the anesthesiologist .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Verify pregnancy status prior to initiation of Cyclophosphamide Injection .
May impair fertility .
( 8 . 3 ) • Renal Patients : Monitor for toxicity in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment .
( 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action and published reports of effects in pregnant patients or animals , Cyclophosphamide Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Exposure to cyclophosphamide during pregnancy may cause fetal malformations , miscarriage , fetal growth retardation , and toxic effects in the newborn [ see Data ] .
Cyclophosphamide is teratogenic and embryo - fetal toxic in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys [ see Data ] .
Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Human Data Malformations of the skeleton , palate , limbs and eyes as well as miscarriage have been reported after exposure to cyclophosphamide in the first trimester .
Fetal growth retardation and toxic effects manifesting in the newborn , including leukopenia , anemia , pancytopenia , severe bone marrow hypoplasia , and gastroenteritis have been reported after exposure to cyclophosphamide .
Animal Data Administration of cyclophosphamide to pregnant mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys during the period of organogenesis at doses at or below the dose in patients based on body surface area resulted in various malformations , which included neural tube defects , limb and digit defects and other skeletal anomalies , cleft lip and palate , and reduced skeletal ossification .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Cyclophosphamide is present in breast milk .
Neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , low hemoglobin , and diarrhea have been reported in infants breast fed by women treated with cyclophosphamide .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child from Cyclophosphamide Injection , advise lactating women not to breastfeed during the treatment and for 1 week after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to the initiation of Cyclophosphamide Injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Females Cyclophosphamide Injection can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Cyclophosphamide Injection and for up to 1 year after completion of therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Males Based on findings in genetic toxicity and animal reproduction studies , advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Cyclophosphamide Injection and for 4 months after completion of therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Females Amenorrhea , transient or permanent , associated with decreased estrogen and increased gonadotropin secretion develops in a proportion of women treated with cyclophosphamide .
Affected patients generally resume regular menses within a few months after cessation of therapy .
The risk of premature menopause with cyclophosphamide increases with age .
Oligomenorrhea has also been reported in association with cyclophosphamide treatment .
Animal data suggest an increased risk of failed pregnancy and malformations may persist after discontinuation of cyclophosphamide as long as oocytes / follicles exist that were exposed to cyclophosphamide during any of their maturation phases .
The exact duration of follicular development in humans is not known but may be longer than 12 months [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Males Men treated with cyclophosphamide may develop oligospermia or azoospermia which are normally associated with increased gonadotropin but normal testosterone secretion .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Pre - pubescent girls treated with cyclophosphamide generally develop secondary sexual characteristics normally and have regular menses .
Ovarian fibrosis with apparently complete loss of germ cells after prolonged cyclophosphamide treatment in late pre - pubescence has been reported .
Girls treated with cyclophosphamide who have retained ovarian function after completing treatment are at increased risk of developing premature menopause .
Pre - pubescent boys treated with cyclophosphamide develop secondary sexual characteristics normally , but may have oligospermia or azoospermia and increased gonadotropin secretion .
Some degree of testicular atrophy may occur .
Cyclophosphamide - induced azoospermia is reversible in some patients , though the reversibility may not occur for several years after cessation of therapy .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There is insufficient data from clinical studies of cyclophosphamide available for patients 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac functioning , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment , decreased renal excretion may result in increased plasma levels of cyclophosphamide and its metabolites .
This may result in increased toxicity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl = 10 mL / min to 24 mL / min ) for signs and symptoms of toxicity .
Cyclophosphamide and its metabolites are dialyzable although there are probably quantitative differences depending upon the dialysis system being used .
In patients requiring dialysis , use of a consistent interval between cyclophosphamide administration and dialysis should be considered .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Patients with severe hepatic impairment have reduced conversion of cyclophosphamide to the active 4 - hydroxyl metabolite , potentially reducing efficacy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The alcohol content of Cyclophosphamide Injection should be taken into account when given to patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote for cyclophosphamide is known .
Overdosage should be managed with supportive measures , including appropriate treatment for any concurrent infection , myelosuppression , or cardiac toxicity should it occur .
Serious consequences of overdosage include manifestations of dose dependent toxicities such as myelosuppression , urotoxicity , cardiotoxicity ( including cardiac failure ) , veno - occlusive hepatic disease , and stomatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , and 5 . 6 ) ] .
Patients who received an overdose should be closely monitored for the development of toxicities , and hematologic toxicity in particular .
Cyclophosphamide and its metabolites are dialyzable .
Therefore , rapid hemodialysis is indicated when treating any suicidal or accidental overdose or intoxication .
Cystitis prophylaxis with mesna may be helpful in preventing or limiting urotoxic effects with cyclophosphamide overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Cyclophosphamide is a synthetic antineoplastic drug chemically related to the nitrogen mustards .
The chemical name for cyclophosphamide is 2 - [ bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino ] tetrahydro - 2 H - 1 , 3 , 2 - oxazaphosphorine 2 - oxide monohydrate , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyclophosphamide has a molecular formula of C7H15Cl2N2O2P • H2O and a molecular weight of 279 . 1 .
Cyclophosphamide is soluble in water , saline , or ethanol .
Cyclophosphamide Injection is a 200 mg per mL sterile clear colorless solution available as 500 mg , 1 gram and 2 gram strength vials .
• 500 mg vial contains 534 . 5 mg cyclophosphamide monohydrate equivalent to 500 mg cyclophosphamide , 1 . 55 g Ethanol , 0 . 085 g Propylene Glycol , 0 . 085 g Polyethylene glycol 400 and 0 . 345 mg Monothioglycerol .
• 1 gram vial contains 1069 . 0 mg cyclophosphamide monohydrate equivalent to 1 g cyclophosphamide , 3 . 1 g Ethanol , 0 . 17 g Propylene Glycol , 0 . 17 g Polyethylene glycol 400 and 0 . 69 mg Monothioglycerol .
• 2 gram vial contains 2138 . 0 mg cyclophosphamide monohydrate equivalent to 2 g cyclophosphamide , 6 . 2 g Ethanol , 0 . 34 g Propylene Glycol , 0 . 34 g Polyethylene glycol 400 and 1 . 38 mg Monothioglycerol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action is thought to involve cross - linking of tumor cell DNA .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cyclophosphamide is biotransformed principally in the liver to active alkylating metabolites by a mixed function microsomal oxidase system .
These metabolites interfere with the growth of susceptible rapidly proliferating malignant cells .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following IV administration , elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) ranges from 3 to 12 hours with total body clearance ( CL ) values of 4 to 5 . 6 L / h .
Pharmacokinetics are linear over the dose range used clinically .
When cyclophosphamide was administered at 4 . 0 g / m2 over a 90 minutes infusion , saturable elimination in parallel with first - order renal elimination describe the kinetics of the drug .
Distribution Approximately 20 % of cyclophosphamide is protein bound , with no dose dependent changes .
Some metabolites are protein bound to an extent greater than 60 % .
Volume of distribution approximates total body water ( 30 to 50 L ) .
Metabolism The liver is the major site of cyclophosphamide activation .
Approximately 75 % of the administered dose of cyclophosphamide is activated by hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450s including CYP2A6 , 2B6 , 3A4 , 3A5 , 2C9 , 2C18 and 2C19 , with 2B6 displaying the highest 4 - hydroxylase activity .
Cyclophosphamide is activated to form 4 - hydroxycyclophosphamide , which is in equilibrium with its ring - open tautomer aldophosphamide .
4 - hydroxycyclophosphamide and aldophosphamide can undergo oxidation by aldehyde dehydrogenases to form the inactive metabolites 4 - ketocyclophosphamide and carboxyphosphamide , respectively .
Aldophosphamide can undergo β - elimination to form active metabolites phosphoramide mustard and acrolein .
This spontaneous conversion can be catalyzed by albumin and other proteins .
Less than 5 % of cyclophosphamide may be directly detoxified by side chain oxidation , leading to the formation of inactive metabolites 2 - dechloroethylcyclophosphamide .
At high doses , the fraction of parent compound cleared by 4 - hydroxylation is reduced resulting in non - linear elimination of cyclophosphamide in patients .
Cyclophosphamide appears to induce its own metabolism .
Auto - induction results in an increase in the total clearance , increased formation of 4 - hydroxyl metabolites and shortened t1 / 2 values following repeated administration at 12 - to 24 - hour interval .
Elimination Cyclophosphamide is primarily excreted as metabolites .
10 to 20 % is excreted unchanged in the urine and 4 % is excreted in the bile following IV administration .
Special Populations Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide were determined following one - hour intravenous infusion to renally impaired patients .
The results demonstrated that the systemic exposure to cyclophosphamide increased as the renal function decreased .
Mean dose - corrected AUC increased by 38 % in the moderate renal group , ( Creatinine clearance ( CrCl of 25 to 50 mL / min ) , by 64 % in the severe renal group ( CrCl of 10 to 24 mL / min ) and by 23 % in the hemodialysis group ( CrCl of < 10 mL / min ) compared to the control group .
The increase in exposure was significant in the severe group ( p > 0 . 05 ) ; thus , patients with severe renal impairment should be closely monitored for toxicity [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The dialyzability of cyclophosphamide was investigated in four patients on long - term hemodialysis .
Dialysis clearance calculated by arterial - venous difference and actual drug recovery in dialysate averaged 104 mL / min , which is in the range of the metabolic clearance of 95 mL / min for the drug .
A mean of 37 % of the administered dose of cyclophosphamide was removed during hemodialysis .
The elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) was 3 . 3 hours in patients during hemodialysis , a 49 % reduction of the 6 . 5 hours to t1 / 2 reported in uremic patients .
Reduction in t1 / 2 , larger dialysis clearance than metabolic clearance , high extraction efficiency , and significant drug removal during dialysis , suggest that cyclophosphamide is dialyzable .
Hepatic Impairment Total body clearance ( CL ) of cyclophosphamide is decreased by 40 % in patients with severe hepatic impairment and elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) is prolonged by 64 % .
Mean CL and t1 / 2 were 45 ± 8 . 6 L / kg and 12 . 5 ± 1 . 0 hours respectively , in patients with severe hepatic impairment and 63 ± 7 . 6 L / kg and 7 . 6 ± 1 . 4 hours respectively in the control group [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Cyclophosphamide administered by different routes , including intravenous , subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injection , or in drinking water , caused tumors in both mice and rats .
In addition to leukemia and lymphoma , benign and malignant tumors were found at various tissue sites , including urinary bladder , mammary gland , lung , liver , and injection site [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Cyclophosphamide was mutagenic and clastogenic in multiple in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicology studies .
Cyclophosphamide is genotoxic in male and female germ cells .
Animal data indicate that exposure of oocytes to cyclophosphamide during follicular development may result in a decreased rate of implantations and viable pregnancies , and in an increased risk of malformations .
Male mice and rats treated with cyclophosphamide show alterations in male reproductive organs ( e . g . , decreased weights , atrophy , changes in spermatogenesis ) , and decreases in reproductive potential ( e . g . , decreased implantations and increased post - implantation loss ) and increases in fetal malformations when mated with untreated females [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
15 REFERENCES • OSHA Hazardous drugs .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Cyclophosphamide Injection is a 200 mg per mL , clear , colorless , ready - to - dilute solution containing cyclophosphamide , USP , supplied as follows : NDC Cyclophosphamide Injection ( 200 mg per mL ) Package Factor 70860 - 218 - 03 500 mg per 2 . 5 mL Multiple - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton 70860 - 218 - 05 1 gram per 5 mL Multiple - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton 70860 - 218 - 10 2 grams per 10 mL Multiple - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton Storage Conditions Store the vials refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Store diluted solutions of cyclophosphamide according to Table 1 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] Cyclophosphamide is an antineoplastic product .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures1 .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient of the following : Myelosuppression , Immunosuppression , and Infections • Inform patients of the possibility of myelosuppression , immunosuppression , and infections .
Explain the need for routine blood cell counts .
Instruct patients to monitor their temperature frequently and immediately report any occurrence of fever [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Urinary Tract and Renal Toxicity • Advise the patient to report urinary symptoms ( patients should report if their urine has turned a pink or red color ) and the need for increasing fluid intake and frequent voiding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cardiotoxicity • Advise patients to contact a health care professional immediately for any of the following : new onset or worsening shortness of breath , cough , swelling of the ankles / legs , palpitations , weight gain of more than 5 pounds in 24 hours , dizziness or loss of consciousness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pulmonary Toxicity • Warn patients of the possibility of developing non - infectious pneumonitis .
Advise patients to report promptly any new or worsening respiratory symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Alcohol Content • Explain to patients the possible effects of the alcohol content in Cyclophosphamide Injection , including possible effects on central nervous system .
Patients in whom alcohol should be avoided or minimized should consider the alcohol content of Cyclophosphamide Injection .
Alcohol could impair their ability to drive or use machines immediately after infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Inform female patients of the risk to a fetus and potential loss of the pregnancy .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for up to 1 year after completion of therapy [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after completion of therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation • Advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of Cyclophosphamide Injection [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility • Cyclophosphamide Injection may impair fertility in males and females of reproductive potential [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 , 8 . 4 ) ] .
Common Adverse Reactions • Explain to patients that side effects such as nausea , vomiting , stomatitis , impaired wound healing , amenorrhea , premature menopause , sterility and hair loss may be associated with cyclophosphamide administration .
Other undesirable effects ( including , e . g . , dizziness , blurred vision , visual impairment ) could affect the ability to drive or use machines [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 and 6 . 2 ) ] .
Athenex Mfd .
for Athenex Schaumburg , IL 60173 ( USA ) Made in Switzerland © 2021 Athenex .
Revised : September 2021 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL NDC 70860 - 218 - 03 Cyclophosphamide Injection 500 mg per 2 . 5 mL ( 200 mg per mL ) Rx only Must Dilute Before IV Use 2 . 5 mL Multiple - Dose Vial REFRIGERATE Caution : Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL NDC 70860 - 218 - 05 Cyclophosphamide Injection 1 gram per 5 mL ( 200 mg per mL ) Rx only Must Dilute Before IV Use 5 mL Multiple - Dose Vial REFRIGERATE Caution : Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL NDC 70860 - 218 - 10 Cyclophosphamide Injection 2 grams per 10 mL ( 200 mg per mL ) Rx only Must Dilute Before IV Use 10 mL Multiple - Dose Vial REFRIGERATE Caution : Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
