DESCRIPTION PENTASA ( mesalamine ) for oral administration is a controlled - release formulation of mesalamine , an aminosalicylate anti - inflammatory agent for gastrointestinal use .
Chemically , mesalamine is 5 - amino - 2 - hydroxybenzoic acid .
It has a molecular weight of 153 . 14 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 250 mg capsule contains 250 mg of mesalamine .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : acetylated monoglyceride , castor oil , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , starch , stearic acid , sugar , talc , and white wax .
The capsule shell contains D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Green # 3 , gelatin , titanium dioxide , and other ingredients .
Each 500 mg capsule contains 500 mg of mesalamine .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : acetylated monoglyceride , castor oil , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , starch , stearic acid , sugar , talc , and white wax .
The capsule shell contains FD & C Blue # 1 , gelatin , titanium dioxide , and other ingredients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sulfasalazine is split by bacterial action in the colon into sulfapyridine ( SP ) and mesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) .
It is thought that the mesalamine component is therapeutically active in ulcerative colitis .
The usual oral dose of sulfasalazine for active ulcerative colitis in adults is 2 to 4 g per day in divided doses .
Four grams of sulfasalazine provide 1 . 6 g of free mesalamine to the colon .
The mechanism of action of mesalamine ( and sulfasalazine ) is unknown , but appears to be topical rather than systemic .
Mucosal production of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolites , both through the cyclooxygenase pathways , ie , prostanoids , and through the lipoxygenase pathways , ie , leukotrienes ( LTs ) and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids ( HETEs ) , is increased in patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease , and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin ( PG ) production in the colon .
Human Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Absorption .
PENTASA is an ethylcellulose - coated , controlled - release formulation of mesalamine designed to release therapeutic quantities of mesalamine throughout the gastrointestinal tract .
Based on urinary excretion data , 20 % to 30 % of the mesalamine in PENTASA is absorbed .
In contrast , when mesalamine is administered orally as an unformulated 1 - g aqueous suspension , mesalamine is approximately 80 % absorbed .
Plasma mesalamine concentration peaked at approximately 1 μg / mL 3 hours following a 1 - g PENTASA dose and declined in a biphasic manner .
The literature describes a mean terminal half - life of 42 minutes for mesalamine following intravenous administration .
Because of the continuous release and absorption of mesalamine from PENTASA throughout the gastrointestinal tract , the true elimination half - life cannot be determined after oral administration .
N - acetylmesalamine , the major metabolite of mesalamine , peaked at approximately 3 hours at 1 . 8 μg / mL , and its concentration followed a biphasic decline .
Pharmacological activities of N - acetylmesalamine are unknown , and other metabolites have not been identified .
Oral mesalamine pharmacokinetics were nonlinear when PENTASA capsules were dosed from 250 mg to 1 g four times daily , with steady - state mesalamine plasma concentrations increasing about nine times , from 0 . 14 μg / mL to 1 . 21 μg / mL , suggesting saturable first - pass metabolism .
N - acetylmesalamine pharmacokinetics were linear .
Elimination .
About 130 mg free mesalamine was recovered in the feces following a single 1 - g PENTASA dose , which was comparable to the 140 mg of mesalamine recovered from the molar equivalent sulfasalazine tablet dose of 2 . 5 g . Elimination of free mesalamine and salicylates in feces increased proportionately with PENTASA dose .
N - acetylmesalamine was the primary compound excreted in the urine ( 19 % to 30 % ) following PENTASA dosing .
CLINICAL TRIALS In two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , dose - response trials ( UC - 1 and UC - 2 ) of 625 patients with active mild to moderate ulcerative colitis , PENTASA , at an oral dose of 4 g / day given 1 g four times daily , produced consistent improvement in prospectively identified primary efficacy parameters , PGA , Tx F , and SI as shown in the table below .
The 4 - g dose of PENTASA also gave consistent improvement in secondary efficacy parameters , namely the frequency of trips to the toilet , stool consistency , rectal bleeding , abdominal / rectal pain , and urgency .
The 4 - g dose of PENTASA induced remission as assessed by endoscopic and symptomatic endpoints .
In some patients , the 2 - g dose of PENTASA was observed to improve efficacy parameters measured .
However , the 2 - g dose gave inconsistent results in primary efficacy parameters across the two adequate and well - controlled trials .
Parameter Evaluated Clinical Trial UC - 1 Clinical Trial - UC - 2 PL ( n = 90 ) PENTASA PL ( n = 83 ) PENTASA 4 g / day ( n = 95 ) 2 g / day ( n = 97 ) 4 g / day ( n = 85 ) 2 g / day ( n = 83 ) PGA 36 % 59 % * 57 % * 31 % 55 % * 41 % Tx F 22 % 9 % * 18 % 31 % 9 % * 17 % * SI - 2 . 5 - 5 . 0 * - 4 . 3 * - 1 . 6 - 3 . 8 * - 2 . 6 Remission + 12 % 26 % * 24 % * 12 % 27 % * 12 % * p < 0 . 05 vs placebo .
PGA : Physician Global Assessment : proportion of patients with complete or marked improvement .
Tx F : Treatment Failure : proportion of patients developing severe or fulminant UC requiring steroid therapy or hospitalization or worsening of the disease at 7 days of therapy , or lack of significant improvement by 14 days of therapy .
SI : Sigmoidoscopic Index : an objective measure of disease activity rated by a standard ( 15 - point ) scale that includes mucosal vascular pattern , erythema , friability , granularity / ulcerations , and mucopus : improvement over baseline .
+ Defined as complete resolution of symptoms plus improvement of endoscopic endpoints .
To be considered in remission , patients had a " 1 " score for one of the endoscopic components ( mucosal vascular pattern , erythema , granularity , or friability ) and " 0 " for the others .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PENTASA is indicated for the induction of remission and for the treatment of patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PENTASA is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to mesalamine , any other components of this medication , or salicylates .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution should be exercised if PENTASA is administered to patients with impaired hepatic function .
Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from a flare of inflammatory bowel disease .
Although the exact frequency of occurrence cannot be ascertained , it has occurred in 3 % of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine .
Symptoms include cramping , acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea , sometimes fever , headache , and rash .
If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected , prompt withdrawal is required .
If a rechallenge is performed later in order to validate the hypersensitivity , it should be carried out under close medical supervision at reduced dose and only if clearly needed .
Renal Caution should be exercised if PENTASA is administered to patients with impaired renal function .
Single reports of nephrotic syndrome and interstitial nephritis associated with mesalamine therapy have been described in the foreign literature .
There have been rare reports of interstitial nephritis in patients receiving PENTASA .
In animal studies , a 13 - week oral toxicity study in mice and 13 - week and 52 - week oral toxicity studies in rats and cynomolgus monkeys have shown the kidney to be the major target organ of mesalamine toxicity .
Oral daily doses of 2400 mg / kg in mice and 1150 mg / kg in rats produced renal lesions including granular and hyaline casts , tubular degeneration , tubular dilation , renal infarct , papillary necrosis , tubular necrosis , and interstitial nephritis .
In cynomolgus monkeys , oral daily doses of 250 mg / kg or higher produced nephrosis , papillary edema , and interstitial fibrosis .
Patients with preexisting renal disease , increased BUN or serum creatinine , or proteinuria should be carefully monitored , especially during the initial phase of treatment .
Mesalamine - induced nephrotoxicity should be suspected in patients developing renal dysfunction during treatment .
Interference with Laboratory Tests Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection , because of the similarity in the chromatograms of normetanephrine and mesalamine ' s main metabolite , N - acetylaminosalicylic acid ( N - Ac - 5 - ASA ) .
An alternative , selective assay for normetanephrine should be considered .
Drug Interactions There are no data on interactions between PENTASA and other drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week dietary carcinogenicity study of mesalamine , CD - 1 mice were treated with doses up to 2500 mg / kg / day and it was not tumorigenic .
For a 50 kg person of average height ( 1 . 46 m2 body surface area ) , this represents 2 . 5 times the recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ( 2960 mg / m2 / day ) .
In a 104 - week dietary carcinogenicity study in Wistar rats , mesalamine up to a dose of 800 mg / kg / day was not tumorigenic .
This dose represents 1 . 5 times the recommended human dose on a body surface area basis .
No evidence of mutagenicity was observed in an in vitro Ames test and in an in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
No effects on fertility or reproductive performance were observed in male or female rats at oral doses of mesalamine up to 400 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 8 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) .
Semen abnormalities and infertility in men , which have been reported in association with sulfasalazine , have not been seen with PENTASA capsules during controlled clinical trials .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( 5900 mg / M2 ) and rabbits at doses of 800 mg / kg / day ( 6856 mg / M2 ) and have revealed no evidence of teratogenic effects or harm to the fetus due to mesalamine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , PENTASA should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Mesalamine is known to cross the placental barrier .
Nursing Mothers Minute quantities of mesalamine were distributed to breast milk and amniotic fluid of pregnant women following sulfasalazine therapy .
When treated with sulfasalazine at a dose equivalent to 1 . 25 g / day of mesalamine , 0 . 02 μg / mL to 0 . 08 μg / mL and trace amounts of mesalamine were measured in amniotic fluid and breast milk , respectively .
N - acetylmesalamine , in quantities of 0 . 07 μg / mL to 0 . 77 μg / mL and 1 . 13 μg / mL to 3 . 44 μg / mL , was identified in the same fluids , respectively .
Caution should be exercised when PENTASA is administered to a nursing woman .
No controlled studies with PENTASA during breast - feeding have been carried out .
Hypersensitivity reactions like diarrhea in the infant cannot be excluded .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of PENTASA in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In combined domestic and foreign clinical trials , more than 2100 patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn ' s disease received PENTASA therapy .
Generally , PENTASA therapy was well tolerated .
The most common events ( ie , greater than or equal to 1 % ) were diarrhea ( 3 . 4 % ) , headache ( 2 . 0 % ) , nausea ( 1 . 8 % ) , abdominal pain ( 1 . 7 % ) , dyspepsia ( 1 . 6 % ) , vomiting ( 1 . 5 % ) , and rash ( 1 . 0 % ) .
In two domestic placebo - controlled trials involving over 600 ulcerative colitis patients , adverse events were fewer in PENTASA ® ( mesalamine ) - treated patients than in the placebo group ( PENTASA 14 % vs placebo 18 % ) and were not dose - related .
Events occurring in more than 1 % are shown in the table below .
Of these , only nausea and vomiting were more frequent in the PENTASA group .
Withdrawal from therapy due to adverse events was more common on placebo than PENTASA ( 7 % vs 4 % ) .
Table 1 .
Adverse Events Occurring in More than 1 % of Either Placebo or PENTASA Patients in Domestic Placebo - controlled Ulcerative Colitis Trials .
( PENTASA Comparison to Placebo ) Event PENTASA n = 451 Placebo n = 173 Diarrhea Headache Nausea Abdominal Pain Melena ( Bloody Diarrhea ) Rash Anorexia Fever Rectal Urgency Nausea and Vomiting Worsening of Ulcerative Colitis Acne 16 ( 3 . 5 % ) 10 ( 2 . 2 % ) 14 ( 3 . 1 % ) 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) 4 ( 0 . 9 % ) 6 ( 1 . 3 % ) 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) 4 ( 0 . 9 % ) 1 ( 0 . 2 % ) 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) 2 ( 0 . 4 % ) 1 ( 0 . 2 % ) 13 ( 7 . 5 % ) 6 ( 3 . 5 % ) ----- 7 ( 4 . 0 % ) 6 ( 3 . 5 % ) 2 ( 1 . 2 % ) 2 ( 1 . 2 % ) 2 ( 1 . 2 % ) 4 ( 2 . 3 % ) ----- 2 ( 1 . 2 % ) 2 ( 1 . 2 % ) Clinical laboratory measurements showed no significant abnormal trends for any test , including measurement of hematological , liver , and kidney function .
The following adverse events , presented by body system , were reported infrequently ( ie , less than 1 % ) during domestic ulcerative colitis and Crohn ' s disease trials .
In many cases , the relationship to PENTASA has not been established .
Gastrointestinal : abdominal distention , anorexia , constipation , duodenal ulcer , dysphagia , eructation , esophageal ulcer , fecal incontinence , GGTP increase , GI bleeding , increased alkaline phosphatase , LDH increase , mouth ulcer , oral moniliasis , pancreatitis , rectal bleeding , SGOT increase , SGPT increase , stool abnormalities ( color or texture change ) , thirst Dermatological : acne , alopecia , dry skin , eczema , erythema nodosum , nail disorder , photosensitivity , pruritus , sweating , urticaria Nervous System : depression , dizziness , insomnia , somnolence , paresthesia Cardiovascular : palpitations , pericarditis , vasodilation Other : albuminuria , amenorrhea , amylase increase , arthralgia , asthenia , breast pain , conjunctivitis , ecchymosis , edema , fever , hematuria , hypomenorrhea , Kawasaki - like syndrome , leg cramps , lichen planus , lipase increase , malaise , menorrhagia , metrorrhagia , myalgia , pulmonary infiltrates , thrombocythemia , thrombocytopenia , urinary frequency One week after completion of an 8 - week ulcerative colitis study , a 72 - year - old male , with no previous history of pulmonary problems , developed dyspnea .
The patient was subsequently diagnosed with interstitial pulmonary fibrosis without eosinophilia by one physician and bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonitis by a second physician .
A causal relationship between this event and mesalamine therapy has not been established .
Published case reports and / or spontaneous postmarketing surveillance have described infrequent instances of pericarditis , fatal myocarditis , chest pain and T - wave abnormalities , hypersensitivity pneumonitis , pancreatitis , nephrotic syndrome , interstitial nephritis , hepatitis , aplastic anemia , pancytopenia , leukopenia , agranulocytosis , or anemia while receiving mesalamine therapy .
Anemia can be a part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease .
Allergic reactions , which could involve eosinophilia , can be seen in connection with PENTASA therapy .
Postmarketing Reports The following events have been identified during post - approval use of the PENTASA brand of mesalamine in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to mesalamine : Gastrointestinal : Reports of hepatotoxicity , including elevated liver enzymes ( SGOT / AST , SGPT / ALT , GGT , LDH , alkaline phosphatase , bilirubin ) , hepatitis , jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , cirrhosis , and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure .
Some of these cases were fatal .
One case of Kawasaki - like syndrome which included hepatic function changes was also reported .
Other : Postmarketing reports of anaphylactic reaction , Steven - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , pneumonitis , granulocytopenia , systemic lupus erythematosis , acute renal failure , chronic renal failure and angioedema have been received in patients taking PENTASA .
OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of mesalamine up to 5 g / kg in pigs or a single intravenous dose of mesalamine at 920 mg / kg in rats were not lethal .
There is no clinical experience with PENTASA overdosage .
PENTASA is an aminosalicylate , and symptoms of salicylate toxicity may be possible , such as : tinnitus , vertigo , headache , confusion , drowsiness , sweating , hyperventilation , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Severe intoxication with salicylates can lead to disruption of electrolyte balance and blood - pH , hyperthermia , and dehydration .
Treatment of Overdosage .
Since PENTASA is an aminosalicylate , conventional therapy for salicylate toxicity may be beneficial in the event of acute overdosage .
This includes prevention of further gastrointestinal tract absorption by emesis and , if necessary , by gastric lavage .
Fluid and electrolyte imbalance should be corrected by the administration of appropriate intravenous therapy .
Adequate renal function should be maintained .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage for the induction of remission and the symptomatic treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis is 1 g ( 4 PENTASA 250 mg capsules or 2 PENTASA 500 mg capsules ) 4 times a day for a total daily dosage of 4 g .
Treatment duration in controlled trials was up to 8 weeks .
PENTASA capsules may be swallowed whole , or alternatively , the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce or yogurt .
The entire contents should be consumed immediately .
The capsules and capsule contents must not be crushed or chewed .
Safety and efficacy of PENTASA in pediatric patients have not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 68151 - 4769 NDC : 68151 - 4769 - 8 1 CAPSULE in a PACKAGE Mesalamine 250 mg CR caps [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
