DESCRIPTION Intralipid ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) Pharmacy Bulk Package is a sterile , non - pyrogenic fat emulsion intended as a source of calories and essential fatty acids for use in a pharmacy admixture program .
It is made up of 20 % Soybean Oil , 1 . 2 % Egg Yolk Phospholipids , 2 . 25 % Glycerin , and Water for Injection .
In addition , sodium hydroxide has been added to adjust the pH so that the final product pH is 8 .
pH range is 6 to 8 . 9 .
Intralipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for direct infusion .
It is a sterile dosage form which contains several single doses for use in the preparation of three - in - one or total nutrient admixtures ( TNAs ) in a pharmacy admixture program .
The soybean oil is a refined natural product consisting of a mixture of neutral triglycerides of predominantly unsaturated fatty acids with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] where [ MULTIMEDIA ] are saturated and unsaturated fatty acid residues .
The major component fatty acids are linoleic ( 44 - 62 % ) , oleic ( 19 - 30 % ) , palmitic ( 7 - 14 % ) , linolenic ( 4 - 11 % ) and stearic ( 1 . 4 - 5 . 5 % ) 1 .
These fatty acids have the following chemical and structural formulas : Linoleic acid C 18 H 32 O 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oleic acid C 18 H 34 O 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Palmitic acid C 16 H 32 O 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linolenic acid C 18 H 30 O 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Stearic acid C 18 H 36 O 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purified egg phosphatides are a mixture of naturally occurring phospholipids which are isolated from the egg yolk .
These phospholipids have the following general structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] contain saturated and unsaturated fatty acids that abound in neutral fats .
R 3 is primarily either the choline or ethanolamine ester of phosphoric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Phosphatidylcholine Phosphatidylethanolamine Glycerin is chemically designated C 3 H 8 O 3 and is a clear colorless , hygroscopic syrupy liquid .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Intralipid ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) has an osmolality of approximately 350 mOsmol / kg water ( which represents 260 mOsmol / liter of emulsion ) and contains emulsified fat particles of approximately 0 . 5 micron size .
The total caloric value , including fat , phospholipid and glycerin , is 2 . 0 kcal per mL of Intralipid ® 20 % .
The phospholipids present contribute 47 milligrams or approximately 1 . 5 mmol of phosphorus per 100 mL of the emulsion .
The primary container is manufactured from Excel ® film , a polypropylene based material comprised of three co - extruded layers .
The plastic container is made from multilayered film specifically designed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Intralipid ® is metabolized and utilized as a source of energy causing an increase in heat production , decrease in respiratory quotient and increase in oxygen consumption .
The infused fat particles are cleared from the blood stream in a manner thought to be comparable to the clearing of chylomicrons .
Intralipid ® will prevent the biochemical lesions of essential fatty acid deficiency ( EFAD ) , and correct the clinical manifestations of the EFAD syndrome .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intralipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package is indicated for use in a pharmacy admixture program for the preparation of three - inone or total nutrition admixtures ( TNAs ) to provide a source of calories and essential fatty acids for patients requiring parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time ( usually for more than 5 days ) and a source of essential fatty acids for prevention of EFAD .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The administration of Intralipid ® is contraindicated in patients with disturbances of normal fat metabolism such as pathologic hyperlipemia , lipoid nephrosis or acute pancreatitis if accompanied by hyperlipidemia .
INTRALIPID ® 20 % PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS NOT INTENDED FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION .
DILUTING INTRALIPID ® 20 % TO A 10 % CONCENTRATION WITH INTRAVENOUS FLUID SUCH AS NORMAL SALINE OR OTHER DILUENTS DOES NOT PRODUCE A DILLITION THAT IS EQUIVALENT IN COMPOSITION TO INTRALIPID ® 10 % I . V . FAT EMULSION , AND SUCH A DILUTION SHOULD NOT BE GIVEN BY DIRECT INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION .
BOXED WARNING Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous fat emulsion have been reported in the medical literature .
2 Autopsy findings included intravascular fat accumulation in the lungs .
Treatment of premature and low birth weight infants with intravenous fat emulsion must be based upon careful benefit - risk assessment .
Strict adherence to the recommended total daily dose is mandatory ; hourly infusion rate should be as slow as possible in each case and should not in any case exceed 1 g fat / kg in four hours .
Premature and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous fat emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following fat emulsion infusion ; therefore , serious consideration must be given to administration of less than the maximum recommended doses in these patients in order to decrease the likelihood of intravenous fat overload .
The infant ’ s ability to eliminate the infused fat from the circulation must be carefully monitored ( such as serum triglycerides and / or plasma free fatty acid levels ) .
The lipemia must clear between daily infusions .
WARNINGS Caution should be exercised in administering of Intralipid ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) to patients with severe liver damage , pulmonary disease , anemia or blood coagulation disorders , or when there is danger of fat embolism as occurs in post traumatic fractures of the pelvis and of long bones .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS When Intralipid ® is administered , the patients capacity to eliminate the infused fat from the circulation must be monitored by use of an appropriate laboratory determination of serum triglycerides .
Overdosage must be avoided .
During long term intravenous nutrition with Intralipid ® , liver function tests should be performed .
If these tests indicate that liver function is impaired , the therapy should be withdrawn .
Frequent ( some advise daily ) platelet counts should be done in neonatal patients receiving parenteral nutrition with Intralipid ® .
Drug product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility .
Studies with Intralipid ® have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Intralipid ® .
It is also not known whether Intralipid ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Intralipid ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Intralipid ® is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
AVOID OVERDOSAGE ABSOLUTELY .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions observed can be separated into two classes : • Those more frequently encountered are due either to a ) contamination of the intravenous catheter and result in sepsis , or to b ) vein irritation by concurrently infused hypertonic solutions and may result in thrombophlebitis .
These adverse reactions are inseparable from the hyperalimentation procedure with or without Intralipid ® .
• Less frequent reactions more directly related to Intralipid ® are : a ) immediate or early adverse reactions , each of which has been reported to occur in clinical trials , in an incidence of less than 1 % : dyspnea , cyanosis , allergic reactions , hyperlipemia , hypercoagulability , nausea , vomiting , headache , flush - ing , increase in temperature , sweating , sleepiness , pain in the chest and back , slight pressure over the eyes , dizziness , and irritation at the site of infusion , and , rarely , thrombocytopenia in neonates ; b ) delayed adverse reactions such as hepatomegaly , jaundice due to central lobular cholestasis , splenomegaly , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , transient increases in liver function tests , and overloading syndrome ( focal seizures , fever , leukocytosis , hepatomegaly .
splenomegaly and shock ) .
The deposition of a brown pigmentation in the reticuloendothelial system , the so - called “ intravenous fat pigment , ” has been reported in patients infused with Intralipid ® .
The causes and significance of this phenomenon are unknown .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of fat overload during therapy , stop the infusion containing Intralipid ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) until visual inspection of the plasma , determination of triglyceride concentrations , or measurement of plasma light - scattering activity by nephelometry indicates the lipid has cleared .
Re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Intralipid ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) Pharmacy Bulk Package should be administered only as a part of a three - in - one or total nutrient admixture via peripheral vein or by central venous infusion .
Directions For Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package .
INTRALIPID ® 20 % PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS NOT INTENDED FOR DIRECT INFUSION .
The container closure may be penetrated only once using a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
Once the closure is penetrated , the contents should be dispensed as soon as possible ; the transfer of contents to suitable TPN admixture containers must be completed within 4 hours of closure penetration .
The bag should be stored below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) after the closure has been entered .
Date and time of container entry should be noted in the area designated on the container label .
Admixtures made using Intralipid ® 20 % should be used promptly .
See MIXING GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS section for admixture storage recommendations .
Adult Patients The initial infusion rate of the nutrient admixture in adults should be 0 . 1 g fat / minute for the first 15 to 30 minutes of infusion .
If no untoward reactions occur ( see ADVERSE .
REACTIONS section ) , the infusion rate can be increased to 0 . 2 g fat / minute .
For adults , the admixture should not contain more than 500 mL of Intralipid ® 20 % on the first day of therapy .
If the patient has no untoward reactions , the dose can be increased on the following day .
The daily dosage should not exceed 2 . 5 g of fat / kg of body weight ( 12 . 5 mL of Intralipid ® 20 % per kg ) .
Intralipid ® should make up no more than 60 % of the total caloric input to the patient .
Carbohydrate and a source of amino acids should comprise the remaining caloric input .
Pediatric Patients The dosage for premature infants starts at 0 . 5 g fat / kg body weight / 24 hours ( 2 . 5 mL Intralipid ® 20 % ) and may be increased in relation to the infant ’ s ability to eliminate fat .
The maximum dosage recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics is 3 g fat / kg / 24 hours 3 The initial rate of infusion in older pediatric patients should be no more than 0 . 01 g fat / minute for the first 10 to 15 minutes .
If no untoward reactions occur , the rate can be changed to permit infusion of 0 . 1 g of fat / kg / hour .
The daily dosage should not exceed 3 g of fat / kg of body weight 3 Intralipid ® should make up no more than 60 % of the total caloric input to the patient .
Carbohydrate and a source of amino acids should comprise the remaining caloric input .
Essential Fatty Acid Deficiency When Intralipid ® is administered to correct essential fatty acid deficiency , eight to ten percent of the caloric input should be supplied by Intralipid ® in order to provide adequate amounts of linoleic and linolenic acids .
When EFAD occurs together with stress , the amount of Intralipid ® needed to correct the deficiency may be increased .
Administration See MIXING GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS section for information regarding mixing this fat emulsion with other parenteral fluids .
INTRALIPID ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . FAT EMULSION ) PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS NOT INTENDED FOR DIRECT INFUSION .
It must be infused as part of an admixture into a central or peripheral vein .
The flow rate of the admixture should be controlled with an infusion pump .
Filters of less than 1 . 2 micron pore size must not be used with admixtures containing Intralipid ® 20 % .
Conventional administration sets and TPN pooling bags contain polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) components that have DEHP ( diethyl hexyl phthalate ) as a plasticizer .
Fat - containing fluids such as Intralipid ® extract DEHP from these PVC components .
Therefore it may be advisable to use a non - DEHP administration set for infusing admixtures which contain Intralipid ® .
Do not use any bag in which there appears to be an oiling out on the surface of the emulsion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
whenever solution and container permit .
MIXING GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS Investigations have been conducted which demonstrate the compatibility of Intralipid ® 20 % when properly mixed with either Novamine ® ( 8 . 5 % , 11 . 4 % or 15 % ) or 8 . 5 % Travasol ® or 10 % Travasol ® Amino Acid Injections without Electrolytes for use in TPN therapy .
Because of the potential for life threatening events , caution should be taken to ensure that precipitates have not formed in any parenteral nutrition mixture .
Perform all manipulations in a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood .
Failure to follow the Mixing Guidelines and Limitations below , including recommended storage temperature , storage time .
order of mixing , etc . , may result in an unstable admixture .
The following proper mixing sequence must be followed to minimize pH related problems by ensuring that typically acidic Dextrose Injections are not mixed with lipid emulsions alone : • Transfer Dextrose Injection to the TPN ( Total Parenteral Nutrition ) Admixture Container • Transfer Amino Acid Injection • Transfer Intralipid ® 20 % Note : Amino Acid Injection , ( Novamine ® 8 . 5 , 11 . 4 or 15 % or 8 . 5 Travasol ® 8 . 5 or 15 % without electrolytes ) , Dextrose Injection and Intralipid ® 20 % may be simultaneously transferred to the admixture container using an automatic mixer .
Admixing should be accompanied by gentle agitation to avoid localized concentration effects .
These admixtures should be used promptly with storage under refrigeration ( 2 - 8 ° C ) not to exceed 24 hours and must be completely used within 24 hours after removal from refrigeration .
It is essential that the admixture be prepared using strict aseptic techniques as this nutrient mixture is a good growth medium for microorganisms .
Additives other than those named above may be incompatible .
Complete information is not available .
Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
Do not store solutions containing additives ( e . g . , vitamins and minerals ) .
Additives must not be added directly to Intralipid ® 20 % ( A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) Pharmacy Bulk Package and in no case should Intralipid ® 20 % be added to the TPN container first .
Bags should be shaken gently after each addition to minimize localized concentration .
Supplemental electrolytes , trace metals or multivitamins may be required in accordance with the prescription of the attending physician .
The prime destabilizers of emulsions are excessive acidity ( low pH ) and inappropriate electrolyte content .
Careful consideration should be given to addition of divalent cations ( Ca + + and Mg + + ) which have been shown to cause emulsion instability .
Amino acid solutions exert a buffering effect protecting the emulsion .
The admixture should be inspected carefully for “ breaking or oiling out ” of the emulsion .
“ Breaking or oiling out ” is described as the separation of the emulsion and can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion .
The admixture should also be examined for particulates .
The admixture must be discarded if any of the above is observed .
HOW SUPPLIED Intralipid ® 20 % is supplied as a sterile emulsion in 1000 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package .
1000 mL NDC 0338 - 0519 - 04 Intralipid ® 20 % is also available in the following fill sizes ( see package insert 335 809 ) .
100 mL : 0338 - 519 - 48 .
250 mL : 0338 - 519 - 02 .
500 mL : 0338 - 519 - 03 STORAGE Intralipid ® 20 % should not be stored above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze Intralipid ® 20 % .
If accidentally frozen , discard the bag .
REFERENCES • Padley FB : “ Major Vegetable Fats , ” The Lipid Handbook Gunstone FD , Harwood JL , Padley FB , eds . )
, Chapman and Hall Ltd . , Cambridge , UK ( 1986 ) , pp . 88 - 9 .
• Levene MI , Wigglesworth JS , Desai R : Pulmonary fat accumulation after Intralipid ® infusion in the preterm infant .
Lancet 1980 ; 2 ( 8199 ) : 815 - 8 .
• American Academy of Pediatrics : Use of intravenous fat emulsion in pediatric patients .
Pediatrics 1981 ; 68 : 5 ( Nov ) 738 - 43 .
( Rev June 2006 ) Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Clintec Nutrition Division Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Manufactured by Fresenius Kabi , Uppsala , Sweden Intralipid ® is a registered trademark of Fresenius Kabi AB .
Novamine ® is a registered trademark of Fresenius Kabi AB .
Travasol ® is a registered trademark of Baxter Healthcare Corporation .
Instruction for Use - Intralipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package Container 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The integrity indicator ( Oxalert ™ ) A should be inspected before removing the overpouch .
If the indicator is black the overpouch is damaged and the product should be discarded .
2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the overwrap by tearing at the notch and pulling down along the container .
The Oxalert ™ sachet A and the oxygen absorber B should be disposed .
3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove set port cover lifting ring with thumb and forefinger and pulling upwards .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Intralipid 1000 mL Bag Label NDC 0338 - 0519 - 04 Intralipid ® 20 % A 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion 1000 mL Excel ® Container Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
