Active Ingredient ( per spray ) Lidocaine approx .
10 mg Purpose Anesthetic Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Use : Helps in temporarily slowing the onset of ejaculation .
Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use if • You or your partner are allergic to lidocaine or topical anesthetics .
• Your partner is , or may be pregnant .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if • You have liver problems .
When using this product • Do not spray on broken , irritated or sensitive skin .
• Avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor • If you or your partner develop a rash or irritation , such as burning or itching , dicontinue use .
If symptoms persist , consult a doctor .
• Premature ejaculation may be due to a condition requiring medical supervision .
If this product , used as directed does not provide relief , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Directions : Break front tab first .
To unlock , press in special Child Resistant ( R ) tab in back of the actuator while turning the actuator to the right .
Press the actuator down repeatedly until product dispenses to prime spray pump .
Apply 3 or more sprays , not to exceed 10 , to head and shaft of penis 10 minutes before sexual intercourse , or use as directed by a doctor .
Recommended Initial Dosage : 3 sprays .
Rub Promescent into the skin of the penis until all of the product is absorbed .
Wash product off after intersourse .
After spraying , turn actuator to the left to lock .
Inactive Ingredients : Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Ceteareth - 20 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Citric Acid , Dimethicone , Farnesol , Fragrance , Glycerin , Hydrogenated Polyisobutene , Macadamia Ternifolia Seed Oil , Panthenol , Phenoxyethanol , Purified Water ( Aqua ) , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Sodium Hydroxide , Soy Lecithin , Stearoxytrimethylsilane , Stearyl Alcohol , Thymol , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) .
Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
