1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dextrose Injection is indicated as source of water and calories and may also be used as diluent for reconstitution of a powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug product packaged in a vial with a 20 mm closure .
Dextrose Injection is indicated as a source of calories and water and may also be used as diluent for reconstitution of a powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug product packaged in a vial with a 20 mm closure .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Only for intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration , dosing considerations and instructions for use .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • • Dextrose Injection is intended for intravenous use .
• • Peripheral administration of 5 % dextrose is generally acceptable , however , consider central vein when administering more than 5 % dextrose or with an osmolarity of at least 900 mOsm / L or when there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Do not administer Dextrose Injection simultaneously with blood products through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseudoagglutination or hemolysis .
• • To prevent air embolism , use a non - vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set , avoid multiple connections , do not connect flexible containers in series , do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates , and if administration is controlled by a pumping device , turn off pump before the container runs dry .
• • Prior to infusion , visually inspect the diluted dextrose solution for particulate matter .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
• • Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of parenteral solutions , where possible .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The choice of dextrose concentration , rate and volume depends on the age , weight , clinical and metabolic conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy .
Electrolyte supplementation may be indicated according to the clinical needs of the patient .
The administration rate should be governed , especially for premature infants with low birth weight , during the first few days of therapy , by the patient ’ s tolerance to dextrose .
Increase the infusion rate gradually as indicated by frequent monitoring of blood glucose concentrations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use To Open • • Do not remove from overpouch until ready to use .
• • Tear overwrap sharply down from the slit and remove solution container .
Small amounts of moisture may be found on the solution container from water permeating from inside the container .
The amount of permeated water is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
If larger amounts of water are found , the container should be checked for tears or leaks .
• • Visually inspect the container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Evaluate the following : • • If the outlet port protector is damaged , detached , or not present , discard container .
• • Check to ensure the solution is clear and there are no precipitates .
Discard if there is a color change and / or the appearance of precipitates , insoluble complexes or crystals .
• • Check for minute leaks by separately squeezing the inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard container .
• • Check that the vial adaptor cover is intact .
If the vial adaptor cover is not intact , discard product .
Preparation for Administration • • Instructions for Assembly and Reconstitution : ( Steps 1 - 3 for Assembly and steps 4 - 6 for Reconstitution ) • Step 1 : Remove vial cover and disinfect stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 2 : Peel off foil cover .
Inspect adaptor for moisture .
Discard if moisture is found .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 3 : Place vial upright and hold firmly .
Push adaptor down until vial snaps in place .
DO NOT TWIST .
Pull vial to ensure fully seated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 4 : Squeeze the bag and check vial .
Use only if vial is fully seated and dry .
Bend adaptor tube up and down to fully break and create a visible gap in the seal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 5 : For liquid drug vials proceed directly to Step 6 .
• For powdered drug vials : Hold bag with vial down .
Squeeze solution into vial until half full .
Shake to suspend drug in solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Step 6 : Hold bag with vial upside down .
Squeeze bag to force air into vial .
Release to drain suspended drug from vial .
Repeat steps 5 and 6 until vial is empty of drug and solution is thoroughly mixed .
Ensure drug is completely dissolved .
Do Not Remove Drug Vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Inspect the container to ensure precipitates have not formed during the mixing or addition of additives and that the solution has not changed color .
Discard the admixture if either are observed .
• • Insert transfer set into prepared solution container to be transferred .
Follow directions accompanying transfer set .
• • Remove port protector and attached administration set per its directions .
• • Transfer solution by gravity .
Ensure that vial is empty of drug and solution .
Repeat step 6 if drug and solution remain in vial .
• • Check for leaks .
To Add Medication • • Additives may be incompatible .
Complete information is not available .
Do not use additives known or determined to be incompatible .
• • Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the healthcare provider , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
• • When introducing additives , consult the instructions for use of the medication to be added and other relevant literature .
• • Before adding a substance or medication , verify that it is soluble and / or stable in Dextrose Injection and that the pH range of Dextrose Injection is appropriate .
Storage • • Use promptly after admixing or dilution ; do not store solutions containing additives .
• • Single - dose container .
• • Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Dextrose Injection , USP is a clear , sterile , non - pyrogenic solution of 5 grams of dextrose hydrous per 100 mL ( 0 . 05 grams / mL ) in 50 mL and 100 mL single - dose , flexible containers .
Injection : 5 % ( 0 . 05 grams / mL ) , 5 grams of dextrose hydrous per 100 mL in 50 mL and 100 mL single - dose , flexible containers ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • • Clinically significant hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Clinically significant hyperglycemia .
( 4 ) • • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hyperglycemia or Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State : Monitor blood glucose and administer insulin as needed .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Monitor for signs and symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Consider central vein when administering more than 5 % dextrose or with an osmolarity of ≥ 900 mOsm / L or when there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • • Hyponatremia : Avoid in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations ( 5 . 4 ) • • Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload : Avoid in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor daily fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance , as needed and especially during prolonged use ( 5 . 5 ) • • Refeeding Syndrome : Monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase nutrient intake .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hyperglycemia and Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State The use of dextrose infusions in patients with impaired glucose tolerance may worsen hyperglycemia .
Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient ’ s utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia , coma , and death .
Hyperglycemia is associated with an increase in serum osmolality , resulting in osmotic diuresis , dehydration and electrolyte losses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Patients with underlying CNS disease and renal impairment who receive dextrose infusions , may be at greater risk of developing hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state .
Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain levels within normal limits while administering Dextrose Injection .
Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during Dextrose Injection administration .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions including anaphylaxis , have been reported with Dextrose Injection [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction develop .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 3 Vein Damage and Thrombosis Peripheral administration of 5 % Dextrose Injection is generally acceptable , however , consider central vein when administering more than 5 % dextrose or with an osmolarity of ≥ 900 mOsm / L or when there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic solutions into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 4 Hyponatremia 5 % Dextrose Injection is an isotonic solution [ see Description , Table 1 ( 11 ) ] .
In the body , however , glucose containing fluids can become extremely physiologically hypotonic due to rapid glucose metabolization .
Monitoring of serum sodium is particularly important for hypotonic fluids .
Depending on the tonicity of the solution , the volume and rate of infusion , and depending on a patient ’ s underlying clinical condition and capability to metabolize glucose , intravenous administration of glucose can cause electrolyte disturbances , most importantly hypo - or hyperosmotic hyponatremia .
Monitor serum sodium to minimize the risk of hyponatremia .
The risk for hyponatremia is increased in pediatric patients , elderly patients , postoperative patients , those with psychogenic polydipsia , and in patients treated with medications that increase the risk of hyponatremia ( such as diuretics , certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications ) .
Close clinical monitoring may be warranted .
Acute hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
Patients at increased risk for developing complications of hyponatremia , such as hyponatremic encephalopathy include pediatric patients ; women , in particular , premenopausal women ; patients with hypoxemia ; and in patients with underlying central nervous system disease [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
Avoid Dextrose Injection in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Brain adaptations reducing risk of cerebral edema make the brain vulnerable to injury when chronic hyponatremia is too rapidly corrected , which is known as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) .
To avoid complications , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
High volume infusion must be used with close monitoring in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) , due to the risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia 5 . 5 Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload Electrolyte deficits , particularly in serum potassium and phosphate , may occur during prolonged use of concentrated dextrose solutions .
Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , the intravenous administration of dextrose solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations ( including hypoosmotic hyponatremia , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations in the administered solution .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations in the solution .
Avoid Dextrose Injection in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor fluid balance , blood electrolyte levels , concentration of glucose , acid - base balance , correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient or the rate of administration warrants such evaluation .
Additional monitoring is recommended for patients with water and electrolyte disturbances that could be aggravated by increased glucose , insulin administration and / or free water load .
Patients at increased risk for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy include pediatric patients ; elderly patients , women , in particular premenopausal women ; patients with hypoxemia ; and patients with underlying CNS disease [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 6 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients may result in refeeding syndrome , characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium , phosphorus , and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic .
Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop .
To prevent these complications , monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase nutrient intakes .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of dextrose injection were identified in clinical trials or post - marketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity reactions : anaphylaxis , pruritis , bronchospasm , cyanosis , angioedema , hypotension , pyrexia , chills , and rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Infusion Site Reactions : infusion site phlebitis , infusion site erythema , vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hyponatremia and hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Electrolyte imbalance , fluid overload and hypervolemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions are , hyperglycemia , hypersensitivity reactions , hyponatremia , infection both systemic and at the injection site , vein thrombosis or phlebitis , and electrolyte imbalance .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Baxter Healthcare at 1 - 866 - 888 - 2472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control , Vasopressin or Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance : Monitor blood glucose concentrations , fluid balance , serum electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control or Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance Dextrose Injection can affect glycemic control , vasopressin and fluid and / or electrolyte balance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor blood glucose concentrations , fluid balance , serum electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance when using Dextrose Injection in patients treated with other substances that affect glycemic control , vasopressin or fluid and / or electrolyte balance .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : Increased risk of hypoglycemia / hyperglycemia ; monitor serum glucose concentrations .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Appropriate administration of Dextrose Injection during pregnancy is not expected to cause adverse developmental outcomes , including congenital malformations .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with injectable dextrose solutions .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dextrose in human milk , the effects on a breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of Dextrose Injection to an infant during lactation ; therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Dextrose Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Dextrose Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety profile of Dextrose Injection in pediatric patients is similar to adults .
Neonates , especially premature infants with low birth weight , are at increased risk of developing hypo - or hyperglycemia and therefore need close monitoring during treatment with intravenous glucose infusions to ensure adequate glycemic control in order to avoid potential long - term adverse effects .
Closely monitor plasma electrolyte concentrations in pediatric patients who may have impaired ability to regulate fluids and electrolytes .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of Dextrose Injection may result in increased serum osmolality and risk of intracerebral hemorrhage .
Children ( including neonates and older children ) are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Dextrose Injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Elderly patients are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Dextrose is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
10 OVERDOSAGE An increased infusion rate of Dextrose Injection or administration of dextrose solutions can cause hyperglycemia , hyperosmolality , and adverse effects on water and electrolyte balance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Severe hyperglycemia and severe dilutional hyponatremia , and their complications , can be fatal .
Discontinue infusion , reduce dose and institute appropriate corrective measures such as administration of exogenous insulin .
Discontinue infusion and institute appropriate corrective measures in the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , with particular attention to CNS , respiratory and cardiovascular systems .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Dextrose Injection , 5 % USP is a clear , sterile , non - pyrogenic solution of Dextrose , USP in Water for Injection in a polyvinylchloride flexible plastic container for intravenous administration after admixture with a single dose powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug vial [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Flexible containers , designed to facilitate admixture , are available in 50 mL and 100 mL sizes .
See Table 1 for the content and characteristics of this solution .
The solution contains no bacteriostatic , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
The pH range is 4 . 0 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Table 1 .
Contents and Characteristics of Dextrose Injection 5 % , USP Strength Fill Volume Amount of Dextrose Hydrous per Container kcal [ 1 ] per Container mOsmol per liter Dextrose Injection 5 % , USP ( 0 . 05 grams / mL ) 100 mL Single Pack 5 grams 17 252 50 mL Single Pack 2 . 5 grams 8 . 5 252 [ 1 ] Caloric value calculated on the basis of 3 . 4 kcal / g of dextrose , hydrous Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
The molecular weight of dextrose ( D - glucose ) monohydrate is 198 . 17 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
Dextrose is derived from corn .
The MINI - BAG Plus Container is a standard diluent container with an integral drug vial adaptor .
It allows for drug admixture after connection to a single dose powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug vial having a 20 mm closure .
A breakaway seal in the tube between the vial adaptor and the container is broken to allow transfer of the diluent into the vial and reconstitution of the drug .
The Mini - Bag Plus product mechanically prohibits the transfer of contaminants into and out of the system during and after docking , minimizing environmental and personal exposure .
The reconstituted drug is then transferred from the vial into the container diluent and mixed to result in an admixture for delivery to the patient .
The VIAFLEX Plus plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 Plastic ) .
VIAFLEX Plus on the container indicates the presence of a drug additive in a drug vehicle .
The VIAFLEX Plus plastic container system utilizes the same container as the VIAFLEX plastic container system .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) , up to 5 parts per million .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dextrose oxidized to carbon dioxide and water , yielding energy .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Dextrose Injection 5 % , USP is a clear , sterile solutions of dextrose supplied in single - dose , flexible containers .
Product Description Code Size NDC Dextrose Injection 5 % , USP ( 0 . 05 grams / mL ) EZPB0040 50 mL 0338 - 9143 - 30 EZPB0041 100 mL 0338 - 9147 - 30 Do not remove container from the overwrap until intended for use .
Use the product immediately after mixing and the introduction of additives .
Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers , or home healthcare providers of the following risks of Dextrose Injection : • • Hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Electrolyte imbalance and fluid overload [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Manufactured by , Packed by , Distributed by : Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in Ireland CB - 30 - 02 - 662 Baxter , Mini - Bag Plus , and Viaflex are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] BREAK SEAL AND MIX BEFORE USE EZPB0041 NDC 0338 - 9147 - 30 100 mL 5 % Dextrose Injection USP MINI - BAG Plus Single Dose Container Each 100 mL contains 5 g Dextrose Hydrous USP Sterile See prescribing information Additive compatibility consult pharmacist For intravenous use Do not administer simultaneously with blood Store at Room Temperature ( 25 ° C ) Avoid Excessive Heat Rx Only Baxter Logo Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield IL 60015 USA Made in Ireland CB - 35 - 04 - 637 ( 1 ) Lot Exp Bar Code ( 01 ) 00303389147305 [ MULTIMEDIA ] BREAK SEAL AND MIX BEFORE USE EZPB0040 NDC 0338 - 9143 - 30 50 mL 5 % Dextrose Injection USP MINI - BAG PLUS SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH 50 ML CONTAINS 2 . 5 G DEXTROSE HYDROUS USP STERILE SEE PRESCRIBING INFORMATION ADDITIVE COMPATIBILITY CONSULT PHARMACIST FOR INTRAVENOUS USE DO NOT ADMINISTER SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH BLOOD STORE AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 25 ° C ) AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT RX ONLY BAXTER LOGO BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORPORATION DEERFIELD IL 60015 USA MADE IN IRELAND CB - 35 - 04 - 791 1 symbol Lot Exp Bar Code ( 01 ) 00303389143307 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
