1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is a super - high potency corticosteroid indicated for : Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is a corticosteroid indicated for : • • The relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older .
( 1 . 1 ) • • The treatment of moderate to severe plaque - type psoriasis in patients 16 years of age and older .
( 1 . 2 ) Limitations of Use • • Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
( 1 . 3 ) • • The total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week .
( 1 . 3 ) • • Avoid use if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Corticosteroid - Responsive Dermatoses Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age and older .
Treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks , and the total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week .
1 . 2 Moderate to Severe Plaque - Type Psoriasis Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is indicated for the topical treatment of moderate to severe plaque - type psoriasis .
Treatment beyond 4 consecutive weeks is not recommended .
Use in pediatric patients under 16 years of age is not recommended .
1 . 3 Limitations of Use Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
The total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week .
Avoid use if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely .
Wash hands after each application .
Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is a super - high potency topical corticosteroid ; therefore , treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks , and amounts greater than 50 grams per week should not be used .
In moderate to severe plaque - type psoriasis , clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) applied to 5 % to 10 % of body surface area can be used for up to 4 weeks .
The total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week .
When dosing for more than 2 weeks , any additional benefits of extending treatment should be weighed against the risk of HPA suppression .
Therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Treatment beyond 4 consecutive weeks is not recommended .
Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) should not be used with occlusive dressings .
• • Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely .
( 2 ) • • Treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks , and amounts greater than 50 grams per week should not be used .
( 2 ) • • In moderate to severe plaque - type psoriasis , clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) applied to 5 % to 10 % of body surface area can be used for up to 4 weeks .
The total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week .
When dosing for more than 2 weeks , any additional benefit of extending treatment should be weighed against the risk of HPA suppression .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 0 . 05 % .
Each gram of Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient ) contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate in a white to off - white cream base .
Cream : 0 . 05 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis doses as low as 2 grams per day .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate .
These reactions include : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypertrichosis , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae and miliaria .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Effects on the Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at doses as low as 2 grams per day .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
In a study including 12 subjects ages 18 years and older with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis involving at least 30 % body surface area ( BSA ) , adrenal suppression was identified in 3 out of 12 subjects ( 25 % ) following 1 week of treatment .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , hypertrichosis , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
Clobetasol propionate is not recommended in patients with acne vulgaris , rosacea or perioral dermatitis .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed with patch testing .
If irritation develops , clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • The most common adverse reaction is burning / stinging ( incidence 5 % ) ; common adverse reactions ( incidence < 2 % ) are pruritis , irritation , erythema , folliculitis , cracking and fissuring of the skin , numbness of the fingers , tenderness in the elbow , skin atrophy , and telangiectasia .
( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In controlled trials with clobetasol propionate formulations , the following adverse reactions have been reported : burning / stinging , pruritis , irritation , erythema , folliculitis , cracking and fissuring of the skin , numbness of the fingers , tenderness in the elbow , skin atrophy , and telangiectasia .
The incidence of local adverse reactions reported in the trials with clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) was less than 2 % of patients treated with the exception of burning / stinging which occurred in 5 % of treated patients .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Clobetasol propionate has not been tested for teratogenicity by this route ; however , it is absorbed percutaneously , and when administered subcutaneously it was a significant teratogen in both the rabbit and mouse .
Clobetasol propionate has greater teratogenic potential than steroids that are less potent .
Teratogenicity studies in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and teratogenicity at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
These doses are approximately 0 . 33 and 0 . 01 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In rabbits , clobetasol propionate was teratogenic at doses of 3 and 10 mcg / kg .
These doses are approximately 0 . 001 and 0 . 003 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) in pediatric patients have not been established and its use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
In a study including 12 subjects ages 18 years and older with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis involving at least 30 % body surface area ( BSA ) , adrenal suppression was identified in 3 out of 12 subjects ( 25 % ) following 1 week of treatment .
Four - week HPA axis suppression studies with clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) in pediatric subjects have not been conducted .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
The use of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) for 4 consecutive weeks has not been studied in pediatric patients under 16 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient ) contains the active compound clobetasol propionate , a synthetic corticosteroid , for topical use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Chemically , clobetasol propionate is ( 11β , 16β ) - 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 - methyl - 17 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) - pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate has the molecular formula C25H32ClFO5 and a molecular weight of 467 .
It is a white to cream - colored crystalline powder insoluble in water .
Each gram of Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient ) contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate in a white to off - white cream base composed of cetostearyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , propylene glycol , ceteth 20 , dimethicone 360 , purified water , citric acid , sodium citrate , methylparaben and propylparaben .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Like other topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is in the super - high range of potency as demonstrated in a vasoconstrictor study in healthy subjects when compared with other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate .
Mutagenesis Clobetasol propionate was nonmutagenic in three different test systems : the Ames test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . Coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
Impairment of Fertility Studies in the rat following oral administration at dosage levels up to 50 mg / kg per day revealed no significant effect on the males .
The females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a controlled clinical trial involving patients with moderate to severe plaque - type psoriasis , clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) was applied to 5 % to 10 % of body surface area .
In this trial , there were no clobetasol - treated patients with clinically significant decreases in morning cortisol levels after 4 weeks of treatment ; however , morning cortisol levels may not identify patients with adrenal dysfunction .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient ) , is a white to off - white cream , supplied as follows : 15 gram tube - NDC 62559 - 980 - 15 30 gram tube - NDC 62559 - 980 - 30 60 gram tube - NDC 62559 - 980 - 60 Storage and Handling Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient ) should not be refrigerated .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients using topical corticosteroids of the following information and instructions : • • Clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• • Use as directed .
Do not use clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
Do not use longer than the prescribed time period .
• • Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) unless directed by the physician .
• • The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered , or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• • Wash hands after applying the medication .
• • Report any signs of local or systemic adverse reactions to the physician .
• • Inform their physicians that they are using clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) if surgery is contemplated .
If you go to another doctor for illness , injury or surgery , tell the doctor you are using clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) .
• • Do not use clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) on the face , underarms or groin areas .
• • As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
• • Use no more than 50 grams per week of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 05 % ( emollient ) .
• • Store between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ( 15 ° C and 30 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Manufactured by : ANI Pharmaceuticals Canada , Inc .
Oakville , ON L6H 1M5 Canada Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] N3015 Rev 09 / 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Clobetasol Propionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emollient ) NDC 62559 - 980 - 15 Rx only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
