Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / w ( without propellant ) Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of this carton ) Warnings For external use only . For use by men only .
Extremely Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use if • • you are a woman • • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ( Foam ) is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• • you have no family history of hair loss • • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • • do not apply on other parts of the body • • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• • some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • • your hands or feet swell • • scalp irritation or redness occurs • • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area • • massage into scalp with fingers , then wash hands well • • see enclosed leaflet for complete directions on how to use • • using more or more often will not improve results • • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again Other information • • hair growth has been shown in a clinical study of men ( mostly white ) aged 18 - 49 years who used it for 4 months • • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • • before use , read all information on package and enclosed leaflet • • keep the package .
It contains important information .
• • store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients butane , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , dehydrated alcohol , isobutane , lactic acid , polysorbate 60 , propane , purified water , stearyl alcohol Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer Information IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ( Foam ) Hair Regrowth Treatment UNSCENTED For Men • Reactivates Hair Follicles To Stimulate Regrowth • Easy - To - Use Foam • Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair Not For Use By Women SAVE THIS LEAFLET FOR FUTURE REFERENCE It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
Please read this leaflet carefully .
It will help you understand how to use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % and what to expect from its use .
If you have any questions after reading this leaflet , or anytime while using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , you should ask your healthcare professional or call us at 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
What is Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is a white foam containing 5 % minoxidil for use only on the scalp to help regrow hair in men .
Who may use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is for use only by men .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % may be appropriate for you if you are a male at least 18 years old and experiencing gradually thinning hair or gradual hair loss on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , as shown below ) .
It is not intended for frontal baldness or a receding hairline .
The common inherited thinning or hair loss process begins slowly and may become noticeable only after years of gradual loss .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is for men with hair loss or thinning hair that begins on the vertex of the scalp .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is more likely to regrow hair in men with hair loss in the range shown below .
If men have more hair loss than shown , Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % may not work .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Many of those experiencing hair loss have other family members with gradually thinning hair or hair loss .
If you have no family history of gradually thinning hair or of gradual hair loss , or your hair loss is patchy , see your doctor .
Who should NOT use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
• • Women should not use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % .
• • Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % should not be used on babies or children under 18 years old .
• • Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % will not prevent or improve hair loss which may occur with the use of some prescription and non - prescription medications , certain severe nutritional problems ( very low body iron ; too much vitamin A intake ) , low thyroid states ( hypothyroidism ) , chemotherapy , or diseases which cause scarring of the scalp .
Also , Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % will not improve hair loss due to : • • damage from the use of hair care products which cause scarring or deep burns of the scalp .
• • hair grooming methods such as cornrowing or ponytails which require pulling the hair tightly back from the scalp .
Do not use if you are not sure of the reason for your hair loss .
Will Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % work for me ?
The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
Not everyone will respond to Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % .
The response to Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % cannot be predicted .
It is unlikely anyone will be able to grow back all their hair .
However , to see your best results with Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % make sure you get the medicine directly to the scalp and apply it twice a day , every day .
You may get better results if you have been losing your hair for a short period of time or have little hair loss .
However , for some men Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % may not work .
How soon can I expect results from using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
Since normal hair usually grows only 1 / 2 to 1 inch per month , hair regrowth with Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % also takes time .
Results may be seen as early as 2 months with twice daily use .
For some men , it may take at least 4 months for results to be seen .
If you do not see any results after 4 months , stop using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % and seek the advice of your physician .
When you first begin to use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , your hair loss may increase temporarily for up to 2 weeks .
This is likely a sign that you are getting rid of old hairs in order to regrow more new hairs .
This temporary increase in hair loss is expected and is part of the process for how Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % regrows hair .
Remember , this increased hair loss is temporary .
However , if it continues after two weeks , see your physician .
If Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is working , what will the hair look like ?
At first , hair growth is usually soft , downy , colorless hairs ( like peach fuzz ) .
After further use , the new hairs should be the same color and thickness as the other hairs on your scalp .
How long do I need to use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
If you experience hair regrowth , continued use of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is necessary or the hair loss will begin again .
What happens if I completely stop using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
Continuous use of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is needed to maintain hair regrowth .
If you stop using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , you will lose your newly regrown hair in 3 to 4 months .
How do I use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
For best results , apply half a capful 2 times a day directly to the scalp in the hair loss area .
Using more than the recommended amount will not improve results .
Each can should last one month , if used as directed .
Never take this product by mouth or apply to other parts of the body .
When do I use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
Apply Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % once in the morning and once at night .
Allow the nighttime application to dry completely before going to bed .
Each can should last one month , if used as directed .
What if I miss a dose or forget to use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
If you miss one or two daily doses of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , just continue with your next dose .
You should not make up for missed doses .
Can I use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % more than twice a day ?
Will it work faster , better ?
No .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % will not work faster or better if used more than two times a day .
More frequent use or larger doses have not been shown to speed up hair growth and may increase your chance of side effects .
What kind of shampoo should I use with Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
If you wash your scalp before applying Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , use a mild shampoo .
Can I use hair sprays , mousses , conditioners , gels , etc . ?
Yes .
Hair sprays , spritz , or styling aids may be used on your hair while using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % .
For best results , Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % should be allowed to soak into the scalp before using any styling products .
Try to develop a good routine of applying Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % first , and then applying styling products and style as usual .
Keep in mind that your best results will be seen with proper application .
Can I have my hair colored or permed or use hair relaxers while using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
Yes .
We have no evidence that coloring or perming your hair or that the use of relaxers change the effect of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % .
However , because the use of a permanent wave and hair color can cause scalp irritation on certain people , we recommend the following precautions : • 1 .
To avoid possible scalp irritation , you should make sure all of the Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % has been washed off the hair and scalp before using color or perm chemicals .
• 2 .
For best results , do not apply Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % on the same day that you use a chemical treatment on your hair .
• 3 .
Do not use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % for 24 hours after using any chemicals to make sure your scalp has not been irritated by the perm or color treatment .
If no irritation occurs , continue use of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % as usual .
• 4 .
Simply restart your normal Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % routine .
There is no need to use more Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % to make up for missed applications .
Missing one day of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % will not affect your hair regrowth results .
Can I apply Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % and wash my hair an hour later ?
No .
For Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % to work best , you should allow it to stay on the scalp for about 4 hours before washing .
Using the product : • • Please familiarize yourself with the instructions below in order to help make your product application a success .
• • This product should be used TWICE DAILY , EVERY DAY .
• • To be effective , it is important to apply the product DIRECTLY TO YOUR SCALP and NOT TO YOUR HAIR so that it can easily get to your hair follicles to help regrow your hair .
• • There is no need to shampoo your hair before using the product .
If you wish to shampoo your hair before applying Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , towel dry your hair so that the skin on the scalp is dry .
1 : PREP HANDS WITH COLD WATER Rinse your fingers in cold water and dry them .
Note : Foam will melt on contact with warm surfaces .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 : OPEN CHILD RESISTANT CAP Be sure to align arrow on the cap with arrow on white ring .
Tilt cap back and pull off .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 : DISPENSE VERTICALLY ONTO A COLD SURFACE Hold the can straight upside down .
If you hold the can at an angle , foam may not dispense properly .
Press nozzle to dispense half a capful of foam onto cold surface ( e . g . dish , or cold hands ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 : APPLY TO SCALP , NOT HAIR Part your hair to expose hair loss area .
Massage foam into scalp , not hair .
Repeat until all hair loss areas have been covered .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 : CLOSE CAP AND WASH HANDS Snap cap back into place .
Be sure arrows do not line up , so cap remains child resistant .
Wash hands and any surface thoroughly after use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings : For external use only For use by men only Extremely Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use if • • you are a woman • • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the other side of this leaflet or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• • you have no family history of hair loss • • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease .
When using this product • • do not apply on other parts of the body • • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• • some people may experience changes in hair color and / or texture • • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • • your hands or feet swell • • scalp irritation or redness occurs • • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months Not for use by women .
May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
What are the most common side effects with Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ?
The most common side effects are itching and skin irritation of the treated area of the scalp .
If scalp irritation continues , stop use and see a doctor .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % contains alcohol , which will cause burning or irritation of the eyes .
If Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % accidentally gets into eyes , rinse with large amounts of cool tap water .
Can Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % produce unwanted hair growth ?
Unwanted hair growth on the face and other parts of the body has been reported in women .
But it is rare and reversible .
If you develop unwanted hair , stop using Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % .
Over time , the unwanted hair growth caused by Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % will go away .
You can take the following steps to decrease the chances of unwanted hair growth : • 1 ) limit the application of Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % only to the scalp ; • 2 ) if you use your hands to apply Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % , wash your hands well immediately afterwards .
Can I use Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % for baldness or hair loss in babies or children ?
No .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % must not be used to treat baldness or hair loss in babies and children .
If you have any other questions , ask your healthcare professional or call us at 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperature above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Save this leaflet for future reference .
To Open : • 1 .
Be sure to align arrow on the cap with the arrow on the white ring .
• 2 .
Tilt cap back and pull • [ MULTIMEDIA ] To Close : • 1 .
Place CAP on container and snap into place .
• 2 .
Be sure arrows DO NOT line up so CAP remains child resistant .
Made in Israel Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 Rev 07 - 21 : 29400 00 J4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel KIRKLAND Signature COMPARE TO MEN ’ S ROGAINE ® active ingredient MINOXIDIL Topical Aerosol , 5 % ( Foam ) Hair Regrowth Treatment For Men EASY - TO - USE FOAM 6 MONTH SUPPLY Reactivates Hair Follicles To Stimulate Regrowth Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair # 1 Dermatologist Recommended Active Ingredient UNSCENTED 6 – 60 g ( 2 . 11 OZ ) CANS TOTAL 360 g ( 12 . 66 OZ ) NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
