DESCRIPTION Bisoprolol fumarate is a synthetic , beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoceptor blocking agent .
The chemical name for bisoprolol fumarate is ( ± ) - 1 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 1 - Methylethoxy ) ethoxy ] methyl ] - phenoxy ] - 3 - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] - 2 - propanol ( E ) - 2 - butenedioate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
It possesses an asymmetric carbon atom in its structure and is provided as a racemic mixture .
The S ( - ) enantiomer is responsible for most of the beta - blocking activity .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( C18H31NO4 ) 2 • C4H4O4 M . W . 766 . 98 It is a white crystalline powder which is approximately equally hydrophilic and lipophilic , and is readily soluble in water , methanol , ethanol , and chloroform .
Bisoprolol fumarate is available as 5 and 10 mg tablets for oral administration .
Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized corn starch NF , titanium dioxide , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , and polysorbate 80 .
The 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Bisoprolol is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoceptor blocking agent without significant membrane stabilizing activity or intrinsic sympathomimetic activity in its therapeutic dosage range .
Cardioselectivity is not absolute , however , and at higher doses ( ≥ 20 mg ) bisoprolol fumarate also inhibits beta2 - adrenoceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature ; to retain selectivity it is therefore important to use the lowest effective dose .
Pharmacokinetics and MetabolismThe absolute bioavailability after a 10 mg oral dose of bisoprolol fumarate is about 80 % .
Absorption is not affected by the presence of food .
The first pass metabolism of bisoprolol fumarate is about 20 % .
Binding to serum proteins is approximately 30 % .
Peak plasma concentrations occur within 2 to 4 hours of dosing with 5 to 20 mg , and mean peak values range from 16 ng / mL at 5 mg to 70 ng / mL at 20 mg .
Once daily dosing with bisoprolol fumarate results in less than twofold intersubject variation in peak plasma levels .
The plasma elimination half - life is 9 to 12 hours and is slightly longer in elderly patients , in part because of decreased renal function in that population .
Steady state is attained within 5 days of once daily dosing .
In both young and elderly populations , plasma accumulation is low ; the accumulation factor ranges from 1 . 1 to 1 . 3 , and is what would be expected from the first order kinetics and once daily dosing .
Plasma concentrations are proportional to the administered dose in the range of 5 to 20 mg .
Pharmacokinetic characteristics of the two enantiomers are similar .
Bisoprolol fumarate is eliminated equally by renal and non - renal pathways with about 50 % of the dose appearing unchanged in the urine and the remainder appearing in the form of inactive metabolites .
In humans , the known metabolites are labile or have no known pharmacologic activity .
Less than 2 % of the dose is excreted in the feces .
Bisoprolol fumarate is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 II D6 ( debrisoquin hydroxylase ) .
In subjects with creatinine clearance less than 40 mL / min , the plasma half - life is increased approximately threefold compared to healthy subjects .
In patients with cirrhosis of the liver , the elimination of bisoprolol fumarate is more variable in rate and significantly slower than that in healthy subjects , with plasma half - life ranging from 8 . 3 to 21 . 7 hours .
PharmacodynamicsThe most prominent effect of bisoprolol is the negative chronotropic effect , resulting in a reduction in resting and exercise heart rate .
There is a fall in resting and exercise cardiac output with little observed change in stroke volume , and only a small increase in right atrial pressure , or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure at rest or during exercise .
Findings in short - term clinical hemodynamics studies with bisoprolol are similar to those observed with other beta - blocking agents .
The mechanism of action of its antihypertensive effects has not been completely established .
Factors which may be involved include : • Decreased cardiac output , • Inhibition of renin release by the kidneys , • Diminution of tonic sympathetic outflow from the vasomotor centers in the brain .
In normal volunteers , bisoprolol therapy resulted in a reduction of exercise - and isoproterenol - induced tachycardia .
The maximal effect occurred within 1 to 4 hours post - dosing .
Effects persisted for 24 hours at doses equal to or greater than 5 mg .
Electrophysiology studies in man have demonstrated that bisoprolol significantly decreases heart rate , increases sinus node recovery time , prolongs AV node refractory periods , and , with rapid atrial stimulation , prolongs AV nodal conduction .
Beta1 - selectivity of bisoprolol has been demonstrated in both animal and human studies .
No effects at therapeutic doses on beta2 - adrenoceptor density have been observed .
Pulmonary function studies have been conducted in healthy volunteers , asthmatics , and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
Doses of bisoprolol fumarate ranged from 5 to 60 mg , atenolol from 50 to 200 mg , metoprolol from 100 to 200 mg , and propranolol from 40 to 80 mg .
In some studies , slight , asymptomatic increases in airways resistance ( AWR ) and decreases in forced expiratory volume ( FEV1 ) were observed with doses of bisoprolol fumarate 20 mg and higher , similar to the small increases in AWR also noted with the other cardioselective beta - blockers .
The changes induced by beta - blockade with all agents were reversed by bronchodilator therapy .
Bisoprolol had minimal effect on serum lipids during antihypertensive studies .
In U . S . placebo - controlled trials , changes in total cholesterol averaged + 0 . 8 % for bisoprolol fumarate - treated patients , and + 0 . 7 % for placebo .
Changes in triglycerides averaged + 19 % for bisoprolol fumarate - treated patients , and + 17 % for placebo .
Bisoprolol fumarate has also been given concomitantly with thiazide diuretics .
Even very low doses of hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 mg ) were found to be additive with bisoprolol fumarate in lowering blood pressure in patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension .
CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized double - blind placebo - controlled trials conducted in the U . S . , reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate 24 hours after dosing in patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension are shown below .
In both studies , mean systolic / diastolic blood pressures at baseline were approximately 150 / 100 mmHg , and mean heart rate was 76 bpm .
Drug effect is calculated by subtracting the placebo effect from the overall change in blood pressure and heart rate .
Sitting Systolic / Diastolic Pressure ( BP ) and Heart Rate ( HR ) Mean Decrease ( Δ ) After 3 to 4 WeeksStudy A Bisoprolol Fumarate Placebo 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg n = 61 61 61 61 Total ΔBP ( mmHg ) 5 . 4 / 3 . 2 10 . 4 / 8 . 0 11 . 2 / 10 . 9 12 . 8 / 11 . 9 Drug Effecta1 - 5 . 0 / 4 . 8 5 . 8 / 7 . 7 7 . 4 / 8 . 7 Total ΔHR ( bpm ) 0 . 5 7 . 2 8 . 7 11 . 3 Drug Effecta1 - 6 . 7 8 . 2 10 . 8 Study B Bisoprolol Fumarate Placebo 2 . 5 mg 10 mg n = 56 59 62 Total ΔBP ( mmHg ) 3 . 0 / 3 . 7 7 . 6 / 8 . 1 13 . 5 / 11 . 2 Drug Effecta1 - 4 . 6 / 4 . 4 10 . 5 / 7 . 5 Total ΔHR ( bpm ) 1 . 6 3 . 8 10 . 7 Drug Effecta1 - 2 . 2 9 . 1 Blood pressure responses were seen within one week of treatment and changed little thereafter .
They were sustained for 12 weeks and for over a year in studies of longer duration .
Blood pressure returned to baseline when bisoprolol was tapered over two weeks in a long - term study .
Overall , significantly greater blood pressure reductions were observed on bisoprolol than on placebo regardless of race , age , or gender .
There were no significant differences in response between black and nonblack patients .
1 a Observed total change from baseline minus placebo .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bisoprolol is indicated in the management of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Bisoprolol is contraindicated in patients with cardiogenic shock , overt cardiac failure , second or third degree AV block , and marked sinus bradycardia .
WARNINGS Cardiac FailureSympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in the setting of congestive heart failure , and beta - blockade may result in further depression of myocardial contractility and precipitate more severe failure .
In general , beta - blocking agents should be avoided in patients with overt congestive failure .
However , in some patients with compensated cardiac failure it may be necessary to utilize them .
In such a situation , they must be used cautiously .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac FailureContinued depression of the myocardium with beta - blockers can , in some patients , precipitate cardiac failure .
At the first signs or symptoms of heart failure , discontinuation of bisoprolol should be considered .
In some cases , beta - blocker therapy can be continued while heart failure is treated with other drugs .
Abrupt Cessation of TherapyExacerbation of angina pectoris , and , in some instances , myocardial infarction or ventricular arrhythmia , have been observed in patients with coronary artery disease following abrupt cessation of therapy with beta - blockers .
Such patients should , therefore , be cautioned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ’ s advice .
Even in patients without overt coronary artery disease , it may be advisable to taper therapy with bisoprolol over approximately one week with the patient under careful observation .
If withdrawal symptoms occur , bisoprolol therapy should be reinstituted , at least temporarily .
Peripheral Vascular DiseaseBeta - blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
Caution should be exercised in such individuals .
Bronchospastic DiseasePATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Because of its relative beta1 - selectivity , however , bisoprolol may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 - selectivity is not absolute , the lowest possible dose of bisoprolol should be used , with therapy starting at 2 . 5 mg .
A beta2 agonist ( bronchodilator ) should be made available .
Anesthesia and Major SurgeryIf bisoprolol treatment is to be continued perioperatively , particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents which depress myocardial function , such as ether , cyclopropane , and trichloroethylene , are used .
See OVERDOSAGE for information on treatment of bradycardia and hypotension .
Diabetes and HypoglycemiaBeta - blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia , particularly tachycardia .
Nonselective beta - blockers may potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels .
Because of its beta1 - selectivity , this is less likely with bisoprolol .
However , patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia , or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents , should be cautioned about these possibilities and bisoprolol should be used with caution .
ThyrotoxicosisBeta - adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism , such as tachycardia .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm .
PRECAUTIONS Impaired Renal or Hepatic FunctionUse caution in adjusting the dose of bisoprolol in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug InteractionsBisoprolol should not be combined with other beta - blocking agents .
Patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine or guanethidine , should be closely monitored , because the added beta - adrenergic blocking action of bisoprolol may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity .
In patients receiving concurrent therapy with clonidine , if therapy is to be discontinued , it is suggested that bisoprolol be discontinued for several days before the withdrawal of clonidine .
Bisoprolol should be used with care when myocardial depressants or inhibitors of AV conduction , such as certain calcium antagonists [ particularly of the phenylalkylamine ( verapamil ) and benzothiazepine ( diltiazem ) classes ] , or antiarrhythmic agents , such as disopyramide , are used concurrently .
Concurrent use of rifampin increases the metabolic clearance of bisoprolol , resulting in a shortened elimination half - life of bisoprolol .
However , initial dose modification is generally not necessary .
Pharmacokinetic studies document no clinically relevant interactions with other agents given concomitantly , including thiazide diuretics , digoxin and cimetidine .
There was no effect of bisoprolol on prothrombin time in patients on stable doses of warfarin .
Risk of Anaphylactic ReactionWhile taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions .
Information for PatientsPatients , especially those with coronary artery disease , should be warned about discontinuing use of bisoprolol without a physician ’ s supervision .
Patients should also be advised to consult a physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs , or if they develop signs or symptoms of congestive heart failure or excessive bradycardia .
Patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia , or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents , should be cautioned that beta - blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia , particularly tachycardia , and bisoprolol furmarate should be used with caution .
Patients should know how they react to this medicine before they operate automobiles and machinery or engage in other tasks requiring alertness .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term studies were conducted with oral bisoprolol fumarate administered in the feed of mice ( 20 and 24 months ) and rats ( 26 months ) .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was seen in mice dosed up to 250 mg / kg / day or rats dosed up to 125 mg / kg / day .
On a body weight basis , these doses are 625 and 312 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 20 mg , ( or 0 . 4 mg / kg / day based on a 50 kg individual ) ; on a body surface area basis , these doses are 59 times ( mice ) and 64 times ( rats ) the MRHD .
The mutagenic potential of bisoprolol was evaluated in the microbial mutagenicity ( Ames ) test , the point mutation and chromosome aberration assays in Chinese hamster V79 cells , the unscheduled DNA synthesis test , the micronucleus test in mice , and the cytogenetics assay in rats .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential in these in vitro and in vivo assays .
Reproduction studies in rats did not show any impairment of fertility at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day of bisoprolol fumarate , or 375 and 77 times the MRHD on the basis of body weight and body surface area , respectively .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy category CIn rats , bisoprolol fumarate was not teratogenic at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day which is 375 and 77 times the MRHD on the basis of body weight and body surface area , respectively .
Bisoprolol fumarate was fetotoxic ( increased late resorptions ) at 50 mg / kg / day and maternotoxic ( decreased food intake and body weight gain ) at 150 mg / kg / day .
The fetotoxicity in rats occurred at 125 times the MRHD on a body weight basis and 26 times the MRHD on the basis of body surface area .
The maternotoxicity occurred at 375 times the MRHD on a body weight basis and 77 times the MRHD on the basis of body surface area .
In rabbits , bisoprolol fumarate was not teratogenic at doses up to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day , which is 31 and 12 times the MRHD based on body weight and body surface area , respectively , but was embryolethal ( increased early resorptions ) at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Bisoprolol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing MothersSmall amounts of bisoprolol fumarate ( less than 2 % of the dose ) have been detected in the milk of lactating rats .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk caution should be exercised when bisoprolol is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric UseBisoprolol has been used in elderly patients with hypertension .
Response rates and mean decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were similar to the decreases in younger patients in the U . S . clinical studies .
Although no dose response study was conducted in elderly patients , there was a tendency for older patients to be maintained on higher doses of bisoprolol fumarate .
Observed reductions in heart rate were slightly greater in the elderly than in the young and tended to increase with increasing dose .
In general , no disparity in adverse experience reports or dropouts for safety reasons was observed between older and younger patients .
Dose adjustment based on age is not necessary .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Safety data are available in more than 30 , 000 patients or volunteers .
Frequency estimates and rates of withdrawal of therapy for adverse events were derived from two U . S . placebo - controlled studies .
In Study A , doses of 5 , 10 and 20 mg bisoprolol fumarate were administered for 4 weeks .
In Study B , doses of 2 . 5 , 10 and 40 mg of bisoprolol fumarate were administered for 12 weeks .
A total of 273 patients were treated with 5 to 20 mg of bisoprolol fumarate ; 132 received placebo .
Withdrawal of therapy for adverse events was 3 . 3 % for patients receiving bisoprolol fumarate and 6 . 8 % for patients on placebo .
Withdrawals were less than 1 % for either bradycardia or fatigue / lack of energy .
The following table presents adverse experiences , whether or not considered drug related , reported in at least 1 % of patients in these studies , for all patients studied in placebo controlled clinical trials ( 2 . 5 to 40 mg ) , as well as for a subgroup that was treated with doses within the recommended dosage range ( 5 to 20 mg ) .
Of the adverse events listed in the table , bradycardia , diarrhea , asthenia , fatigue and sinusitis appear to be dose related .
Body System / Adverse Experience All Adverse Experiences ( % a2 ) Bisoprolol Fumarate Placebo 5 to 20 mg 2 . 5 to 40 mg ( n = 132 ) ( n = 273 ) ( n = 404 ) % % % Skin increased sweating 1 . 5 0 . 7 1 . 0 Musculoskeletal arthralgia 2 . 3 2 . 2 2 . 7 Central Nervous System dizziness 3 . 8 2 . 9 3 . 5 headache 11 . 4 8 . 8 10 . 9 hypoaesthesia 0 . 8 1 . 1 1 . 5 Autonomic Nervous System dry mouth 1 . 5 0 . 7 1 . 3 Heart Rate / Rhythm bradycardia 0 0 . 4 0 . 5 Psychiatric vivid dreams 0 0 0 insomnia 2 . 3 1 . 5 2 . 5 depression 0 . 8 0 0 . 2 Gastrointestinal diarrhea 1 . 5 2 . 6 3 . 5 nausea 1 . 5 1 . 5 2 . 2 vomiting 0 1 . 1 1 . 5 Respiratory bronchospasm 0 0 0 cough 4 . 5 2 . 6 2 . 5 dyspnea 0 . 8 1 . 1 1 . 5 pharyngitis 2 . 3 2 . 2 2 . 2 rhinitis 3 . 0 2 . 9 4 . 0 sinusitis 1 . 5 2 . 2 2 . 2 URI 3 . 8 4 . 8 5 . 0 Body as a Whole asthenia 0 0 . 4 1 . 5 chest pain 0 . 8 1 . 1 1 . 5 fatigue 1 . 5 6 . 6 8 . 2 edema ( peripheral ) 3 . 8 3 . 7 3 . 0 The following is a comprehensive list of adverse experiences reported with bisoprolol in worldwide studies , or in postmarketing experience ( in italics ) : Central Nervous System : Dizziness , unsteadiness , vertigo , syncope , headache , paresthesia , hypoaesthesia , hyperesthesia , somnolence , sleep disturbances , anxiety / restlessness , decreased concentration / memory .
Autonomic Nervous System : Dry mouth .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , palpitations and other rhythm disturbances , cold extremities , claudication , hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , chest pain , congestive heart failure , dyspnea on exertion .
Psychiatric : Vivid dreams , insomnia , depression .
Gastrointestinal : Gastric / epigastric / abdominal pain , gastritis , dyspepsia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation , peptic ulcer .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle / joint pain , arthralgia , back / neck pain , muscle cramps , twitching / tremor .
Skin : Rash , acne , eczema , psoriasis , skin irritation , pruritus , flushing , sweating , alopecia , dermatitis , angioedema , exfoliative dermatitis , cutaneous vasculitis .
Special Senses : Visual disturbances , ocular pain / pressure , abnormal lacrimation , tinnitus , decreased hearing , earache , taste abnormalities .
Metabolic : Gout .
Respiratory : Asthma / bronchospasm , bronchitis , coughing , dyspnea , pharyngitis , rhinitis , sinusitis , URI .
Genitourinary : Decreased libido / impotence , Peyronie ’ s disease , cystitis , renal colic , polyuria .
Hematologic : Purpura .
General : Fatigue , asthenia , chest pain , malaise , edema , weight gain , angioedema .
In addition a variety of adverse effects have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse effects of bisoprolol .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia , hallucinations , an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation to time and place , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium .
Allergic : Fever , combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , respiratory distress .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis .
Miscellaneous : The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with bisoprolol during investigational use or extensive foreign marketing experience .
LABORATORY ABNORMALITIES : In clinical trials , the most frequently reported laboratory change was an increase in serum triglycerides , but this was not a consistent finding .
Sporadic liver test abnormalities have been reported .
In the U . S . controlled trials experience with bisoprolol treatment for 4 to 12 weeks , the incidence of concomitant elevations in SGOT and SGPT from 1 to 2 times normal was 3 . 9 % , compared to 2 . 5 % for placebo .
No patient had concomitant elevations greater than twice normal .
In the long - term , uncontrolled experience with bisoprolol treatment for 6 to 18 months , the incidence of one or more concomitant elevations in SGOT and SGPT from 1 to 2 times normal was 6 . 2 % .
The incidence of multiple occurrences was 1 . 9 % .
For concomitant elevations in SGOT and SGPT of greater than twice normal , the incidence was 1 . 5 % .
The incidence of multiple occurrences was 0 . 3 % .
In many cases these elevations were attributed to underlying disorders , or resolved during continued treatment with bisoprolol .
Other laboratory changes included small increases in uric acid , creatinine , BUN , serum potassium , glucose , and phosphorus and decreases in WBC and platelets .
These were generally not of clinical importance and rarely resulted in discontinuation of bisoprolol .
As with other beta - blockers , ANA conversions have also been reported on bisoprolol .
About 15 % of patients in long - term studies converted to a positive titer , although about one - third of these patients subsequently reconverted to a negative titer while on continued therapy .
2 a percentage of patients with event OVERDOSAGE The most common signs expected with overdosage of a beta - blocker are bradycardia , hypotension , congestive heart failure , bronchospasm , and hypoglycemia .
To date , a few cases of overdose ( maximum : 2000 mg ) with bisoprolol fumarate have been reported .
Bradycardia and / or hypotension were noted .
Sympathomimetic agents were given in some cases , and all patients recovered .
In general , if overdose occurs , bisoprolol therapy should be stopped and supportive and symptomatic treatment should be provided .
Limited data suggest that bisoprolol is not dialyzable .
Based on the expected pharmacologic actions and recommendations for other beta - blockers , the following general measures should be considered when clinically warranted : BradycardiaAdminister IV atropine .
If the response is inadequate , isoproterenol or another agent with positive chronotropic properties may be given cautiously .
Under some circumstances , transvenous pacemaker insertion may be necessary .
HypotensionIV fluids and vasopressors should be administered .
Intravenous glucagon may be useful .
Heart Block ( second or third degree ) Patients should be carefully monitored and treated with isoproterenol infusion or transvenous cardiac pacemaker insertion , as appropriate .
Congestive Heart FailureInitiate conventional therapy ( i . e . , digitalis , diuretics , inotropic agents , vasodilating agents ) .
BronchospasmAdminister bronchodilator therapy such as isoproterenol and / or aminophylline .
HypoglycemiaAdminister IV glucose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of bisoprolol fumarate must be individualized to the needs of the patient .
The usual starting dose is 5 mg once daily .
In some patients , 2 . 5 mg may be an appropriate starting dose ( see Bronchospastic Disease in WARNINGS ) .
If the antihypertensive effect of 5 mg is inadequate , the dose may be increased to 10 mg and then , if necessary , to 20 mg once daily .
Patients with Renal or Hepatic ImpairmentIn patients with hepatic impairment ( hepatitis or cirrhosis ) or renal dysfunction ( creatinine clearance less than 40 mL / min ) , the initial daily dose should be 2 . 5 mg and caution should be used in dose - titration .
Since limited data suggest that bisoprolol fumarate is not dialyzable , drug replacement is not necessary in patients undergoing dialysis .
Geriatric PatientsIt is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly , unless there is also significant renal or hepatic dysfunction ( see above and Geriatric Use in PRECAUTIONS ) .
ChildrenThere is no pediatric experience with bisoprolol .
HOW SUPPLIED Bisoprolol fumarate is supplied as 5 mg and 10 mg tablets .
The 5 mg tablet is a pink , round , film - coated , convex tablet debossed with “ 5270 ” and “ 93 ” , bisect on one side and plain on the other side , in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5095 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 5095 - 1 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5095 - 3 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 5095 - 2 The 10 mg tablet is a white , round , film - coated , convex tablet debossed with “ 5271 ” and “ 93 ” , on one side and plain on the other side , in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5013 - 0 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5013 - 1 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] , protected from moisture .
Dispense in tight containers as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure , as required .
Manufactured In Canada By : TEVA CANADA LIMITED Toronto , Canada M1B 2K9 Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . I 3 / 2011 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Bisoprolol Fumarate Tablets 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bisoprolol Fumarate Tablets 10 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
