ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Dimethicone 2 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Iron Powder , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Oil , Phenyl Trimethicone , Octyldodecanol , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Glyceryl Stearate , Bentonite , Oenothera Biennis ( Evening Primrose ) Oil , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Persea Gratissima ( Avocado ) Oil , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , C30 - 45 Alkyldimethylsilyl Polypropylsilsesquioxane , Prunus Amygdalus Dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) Oil , Cetearyl Olivate , Sorbitan Olivate , Sea Silt , Argania Spinosa Kernel Oil , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polyricinoleate , Dibutyl Lauroyl Glutamide , Beeswax , Cyclomethicone , Dibutyl Ethylhexanoyl Glutamide , Pueraria Lobata Root Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Paeonia Lactiflora Bark / Sap Extract , Poncirus Trifoliata Fruit Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Kaolin , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Poly C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate , Titanium Dioxide , Cymbopogon Schoenanthus Oil , Aniba Rosaeodora ( Rosewood ) Wood Oil , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Oil , Sodium Hyaluronate , Phenoxyethanol , Echium Plantagineum Seed Oil , BHT , Adenosine , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Aluminum Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , Cardiospermum Halicacabum Flower / Leaf / Vine Extract PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
If you have the following symptoms while using this cosmetic product , you should stop using it .
Please consult a dermatologist since using it continuously can worsen the symptoms .
( 1 ) While using it , you have symptoms like red spots , swelling , itching , irritation etc . ( 2 ) You have similar symptoms caused by direct sunlight on the applied area .
2 .
Do not use on areas with skin problems such as the wound , eczema and dermatitis .
3 .
Storage and Handling Precautions ( 1 ) Be sure to put the lid back on after use .
( 2 ) Keep this product out of the reach of infants and children .
( 3 ) Do not store this product in places with high / low temperatures and direct sunlight .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep this product out of the reach of infants and children .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications & usage : 1 .
After face wash , put on some of the mask contents on the spatula .
2 .
Apply the mask evenly on the face except for the parts around the eyes and mouth .
3 .
Once finishing applying , wait for 10 minutes until the product is completely absorbed on the face .
4 .
Put on the plastic cover on the head of magnetic cleaner .
5 .
Slowly remove the mask by moving the magnetic cleaner on the face with 0 . 5 cm distance .
( Remove the mud remains by changing the cover if necessary . )
6 .
After the mask is completely removed , touch the face with the hands to absorb the essence .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & Administration : It helps improve skin wrinkles .
Take proper amount of the present product and spread evenly on the skin .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
