Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Oclisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 8 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Reapply every 2 hours • • Use water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • 1 .
limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • 2 .
wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , arachidyl alcohol , beheynl alcohol , arachidyl glucoside , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , steareth - 2 , glycerin , steareth - 21 , dimethicone , phenyl trimethicone , polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , ethylparaben , butylparaben , propylparaben , isobutylparaben , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , polymethyl methacrylate , lecithin , soy isoflavones , polysorbate 80 , alcohol , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , fragrance , benzalkonium chloride , BHT , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label America ’ s Choice ® illuminating daily moisturizer clinically proven to even out skin tone & texture with soy complex & light diffusers * Compare to Aveeno ® PositivelyTM Radiant Daily Moisturizer SPF 15 Ingredients BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN 4 FL OZ ( 120 mL ) Soy , nature ' s secret for naturally radiant skin The multiple health and skin benefits of soy have long been known , including moisturization , texture smoothing and evening out of skin tone .
This oil - free , hypoallergenic and non - comedogenic product is gentle enough for everyday use .
Dermatologists recommend the everyday use of an SPF 15 sunscreen as essential to healthy skin care .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : After cleansing , smooth over face and neck every day for healthier , younger - looking skin .
This unique moisturizer has an exclusive soy complex and light diffusers that work together to naturally even out skin tone and texture , immediately reflecting light to visibly smooth skin imperfections , bringing out skin ' s natural radiance .
This light and quickly absorbed moisturizer is gentle enough for sensitive skin to help maintain healthy - looking skin .
Illuminating Daily Moisturizer is clinically proven to : • • Leave smoother skin • • Improve skin ' s tone and texture • • Visibly even out discolorations • • Improve skin ' s radiance * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson , owner of the registered trademark Aveeno ® Positively RadiantTM Quality Assured Satisfaction Guaranteed or your money back Distributed by Onpoint , Inc . 2 Paragon Drive Montvale , NJ 07645 © 2013 All Rights Reserved .
Manufactured in Israel 52326 AD C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
