Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Homosalate 10 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 4 . 0 % Oxybenzone 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decrease the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash or irritation develops and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water , Ethylhexyl Palmitate , Sorbitol , Polyglyceryl - 3 Methylglucose Distearate , Diethylhexyl Syringylidenemalonate , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Triethanolamine , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Disodium EDTA , Oleth - 3 , Tocopherol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate , Benzyl Alcohol , Chlorphenesin , Fragrance .
Principal Display Panel COMPARE TO COPPERTONE SPORT see back panel kroger FROM OUR FAMILY TO YOURS sunscreen lotion 30 Broad Spectrum SPF 30 • Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) • Wont Run into Eyes 8 FL OZ ( 236 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
