ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Leaf Extract 0 . 01 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Pinus Sylvestris Leaf Extract , Fucoxanthin , Alcohol , Glycerin , Repagermanium , Hypsizygus Marmoreus Extract , Loess Extract , Pinus Densiflora Leaf Extract , Undaria Pinnatifida Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Houttuynia Cordata Extract , Angelica Gigas Root Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Atractyloides Japonica Rhizome Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate , Adenosine , Mineral Water , Boswellia Carterii Resin Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Aloe Ferox Leaf Extract , Beta - glucan , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Germ Extract , Caviar Extract , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Fruit Extract , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Fruit Extract , Pyrus Malus ( Apple ) Fruit Extract , Pyrus Pyrifolia ( Pear ) Fruit Extract , Musa Sapientum ( Banana ) Fruit Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Acorus Calamus Root Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Fruit Extract , Arctium Lappa Root Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , PPG - 26 - Buteth - 26 , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Triethanolamine , Fragrance PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
While in use of cosmetics if there is any abnomality like the following you should stop using it .
If it is used continuously the symptom would be worse .
So , you shall consult a dermatologist .
( 1 ) If there are any abnormalities such as redness , swelling , itching , and irritation while using ( 2 ) In the case such that the application site would have any abnormality like the above due to the direct sunlight .
2 .
Please do not use in areas with abnormalities such as wounds , eczema and dermatitis .
3 .
Storage and Handling Precautions ( 1 ) After use .
the cap must be closed .
two will batdeusi cap .
( 2 ) Keep out of the reach of infants and children .
( 3 ) Please do not store in the places that are hot or cold and under the direct sunlight .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of the reach of infants and children .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications & usage : 1 .
Please spray an F - X Fantacell Solution Ampoule by using the exclusive spray device ( Airbrush Compressor ) 2 .
Fill an Airbrush with a half bottle of an F - X Fantacell Solution Ampoule each time and spray it directly to the body parts such as face , neck , hands , feet , full body and etc .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & Administration : The amount to use is recommended to be once per two days .
Or you may add or reduce some of the amount to use depending on skin conditions .
( 1 ) After clearing makeup and washing the face , please gently spray in the face .
( 2 ) You may use it gently spraying in the face in a state with makeup .
( 3 ) It would be better if the ampoule is used after cleansing the face before bed .
( 4 ) It would take 5 ~ 10 minutes to spray a half bottle of the ampoule on the face .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
