Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose oral pain reliever Uses • For the temporary relief of pain due to toothache • To help protect against infection of minor oral irritation .
Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Cut open tip of tube on score mark • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply a small amount of product to the cavity and around the gum surrounding the teeth .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor • Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • Children under 2 years of age : do not use Other Information • Do not use if tip is cut prior to opening • This preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted • Do not use continuously • This formula will stay in place for extended duration of relief • Avoid using toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for at least one hour after applying Inactive Ingredients : Ammonium Glycyrrhizate , Flavor , PEG - 400 , PEG - 3350 , Sodium Saccharin Dihydrate , Sorbic Acid 20 % BENZOCAINE TO RELIEVE ORAL PAIN COOLS GUM & RELIEVES IRRITATION For toothaches Toothache and Gum pain Relief Gel TAMPER - EVIDENT : Do not use if tube is cut prior to use .
Retain carton for complete product information .
Distributed by Belmora LLC , 3033 Wilson Blvd .
Suite 700 Arlington , VA 22201 | www . anadentusa . com Questions / Comments please call : 1 888 779 2877 Monday to Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
