Rx only .
DESCRIPTION Hyoscyamine Sulfate Sublingual Tablets 0 . 125 mg are white , pentagon shaped tablets debossed " VIP107 " on one side .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Sublingual tablets contain 0 . 125 mg Hyoscyamine sulfate formulated for oral administration .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is one of the principal anticholinergic / antispasmodic components of belladonna alkaloids .
The molecular formulate is ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 ∙ H2SO4 ∙ 2H2O and the molecular weight is 712 . 85 .
Chemically , it is benzeneacetic acid , α - hydroxymethyl ) - 8 - mehtyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester , [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) , dehydrate with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet also contains as inactive ingredients : mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits specifically the actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of the smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node , and the exocrine glands .
At therapeutic doses , it is completely devoid of any action on autonomic ganglia .
Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits gastrointestinal propulsive motility and decreases gastric acid secretion .
Hyoscyamine sulfate also controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal and bronchial secretions .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is absorbed totally and completely by sublingual administration as well as oral administration .
Once absorbed , Hyoscyamine sulfate disappears rapidly from the blood and is distributed throughout the entire body .
The half - life of Hyoscyamine sulfate is 2 to 3 ½ hours .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is partly hydrolyzed to tropic acid and tropine but the majority of the drug is excreted in the urine unchanged within the first 12 hours .
Only traces of this drug are found in breast milk .
Hyoscyamine sulfate passes the blood brain barrier and the placental barrier .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine sulfate is indicated whenever antispasmodic or anticholinergic therapy is desired .
The high degree of purity allows effective action at very low dosage , with a minimal incidence of unwanted side effects .
CONTRADICTIONS May be contraindicated in glaucoma , prostatic hypertrophy and some cases of cardiac disease .
SIDE EFFECTS Excessive dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , urinary difficulty and tachycardia may indicate over dosage .
WARNINGS In the presence of high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Like other anticholinergic agents , Hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs including Hyoscyamine sulfate .
CNS signs and symptoms include confusion , disorientation , short term memory loss , hallucinations , dysarthria , ataxia , euphoria , anxiety , fatigue , insomnia , agitation and mannerisms , and inappropriate affect .
These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of the drug .
PRECAUTIONS General Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , and renal disease .
Investigate any tachycardia before giving any anticholinergic drug since they may increase the heart rate .
Use with caution in patients with hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Information for Patients Like other anticholinergic agents , Hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness , dizziness , or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Use of Hyoscyamine sulfate may decrease sweating resulting in heat prostration , fever or heat stroke ; febrile patients or those who may be exposed to elevated environmental temperatures should use caution .
Drug Interactions Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade may occur when Hyoscyamine sulfate is administered concomitantly with other antimuscarinics , amantadine , haloperidol , phenothiazines , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants or some antihistamines .
Antacids may interfere with the absorption of Hyoscyamine sulfate .
Administer Hyoscyamine sulfate before meals ; antacids after meals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to determine the carcinogenic , mutagenic or impairment of fertility potential of Hyoscyamine sulfate .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Hyoscyamine sulfate .
It is also not known whether Hyoscyamine sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Hyoscyamine sulfate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Hyoscyamine sulfate is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when Hyoscyamine sulfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in safety between patients aged 65 and over and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS All of the following adverse reactions have been reported with Hyoscyamine sulfate .
Adverse reactions may include dryness of the mouth ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; mydriasis ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; fatigue ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; abdominal pain ; diarrhea ; allergic reactions or drug idiosyncrasies ; urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; ataxia ; speech disturbance ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement ( especially in elderly persons ) ; short - term memory loss ; hallucinations ; and decreased sweating .
To report suspected adverse reactions , contact Vilvet Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 705 - 4369 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Measures to be taken are immediate lavage of the stomach and injection of physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg .
Fever may be treated symptomatically ( tepid water sponge baths , hypothermic blanket ) .
Excitement to a degree of which demands attention may be managed with sodium thiopental 2 % solution given slowly intravenously or chloral hydrate ( 100 - 200 mL of a 2 % solution ) by rectal infusion .
In the event of progression of the curare - like effect to paralysis of the respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
In rats , the LD50 for Hyoscyamine is 375 mg / kg .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms .
The tablets may be taken sublingually , orally or chewed .
Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older 1 to 2 tablets every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age ½ to 1 tablet every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED Hyoscyamine Sulfate Sublingual Tablets 0 . 125 mg are white , pentagon shaped tablets debossed " VIP107 " on one side in bottles of 100 ct , NDC 71186 - 009 - 25 .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Please refer to current USP .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : Vilvet Pharmaceuticals Inc Chester Springs , PA 19425 Rev / 2011 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 125 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 71186 - 009 - 25 HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE Sublingual Tablets 0 . 125 mg EACH TABLET CONTAINS : Hyoscyamine sulfate 0 . 125 mg RX ONLY Vilvet Pharmaceuticals 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
