DESCRIPTION : PRTM Benzoyl Peroxide Wash is intended for topical administration and contains Benzoyl Peroxide for use in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
Benzoyl Peroxide is an oxidizing agent that possesses antibacterial properties and is classified s a keratolytic .
Benzoyl Peroxide ( C14H10O4 ) is represented by the following chemical structure : O = C – O – O – C = O Each mL of PRTM Benzoyl Peroxide Wash contains 70 mg of Benzoyl Peroxide in an emulsion based formulation consisting of : aloe , carbomer 940 , cetyl alcohol , disodium oleamido MEA - sulfosuccinate , disodium EDTA , glyceryl stearate / PEG - 100 stearate , glycerin , green tea , laureth - 12 , magnesium aluminum silicate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium coco - sulfate , sodium lauroamphoacetate , xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The mechanism of action of Benzoyl Peroxide is not totally understood but its antibacterial activity against Propionibacterium acnes is thought to be a major mode of action .
In addition , patients treated with Benzoyl Peroxide show a reduction in lipids and free fatty acids , and mild desquamation ( drying and peeling activity ) with simultaneous reduction in comedones and acne lesions .
Little is known about the percutaneous penetration , metabolism , and excretion of Benzoyl Peroxide , although it has been shown that Benzoyl Peroxide absorbed by the skin is metabolized to benzoic acid and then excreted as benzoate in the urine .
There is no evidence of systemic toxicity caused by Benzoyl Peroxide in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : PRTM Benzoyl Peroxide Wash is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : PRTM Benzoyl Peroxide Wash is contraindicated in persons with a known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS : When using this product , avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
PRECAUTIONS : General : For external use only .
If severe irritation develops , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
After reaction clears , treatment may often be resumed with less frequent application .
These preparations should not be used in or near the eyes or on mucous membranes .
Information For Patients : Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
Contact with any colored material ( including hair and fabric ) may result in bleaching or discoloration .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogensesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Data from several studies employing a strain of mice that is highly susceptible to developing cancer suggest that Benzoyl Peroxide acts as a tumor promoter .
The clinical significance of these findings to humans is unknown .
Benzoyl Peroxide has not been found to be mutagenic ( Ames Test ) and there are no published data indicating it impairs fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Benzoyl Peroxide .
It is not known whether Benzoyl Peroxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzoyl Peroxide should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
There are no available data on the effect of Benzoyl Peroxide on the later growth , development and functional maturation of the unborn child .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic contact dermatitis and dryness have been reported with topical Benzoyl Peroxide therapy .
OVERDOSAGE : If excessive scaling , erythema or edema occurs , the use of this preparation should be discontinued .
To hasten resolution of the adverse effects , cool compresses may be used .
After symptoms and signs subside , a reduced dosage schedule may be cautiously tried if the reaction is judged to be due to excessive use and not allergenicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : PRTM Benzoyl Peroxide Wash : Apply to affected areas once or twice a day , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If excessive drying occurs , control by rinsing of cleanser sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : PRTM Benzoyl Peroxide Wash is supplied in a 16 oz bottle , NDC 42546 - 145 - 16 .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Box NDC 42546 - 145 - 16 PR ™ Benzoyl Peroxide Wash ( 7 % Benzoyl Peroxide ) TOPICAL ACNE THERAPY 7 % Rx only Net wt .
16 oz PRUGEN ™ PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
