Drug Facts Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • tiredness • breast pain • nausea • headache • vomiting • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • dizziness Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it , the better it will work .
• If you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat that dose .
Other information • read the instructions , warnings , and enclosed product leaflet before use • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• do not use if the carton is open or blister seal is broken or missing • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and pregelatinized starch Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 224 - 4606 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 49615 - 017 - 01 Levonorgestrel Tablet 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
ONE TABLET .
ONE DOSE .
OC Pharma Contains 1 Levonorgestrel Tablet 1 . 5 mg • The sooner you take it , the more effective it will be .
• Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
• Will not harm an existing pregnancy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
