Dosage RX Only in USA Before dispensing remove cap and peel off seal Contains : 1 . 1 % w / w Sodium fluoride ( provides 5000 ppm fluoride ) Usual treatment does contains 1 - 3 mg fluoride .
A 2 . 0 oz tube contains 300 mg of fluoride Indications & Usage Indications and Usage Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
This is an anti - cavity ( preventive treatment gel , not a toothpaste .
Read directions carefully before using .
Clinical studies have shown that 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride is safe and effective as an anti - cavity agent when used topically .
This product should be applied with a toothbrush after brushing with a dentifrice toothpaste .
It can be used in areas where drinking water is fluoridated since topical fluorides do not produce fluorosis when used as directed .
Adults and children 6 years of age and older : Use once daily after brushing with a dentifrice toothpaste .
Apply a thin ribbon of gel to toothbrush and brush teeth thoroughly .
Allow the gel to reamin on your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not swallow gel .
For best effectiveness , do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after brushing .
Supervise children less than 12 years of age as necessary when using this product to minimize swallowing .
Children under 6 years of age - consult a dentist or physician .
Contraindications Hypersensitivity to fluoride Warnings & Precautions Do not swallow .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
For use only under supervision of a dental professional or physician .
Adverse Reactions : Developing teeth of children under 6 years of age may become permanently discolored if excess quantities are repeatedly swallowed .
Reactions of individuals whith fluoride hypersensitivity amy include : eczema , atopic dermatitis , uticaria , gastric distress , headache , and weakness .
Overdose : If you accidentally swallow more than used for brushing , administer calcium ( e . g . milk ) and seek professional medical assistance or contact local Poison Control Center immediately .
For product SDS information , please see company website at pascaldental . com or contact Pascal directly .
Neutragard Gel is free of gluten , milk , soy , egg , peanut and tree nut products .
Store product between 59 - 86ºF ( 15 - 30ºC ) NeutraGard Gel 1 . 1 % Neutral Sodium Fluoride Gel Mint [ MULTIMEDIA ] pH7 5000 Preventive Treatment Gel for Home Use Mint Flavor REF 11 - 715 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
