BLOOD - PACK ™ Unit with an Integral SEPACELL ™ FLEX - EXCEL ™ Leukocyte Reduction Filter Using CPD / ADSOL ™ Red Cell Preservation Solution for Whole Blood Collection and Filtration of Red Blood Cells Rx only Contains Sample Diversion System for the collection of whole blood samples for laboratory testing .
Also includes the DONORCARE ™ Needle Guard .
Integral filter unit intended for leukocyte reduction of AS - 1 red blood cells : • At ambient temperature up to 8 hours after blood collection .
• At refrigerated temperature up to 3 days after blood collection if AS - 1 red blood cells are prepared within 3 days after whole blood collection .
The leukocyte reduced red blood cells may then be stored for the maximum allowable dating period .
Instructions for Use Collection Procedure : Use aseptic technique .
Notes : • If sample diversion system is not used , donor samples may be collected using an alternate method following standard procedures .
• Nominal tubing dimensions of product are 0 . 118 " inner diameter x 0 . 025 " wall thickness .
Precautions : • Upon removal of BLOOD - PACK ™ unit from the clear plastic overwrap , visually inspect the unit .
• Do not use the product if the in - line cannula is broken and / or anticoagulant is present in the sample pouch or in the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle ( see Figure 1 ) .
Note that condensation in the empty tubing of the BLOOD - PACK unit is expected as a result of the sterilization process .
• Do not use unless the solutions are clear .
1 .
Identify BLOOD - PACK unit using appropriate donor identification system .
2 .
Donor scale • Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight .
• Position primary container on the donor scale as far as possible below donor arm .
3 .
Clamp donor tubing between the needle and Y - junction with hemostat .
( This step can be performed prior to step 1 or 2 . )
4 .
Visually inspect the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle , as well as the sample pouch to reconfirm that there is no anticoagulant present .
Note : Ensure that the sample pouch remains below the donor ' s arm .
5 .
Follow blood center procedures , apply pressure to donor ' s arm and disinfect site of venipuncture .
6 .
Remove needle cover per instructions below : • Holding the hub and cover near the tamper - evident seal , twist cover 1 / 4 turn to break seal .
• Remove needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
7 .
Following blood center procedures , perform venipuncture , appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing and release hemostat .
8 .
When good blood flow is established , slide the DONORCARE ™ needle guard over the needle hub into the engaged position .
Leave the front third of the needle hub exposed for access .
Stabilize the front of the needle guard to arm with tape .
( see Figure 2 ) Note : In difficult collection conditions ( e . g . , slow blood flow ) , leave the needle guard disengaged behind the hub during collection .
Engage the needle guard at the end of blood collection .
Appropriately secure needle and / or tubing .
9 .
Allow the sample pouch to fill with blood according to center procedure .
Monitor blood flow into sample pouch .
Notes : • The sample pouch contains an average fill volume of approximately 53 mL with a maximum fill volume of approximately 60 mL when filled to capacity .
• If less blood sample volume is required , the flow to the sample pouch may be stopped prior to completely filling the pouch .
For example , in order to target a fill volume of approximately 40 mL , fill to the level indicated by the arrows in Figure 1 .
Ensure the pouch is hanging vertically .
• The tube leading from the Y - junction to the sample pouch contains an additional volume of approximately 2 mL .
Precautions : • Do not elevate or squeeze the sample pouch as this could cause blood to backflow from the sample pouch into the collection system .
• Once the sample pouch is filled to desired volume , complete steps 10 - 18 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing and / or sample pouch .
10 .
Close the blue clamp on tubing between the Y - junction and the sample pouch .
11 .
Break the in - line cannula below the Y - junction in the donor tubing to the primary container allowing blood collection to proceed .
To completely break the in - line cannula , grasp with both hands .
Snap it at a 90 ° angle in one direction , and then bend it at a 90 ° angle in the opposite direction .
Ensure the in - line cannula is completely broken and that the blood flows freely to the primary container .
Precaution : Failure to break the in - line cannula completely may result in restricted blood flow .
12 .
Following blood center procedures , mix blood and anticoagulant in the primary container immediately and at several intervals during collection .
13 .
Following blood center procedures , hermetically seal the tubing between the sampling site and the Y - junction to maintain sterility of the blood collection system prior to removing blood samples .
Warning : • Do not proceed with the remaining steps until the tubing leading to the sample pouch is hermetically sealed between the sampling site and the Y - junction .
To maintain the whole blood collection container as a closed system , the tubing between the sample pouch and Y - junction must be hermetically sealed prior to inserting the access device into the sampling site .
Failure to do so may lead to contamination of the whole blood collection .
14 .
Insert the access device by pushing firmly into the sampling site until the membrane seal is penetrated .
Note : If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon insertion to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
15 .
Open the cap on the access device ( if applicable ) .
Hold access device so that the sample pouch hangs down .
16 .
Directly align the vacuum sample tube with the internal needle in the access device .
Insert vacuum sample tube into device .
17 .
Allow vacuum sample tube to fill with blood then remove from the access device .
18 .
Repeat steps 16 and 17 until the desired number of vacuum sample tubes have been filled .
Notes : • If the access device needs to be replaced , use a hemostat to clamp the tubing between the sampling site and the sample pouch .
Then , grasp base of sampling site with one hand and pull the access device out with the other hand .
Firmly insert the new access device .
Remove hemostat and continue sampling .
• If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon removal to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
• The access device can only be replaced one time .
Precaution : When replacing access device , be careful to avoid contact with any blood droplets on the Luer or sampling site .
Discard used access device appropriately .
19 .
Collect the appropriate volume based on BLOOD - PACK unit used .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on BLOOD - PACK unit ± 10 % .
Precaution : Once the desired blood volume is collected , complete steps 20 - 24 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing .
20 .
Release pressure on the donor ’ s arm .
If appropriate , apply hemostat to donor tubing between the needle and the Y - junction .
21 .
Hermetically seal donor tubing between the in - line cannula and the primary container .
22 .
Withdrawal of Needle ( see Figure 3 ) Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
a ) Place folded sterile gauze over puncture site and hold in place with finger tip without exerting pressure .
b ) Hold sides of needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the tubing smoothly until the needle is locked into the needle guard .
c ) Confirm the needle lock by : • Listen for the 2 nd “ click ” as the needle is drawn into the needle guard .
• Ensure the tubing cannot be pulled through the needle guard .
23 .
Remove and discard the sample diversion system and needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following established procedures .
Note : Step 24 may be performed prior to step 23 if desired .
24 .
If the donor tubing is not hermetically sealed directly above the primary container , then strip the blood from the remaining donor tubing into the primary container .
Mix and allow tubing to refill ; repeat once .
Component Preparation : Notes : • If a platelet concentrate is to be prepared , it should be separated within 8 hours after blood collection .
• Fresh frozen plasma should be separated from the red blood cells and placed in the freezer at - 18 ° C or colder within 8 hours after blood collection .
• ADSOL ™ red cell preservation solution should be added to the red blood cells immediately after the removal of plasma .
Preparation of AS - 1 red blood cells may vary depending on processing option selected : a ) Within 8 hours of blood collection if whole blood is held at ambient temperature .
b ) Within 3 days of blood collection if whole blood is refrigerated .
25 .
At the appropriate time , prepare the BLOOD - PACK unit with Integral Filter for centrifugation .
26 .
Thoroughly mix the primary container end over end .
27 .
Load the BLOOD - PACK Unit into a centrifuge cup per the instructions on page 3 or 4 .
Page 3 describes Option A , the coil tubing method of cup loading .
Page 4 describes Option B , the drop tubing method of cup loading .
Notes : • This guide is one method for centrifuge cup loading and applies to all Flex - Excel configurations .
The specific stacking order and methods may vary depending on the workstation setup , centrifuge equipment , and Standard Operating Procedures .
• It is important to pack the filter properly in the centrifugation cup to avoid damage to the filter during centrifugation .
• Check valve must be placed in a horizontal position ( Figure 4 a , page 2 ) .
Avoid the clear ( red tip ) side from pointing downward ( Figure 4 b , page 2 ) .
See step 3 on page 3 or 4 .
• Do not place the filter , breakaway cannula or check valve in the lower half of the centrifuge cup .
See step 5 on page 3 or 4 .
28 .
After loading the BLOOD - PACK Unit into the centrifuge cup , perform centrifugation according to center procedures .
29 .
Following centrifugation , remove containers from the centrifugation cup taking care not to disturb the red blood cell / plasma interface .
30 .
Place primary container in a plasma extractor and apply pressure .
If applicable , clamp off tubing below Y - Junction leading to secondary TRANSFER - PACK ™ container not to be filled with plasma .
Open the cannula on the top of the primary container to transfer plasma into the empty TRANSFER - PACK container .
31 .
When the desired amount of plasma has been removed , clamp the tubing between the plasma container and the Y - connector closest to the plasma container and release pressure on the primary container .
32 .
Suspend the ADSOL red cell preservation solution container , open the cannula on the ADSOL solution container and drain the contents into the primary container of the CPD red blood cells .
Clamp the ADSOL red cell preservation solution tubing .
33 .
Hermetically seal the tubing between the Y - connectors or above the plasma TRANSFER - PACK container .
Be careful to avoid fluid splatter .
34 .
Mix the ADSOL red cell preservation solution and red cells thoroughly .
Note : If the ADSOL red cell preservation solution is not added to the red cells , ensure appropriate labeling of the red cell container .
The pre - filter container does not include tubing with segment numbers .
A CPD red cell without ADSOL red cell preservation solution may be stored between 1 and 6ºC up to 21 days after collection .
The attached SEPACELL ™ FLEX - EXCEL ™ filter should not be used to leukoreduce a CPD red cell without ADSOL red cell preservation solution .
Filtration Procedure : Precaution : Red blood cell products collected from certain donors may have extended filtration times and the potential for ineffective filtration and leukoreduction .
35 .
Mix unfiltered AS - 1 red blood cells thoroughly .
Invert the unfiltered AS - 1 red blood cells and hang the filter set such that the filter remains vertical .
To achieve maximum flow rate , allow the set to hang to full length .
Note : The storage container must remain below the level of the filter during filtration .
36 .
Inspect all tubing to ensure it hangs freely without kinks .
If desired , a temporary clamp may be placed on the vent line , but must be removed prior to expelling air through the vent line .
37 .
Break the in - line cannula above the filter to start filtration .
Note : Manual or mechanical pressure should not be used to increase the flow rate through the filter .
Note : Tubing below the filter should not be stripped at any time during the filtration process .
Note : If filtration of red cells is initiated at ambient temperature , the filtration process can be completed at either ambient or refrigerated temperature prior to storing the red cells between 1 and 6 ° C . However , for optimal filtration time , it is recommended to complete the filtration at ambient temperature .
38 .
As the filtered red cell storage container is filling , or when flow stops , clamp or pinch the tubing below the filter to occlude flow .
Note : While the check valve is designed to prevent blood flow from entering the vent line below the valve , blood may flow down and fill the valve .
39 .
Squeeze the filtered red cell storage container to expel air from the filtered red cell container through the vent line .
Continue squeezing the filtered red cell container until the vent line segments and check valve are filled with blood as desired .
40 .
Remove the clamp or release the tubing below the filter to resume red cell flow through the filter .
If desired , the temporary clamp may be replaced on the vent line immediately after removing the clamp below the filter .
When filtration is complete , air can be observed in the inlet side of the filter .
Note : While the check valve is designed to prevent blood flow from entering the vent line below the valve , it is normal for air to pass through the valve and enter the vent line tubing .
To avoid air from entering the vent line below the valve , the vent line may be clamped during this step , or blood may be expressed beyond the check valve during the air expel operation .
41 .
Hermetically seal and detach the tubing below the filter .
Also , hermetically seal and detach the vent line between the one way valve and the top donor segment number .
42 .
Make segments from the vent line tubing and leave segments attached to the filtered red cell storage container .
( QC samples may be prepared by thoroughly mixing the filtered red cells and stripping this tubing prior to sealing the segments . )
43 .
Store the AS - 1 red blood cells , leukocytes reduced between 1 and 6 ° C . 44 .
Infuse the red cells within 42 days of collection .
Warning : Failure to achieve closed system processing conditions negates the extended storage claim and the red blood cell product must be transfused within 24 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
USP Definition of “ Controlled Room Temperature ” United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc .
12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fenwal , Inc .
Lake Zurich , IL 60047 USA Made in USA 1 - 800 - 933 - 6925 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufacturer FENWAL , BLOOD - PACK , TRANSFER - PACK , ADSOL and FLEX - EXCEL are trademarks of Fenwal , Inc .
SEPACELL is a trademark of Asahi Kasei Medical Co . , Ltd .
DONORCARE is a trademark of ITL Corporation .
© 2018 Fenwal , Inc .
All rights reserved .
07 - 19 - 13 - 106 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL Code 4R1583 10 Units Fenwal ™ Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Solution , USP ( CPD ) BLOOD - PACK ™ Unit ; TRANSFER - PACK ™ Container with ADSOL ™ Red Cell Preservation Solution ; Integral SEPACELL ™ FLEX - EXCEL ™ Red Cell Leukocyte Reduction Filter Double For Collection and Processing of 500 mL Blood Sample Diversion System , DONORCARE ™ Needle Guard , 16 ga .
Ultra Thin Wall Needle Rx only Each unit consists of a PL 146 Plastic primary container with 70 mL of CPD solution containing 1 . 84 g Sodium Citrate ( dihydrate ) USP , 1 . 78 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 209 mg Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) USP , 155 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( monohydrate ) USP , pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide ; one 400 mL PL 146 plastic satellite container with 110 mL of ADSOL ™ red cell preservation solution containing 2 . 42 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 990 mg Sodium Chloride USP , 825 mg Mannitol USP , 30 mg Adenine USP ; one empty 400 mL PL 2209 Plastic TRANSFER - PACK ™ container ; one integral SEPACELL ™ FLEX - EXCEL ™ red cell leukocyte reduction filter and one empty 450 mL PL 2209 Plastic TRANSFER - PACK container for the storage of AS - 1 red blood cells , leukocytes reduced .
Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path .
See instructions for use .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature ( refer to direction insert ) .
• • Open pouch by tearing across at notch .
• • Direct handling of product surfaces prior to extended storage in the foil pouch , may result in mold growth .
• • Unused units in open foil pouch may be kept up to 60 days by folding and securing open end of foil pouch to prevent possible loss of moisture , provided : I ) Units are not removed from foil pouch , or II ) Unused units removed from foil pouch are returned to the foil pouch within 12 hours .
Units may be removed from the pouch and returned only once .
• • Units removed from the foil pouch ( that are not returned to the pouch within 12 hours ) must be used within 4 days ( 96 hours ) .
Units out of the foil pouch for longer than 96 hours must be discarded FENWAL , BLOOD - PACK , ADSOL , TRANSFER - PACK and FLEX - EXCEL are trademarks of Fenwal , Inc .
SEPACELL is a trademark of Asahi Kasei Medical Co . , Ltd .
DONORCARE is a trademark of ITL Corporation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Fenwal , Inc .
Lake Zurich , IL 60047 USA Made in USA 07 - 28 - 07 - 171 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
