DESCRIPTION Podofilox is an antimitotic drug which can be chemically synthesized or purified from the plant families Coniferae and Berberidaceae ( e . g . species of Juniperus and Podophyllum ) .
Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % is formulated for topical administration .
Each gram of gel contains 5 mg of podofilox in a buffered alcoholic gel containing alcohol , glycerin , lactic acid , hydroxypropyl cellulose , sodium lactate , and butylated hydroxytoluene .
Podofilox has a molecular weight of 414 . 4 daltons , and is soluble in alcohol and sparingly soluble in water .
Its chemical name is [ 5 R , - ( 5α , 5aβ , 8aα , 9α ] - 5 , 8 , 8 a , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - hydroxy - 5 - ( 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxyphenyl ) furo [ 3 ' , 4 ' : 6 , 7 ] naphtho - [ 2 , 3 , - d ] - 1 , 3 - dioxol - 6 ( 5 aH ) - one .
Podofilox has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Treatment of anogenital warts with podofilox results in necrosis of visible wart tissue .
The exact mechanism of action is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics In systemic absorption studies in 52 patients , topical application of 0 . 05 mL of an ethanolic solution containing 0 . 5 % podofilox to external genitalia did not result in detectable serum levels .
Applications of 0 . 1 to 1 . 5 mL resulted in peak serum levels of 1 to 17 ng / mL one to two hours after application .
The elimination half - life ranged from 1 . 0 to 4 . 5 hours .
The drug was not found to accumulate after multiple treatments1 .
CLINICAL STUDIES In the first multicenter clinical study in 326 patients with anogenital warts , Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % and its vehicle were applied in a double - blind fashion to comparable patient groups .
Of the 260 patients with efficacy data , 176 were treated with Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % .
Patients applied Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % twice daily for three consecutive days followed by a 4 day “ rest ” period .
At the end of 4 weeks , 38 . 4 % of the patients had complete clearing of the wart tissue when treated with Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % .
In the second multicenter clinical trial in 108 evaluable patients with anogenital warts , Condylox ( podofilox ) Topical Solution 0 . 5 % was compared with Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % for efficacy .
As in the first clinical trial , patients applied Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % twice daily for three consecutive days followed by a four day “ rest ” period .
Similar clearance rates were observed .
At the end of 4 weeks , 25 . 6 % of the patients had complete clearing of the wart tissue when treated with Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % is indicated for the topical treatment of anogenital warts ( external genital warts and perianal warts ) .
This product is not indicated in the treatment of mucous membrane warts ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Diagnosis Although anogenital warts have a characteristic appearance , histopathologic confirmation should be obtained if there is any doubt of the diagnosis .
Differentiating warts from squamous cell carcinoma and " Bowenoid papulosis " is of particular concern .
Squamous cell carcinoma may also be associated with human papillomavirus which should not be treated with Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % is contraindicated for patients who develop hypersensitivity or intolerance to any components of the formulation .
WARNINGS Correct diagnosis of the lesions to be treated is essential .
See the Diagnosis subsection of the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % is intended for cutaneous use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact with the eyes occurs , patients should immediately flush the eyes with copious quantities of water and seek medical advice .
Drug Product is Flammable .
Keep Away from Open Flame .
PRECAUTIONS General Data are not available on the safe and effective use of this product for treatment of warts occurring on mucous membranes of the genital area ( including the urethra , rectum and vagina ) .
The recommended method of application , frequency of application , and duration of usage should not be exceeded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for Patients Patients using Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not intended to disclose all possible adverse or intended effects .
1 ) This medication should be used only as directed by the health care provider .
Patients should be instructed to wash their hands thoroughly before and after each application .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 ) Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
3 ) Patients should report any signs of adverse reactions to the health care provider .
4 ) If no improvement is observed after 4 weeks of treatment , discontinue the medication and consult the health care provider .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility An 80 - week carcinogenicity study in the mouse was performed using a 0 . 5 % podofilox solution applied dermally at 0 . 04 , 0 . 2 and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day .
There were no differences between the podofilox treated mice at any dose level and vehicle control in the incidence of neoplasia .
Published animal studies , in general , have not shown the drug substance , podofilox , to be carcinogenic . 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 There are published reports that , in mouse studies , crude podophyllin resin ( containing podofilox ) applied topically to the cervix produced changes resembling carcinoma in situ . 7 These changes were reversible at five weeks after cessation of treatment .
In one reported experiment , epidermal carcinoma of the vagina and cervix was found in 1 out of 18 mice after 120 applications of podophyllin8 ( the drug was applied twice weekly over a 15 - month period ) .
Podofilox was not mutagenic in the Ames plate reverse mutation assay at concentrations up to 5 mg / plate , with and without metabolic activation .
No cell transformation related to potential oncogenicity was observed in BALB / 3T3 cells after exposure to podofilox at concentrations up to 0 . 008 mcg / mL , without metabolic activation and 12 mcg / mL podofilox with metabolic activation .
Results from the mouse micronucleus in vivo assay using podofilox 0 . 5 % solution at doses up to 25 mg / kg ( 75 mg / m2 ) , indicate that podofilox should be considered a potential clastogen ( a chemical that induces disruption and breakage of chromosomes ) .
Daily topical application of 0 . 5 % podofilox solution at doses up to the equivalent of 0 . 2 mg / kg ( 1 . 18 mg / m2 , approximately equivalent to the human daily dose ) to rats throughout gametogenesis , mating , gestation , parturition and lactation for two generations demonstrated no impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy 0 . 5 % podofilox solution was not teratogenic in the rabbit following topical application of up to 0 . 21 mg / kg ( 2 . 85 mg / m2 , approximately 2 times the maximum human dose ) once daily for 13 days .
The scientific literature contains references that podofilox is embryotoxic in rats when administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 5 mg / kg ( 29 . 5 mg / m2 , approximately 19 times the recommended maximum human dose . )
9 Teratogenicity and embryotoxicity have not been studied with intravaginal application .
Many antimitotic drug products are known to be embryotoxic .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from podofilox , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials with Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % , the following local adverse reactions were reported during the treatment of anogenital warts .
The severity of local adverse reactions were predominantly mild or moderate and did not increase during the treatment period .
Severe reactions were most frequent within the first 2 weeks of treatment .
Adverse Reaction Mild Moderate Severe Inflammation 32 . 2 % 30 . 4 % 9 . 3 % Burning 37 . 1 % 25 . 9 % 11 . 5 % Erosion 27 . 0 % 20 . 8 % 8 . 9 % Pain 23 . 7 % 20 . 4 % 11 . 5 % Itching 32 . 2 % 16 . 0 % 7 . 8 % Bleeding 19 . 2 % 3 . 0 % 0 . 7 % Other local adverse reactions reported included stinging ( 7 % ) , and erythema ( 5 % ) ; less commonly reported local adverse events included desquamation , scabbing , discoloration , tenderness , dryness , crusting , fissures , soreness , ulceration , swelling / edema , tingling , rash , and blisters .
The most common systemic adverse event reported during the clinical studies was headache ( 7 % ) .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied podofilox may be absorbed systemically ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section ) .
Toxicity reported following systemic administration of podofilox in investigational use for cancer treatment included : nausea , vomiting , fever , diarrhea , bone marrow depression , and oral ulcers .
Following 5 to 10 daily intravenous doses of 0 . 5 to 1 mg / kg / day , significant hematological toxicity occurred but was reversible . 10 Other toxicities occurred at lower doses .
Toxicity reported following systemic administration of podophyllum resin included : nausea , vomiting , fever , diarrhea , peripheral neuropathy , altered mental status , lethargy , coma , tachypnea , respiratory failure , leukocytosis , pancytosis , hematuria , renal failure and seizures . 11 Treatment of topical overdosage should include washing the skin free of any remaining drug and symptomatic and supportive therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The prescriber should ensure that the patient is fully aware of the correct method of therapy and identify which specific warts should be treated .
Apply twice daily for 3 consecutive days , then discontinue for 4 consecutive days .
This one - week cycle of treatment may be repeated until there is no visible wart tissue or for a maximum of four cycles .
If there is incomplete response after four treatment cycles , discontinue treatment and consider alternative treatment .
Safety and effectiveness of more than four treatment cycles has not been established .
There is no evidence to suggest that more frequent application will increase efficacy , but additional applications would be expected to increase the rate of local adverse reactions and systemic absorption .
Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % should be applied to the warts with the applicator tip or finger .
Application on the surrounding normal tissue should be minimized .
Treatment should be limited to 10 cm2 or less of wart tissue and to no more than 0 . 5 gram of the gel per day .
Care should be taken to allow the gel to dry before allowing the return of opposing skin surfaces to their normal positions .
Patients should be instructed to wash their hands thoroughly before and after each application .
HOW SUPPLIED Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % is supplied as 3 . 5 grams of clear gel in aluminum tubes with an applicator tip .
NDC 0023 - 6118 - 03 .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not freeze .
Keep out of reach of children .
Rx only REFERENCES • Von Krogh G . Podophyllotoxin in serum : Absorption subsequent to three day repeated applications of a 0 . 5 % ethanolic preparation on condylomata acuminata .
Sex Trans Disease 1982 : 9 : 26 - 33 .
• Berenblum I .
The effect of podophyllotoxin on the skin of the mouse , with reference to carcinogenic , cocarcinogenic , and anticarcinogenic action .
J Cancer Inst 11 : 839 - 841 , 1951 .
• Kaminetzky HA , Swerdlow M . Podophyllin and the mouse cervix : assessment of carcinogenic potential .
Am J Obst Gyn 95 : 486 - 490 , 1965 .
• McGrew EA , Kaminetzky HA .
The genesis of experimental cervical epithelial dysplasia .
Am J Clin Path 35 : 538 - 545 , 1961 .
• Roe FJC , Salaman MH .
Further studies on incomplete carcinogenesis : triethylene melamine ( T . E . M . ) 1 , 2 benxanthracene and beta - propiolactone as initiators of skin tumor formation in the mouse .
Brit J Cancer , 9 : 177 - 203 , 1955 .
• Taper HS .
Induction of the deficient acid DNAase activity in mouse interfollicular epidermis by croton oil as a possible tumor promoting mechanism .
Zeitschrift fur Krebsforschung and Klinisch Onkologie ( Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology , Berlin ) 90 : 197 - 210 , 1977 .
• Kaminetzky HA , McGrew EA , Phillips RL .
Experimental cervical epithelial dysplasia .
J Obst Gyn 14 : 1 - 10 , 1959 .
• Kaminetzky HA , McGrew EA : Podophyllin and mouse cervix : Effect of long term application .
Arch Path 73 : 481 - 485 , 1962 .
• Thiersch JB .
Effect of podophyllin ( P ) and podophylotoxine ( PT . )
on the rat litter in utero .
Soc Exptl Biol Med Proc .
113 : 124 - 127 , 1963 .
• Savel H . : Clinical experience with intravenous podophyllotoxin .
Proc Amer Assoc Cancer Res , 1964 ; 5 : 56 .
• Cassidy DE , Dewry J and Fanning JP : Podophyllum toxicity : A report of a fatal case and a review of the literature .
J Toxicol Clinic Toxicol 1982 : 19 : 35 - 44 .
For all medical inquiries contact : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2018 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
CONDYLOX ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC .
Allergan ® and its design are trademarks of Allergan , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Content Updated : May 2018 v1 . 0USPI6118 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information Condylox ® Gel 0 . 5 % ( podofilox gel ) Rx only Condylox Gel ( podofilox gel ) and Anogenital Warts • APPLY CONDYLOX GEL ONLY ON THE WARTS POINTED OUT BY YOUR DOCTOR .
• YOU MAY FEEL SOME MILD TO MODERATE DISCOMFORT DURING TREATMENT .
• STOP TREATMENT AND CALL YOUR DOCTOR IF YOU HAVE BLEEDING , SWELLING , OR EXCESSIVE PAIN , BURNING , OR ITCHING .
• DO NOT USE MORE THAN TWO TIMES A DAY .
• DO NOT USE FOR MORE THAN THREE DAYS IN A ROW .
• DO NOT HAVE SEXUAL INTERCOURSE ON THE DAYS YOU ARE APPLYING CONDYLOX GEL .
• WASH HANDS AFTER EVERY USE .
INTRODUCTION Condylox Gel slowly kills external anogenital warts .
The warts will change from a fleshy skin color to a dry , crusted , dead look , then disappear .
Three out of four patients feel some burning or pain after they apply Condylox Gel .
Other side effects may include redness , soreness , tenderness , and small sores .
These usually go away within a week after Condylox Gel is stopped .
If pain or other side effects bother you too much , stop applying Condylox Gel and contact your doctor .
HOW TO USE CONDYLOX GEL Follow these and your doctor ’ s instructions carefully .
Apply Condylox Gel only on the warts pointed out by your doctor .
Do not use it on any other warts on or inside your body , or for any other skin growth .
1 .
Unscrew the entire applicator cap .
Invert the cap and puncture the tube seal .
Replace the applicator cap .
To apply Condylox Gel , remove the protective cap on the applicator tip and apply to the warts using the applicator tip or finger .
Make sure to replace the applicator cap tightly after use .
APPLY CONDYLOX GEL ONLY WHERE YOUR DOCTOR HAS INSTRUCTED YOU .
2 .
Apply a small amount of Condylox Gel to the wart ( s ) .
Do not get it on normal skin .
If a wart is in a skin fold , spread the skin apart so you can reach the wart .
A hand mirror can help sometimes .
Let Condylox Gel dry before letting the skin folds return to their normal position .
Wash your hands well with soap and water after you use Condylox Gel .
3 .
Apply Condylox Gel once in the morning and once in the evening for three days in a row .
Then stop applying Condylox Gel and wait four days .
Using Condylox Gel like this is called a treatment week .
You should not wash Condylox Gel off the wart area unless you experience excessive pain , burning , or itching .
DO NOT APPLY CONDYLOX GEL MORE THAN TWICE EACH DAY OR FOR MORE THAN THREE DAYS IN A ROW .
USING CONDYLOX GEL MORE OFTEN WILL NOT MAKE IT WORK BETTER BUT MAY INCREASE SIDE EFFECTS .
4 .
If the warts do not go away , repeat the Condylox Gel treatment for another week .
You can use Condylox Gel up to four treatment weeks ( REMEMBER : a treatment week is twice a day for three days , then four days with no treatment ) .
Your doctor may ask you to come back for a check - up visit during treatment .
If the warts have not gone away after four treatment weeks , stop applying Condylox Gel and contact your doctor .
IF THE AREA YOU ARE PUTTING CONDYLOX GEL ON IS BLEEDING OR SWOLLEN , OR IF THERE IS EXCESSIVE PAIN , BURNING OR ITCHING , STOP APPLYING CONDYLOX GEL AND CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR .
5 .
Anogenital warts can come back .
If your warts come back , contact your doctor .
SPECIAL CAUTIONS • Anogenital warts are contagious .
You can give them to or get them from your sexual partner .
Make sure your sexual partner has been checked for anogenital warts .
Condoms may help prevent giving anogenital warts to your sexual partner .
Do not have sexual intercourse for the three days you are applying Condylox Gel .
• Women should make sure to use birth control so they will not get pregnant while on Condylox Gel .
The effects on the unborn baby are not known .
Women can use Condylox Gel during their menstrual period .
• Condylox Gel is prescribed only for your external anogenital warts .
Do not let anyone else use it .
• Drug Product is Flammable .
Keep Away from Open Flame .
REMEMBER • Always wash your hands after using Condylox Gel .
• Do not get it in your eyes .
If you do , immediately flush your eyes with water and contact your doctor .
• Keep the tube cap tightly closed .
• Be sure to keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT CONDYLOX ® GEL .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Keep out of reach of children .
Rx only For all medical inquiries contact : Allergan Medical Communications 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 Distributed By : Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 © 2018 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
CONDYLOX ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC .
Allergan ® and its design are trademarks of Allergan , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Content Updated : May 2018 v1 . 0PPI6118 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Condylox Gel 0 . 5 % 3 . 5 g NDC 0023 - 6118 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
