Active Ingredients ( in each 1 mL ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr ............
5 mg ............. Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin ..........................
100 mg ............. Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl ................
2 . 5 mg .............. Nasal Decongestant Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses • non - narcotic cough suppreassant which temporarily calms due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with common cold • helps decongest sinus openings and passages ; temporarily relieves sinus openings and passages ; temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressur • helps lossen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold • helps decongest sinus openings and passages ; temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Warnings a persistant cough may be sign of a serious condition .
If cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache , consult a doctor .
DO NOT USE If a child is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug that contains MAOI ; ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has : • Heart disease • High blood pressure • Thyroid deases • Diabetes • Cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or where cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor before use if : • your child gets nervous , dizzy , or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health profession before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Do not use more than 6 doses in any 24 hour period • Repeat every 4 hours • Measure with dosage device provided .
Do not use with any other device Children 6 years to under 12 years of age 2 ml Children 2 years to under 6 years of age Ask a doctor Children under 2 years of age Ask a doctor Other Information Store at room temperature 150 - 300 C ( 590 - 860 F ) Tamper Evident Feature : Do not use if seal is torn , broken or missing .
Avoid excessive heat or humidity .
Inactiveingredients citric acid , grape flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , and sucralose Questions or comments ?
1 - 786 - 507 - 1566 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
