WARNING : INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA - RELATED PSYCHOSIS Elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death .
NUPLAZID is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis unrelated to the hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : INCREASED MORTALITY IN ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH DEMENTIA - RELATED PSYCHOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death .
• NUPLAZID is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis unrelated to the hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis .
( 5 . 1 ) Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 11 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NUPLAZID ® is indicated for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis .
NUPLAZID is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose is 34 mg taken orally once daily , without titration .
( 2 . 1 ) • Can be taken with or without food .
( 2 . 2 ) • Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and entire contents sprinkled over a tablespoon of certain types of soft food .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of NUPLAZID is 34 mg taken orally once daily , without titration .
2 . 2 Administration Information NUPLAZID can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUPLAZID capsules can be taken whole , or opened and the entire contents sprinkled over a tablespoon ( 15 mL ) of applesauce , yogurt , pudding , or a liquid nutritional supplement .
Consume the drug / food mixture immediately without chewing ; do not store for future use .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers • Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors The recommended dose of NUPLAZID when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) is 10 mg , taken orally as one tablet once daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Coadministration with Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers with NUPLAZID [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS NUPLAZID ( pimavanserin ) is available as : • 34 mg strength capsules .
The capsules are opaque white and light green with " PIMA " and " 34 " printed in black .
• 10 mg strength tablets .
The orange , round , coated tablets are debossed on one side with a " P " and " 10 " on the reverse side .
• Capsules : 34 mg ( 3 ) • Tablets : 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NUPLAZID is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to pimavanserin or any of its components .
Rash , urticaria , and reactions consistent with angioedema ( e . g . , tongue swelling , circumoral edema , throat tightness , and dyspnea ) have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to NUPLAZID or any of its components .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • QT Interval Prolongation : Increases in QT interval ; avoid use with drugs that also increase the QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis Antipsychotic drugs increase the all - cause risk of death in elderly patients with dementia - related psychosis .
Analyses of 17 dementia - related psychosis placebo - controlled trials ( modal duration of 10 weeks and largely in patients taking atypical antipsychotic drugs ) revealed a risk of death in the drug - treated patients of between 1 . 6 - to 1 . 7 - times that in placebo - treated patients .
Over the course of a typical 10 - week controlled trial , the rate of death in drug - treated patients was about 4 . 5 % , compared to a rate of about 2 . 6 % in placebo - treated patients .
Although the causes of death were varied , most of the deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular ( e . g . , heart failure , sudden death ) or infectious ( e . g . , pneumonia ) in nature .
NUPLAZID is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia - related psychosis unrelated to the hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis [ see Boxed Warning ] .
5 . 2 QT Interval Prolongation NUPLAZID prolongs the QT interval .
The use of NUPLAZID should be avoided in patients with known QT prolongation or in combination with other drugs known to prolong QT interval including Class 1 A antiarrhythmics ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide ) or Class 3 antiarrhythmics ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol ) , certain antipsychotic medications ( e . g . , ziprasidone , chlorpromazine , thioridazine ) , and certain antibiotics ( e . g . , gatifloxacin , moxifloxacin ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
NUPLAZID should also be avoided in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias , as well as other circumstances that may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and / or sudden death , including symptomatic bradycardia , hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia , and the presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia - Related Psychosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • QT Interval Prolongation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) : peripheral edema and confusional state .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 844 - 422 - 2342 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical trial database for NUPLAZID consists of over 1200 subjects and patients exposed to one or more doses of NUPLAZID .
Of these , 616 were patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis ( PDP ) .
In the placebo - controlled setting , the majority of experience in patients comes from studies evaluating once - daily NUPLAZID doses of 34 mg ( N = 202 ) compared to placebo ( N = 231 ) for up to 6 weeks .
In the controlled trial setting , the study population was approximately 64 % male and 91 % Caucasian , and the mean age was about 71 years at study entry .
Additional clinical trial experience in patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with PDP comes from two open - label , safety extension studies ( total N = 497 ) .
The majority of patients receiving long - term treatment received 34 mg once - daily ( N = 459 ) .
Over 300 patients have been treated for more than 6 months ; over 270 have been treated for at least 12 months ; and over 150 have been treated for at least 24 months .
The following adverse reactions are based on the 6 - week , placebo - controlled studies in which NUPLAZID was administered once daily to patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with PDP .
Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and at least twice the rate of placebo ) : peripheral edema ( 7 % NUPLAZID 34 mg vs . 2 % placebo ) and confusional state ( 6 % NUPLAZID 34 mg vs . 3 % placebo ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment A total of 8 % ( 16 / 202 ) of NUPLAZID 34 mg - treated patients and 4 % ( 10 / 231 ) of placebo - treated patients discontinued because of adverse reactions .
The adverse reactions that occurred in more than one patient and with an incidence at least twice that of placebo were hallucination ( 2 % NUPLAZID vs . < 1 % placebo ) , urinary tract infection ( 1 % NUPLAZID vs . < 1 % placebo ) , and fatigue ( 1 % NUPLAZID vs . 0 % placebo ) .
Adverse reactions that occurred in 6 - week , placebo - controlled studies and that were reported at an incidence of ≥ 2 % and > placebo are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions in Placebo - Controlled Studies of 6 - Week Treatment Duration and Reported in ≥ 2 % and > PlaceboPercentage of Patients Reporting Adverse Reaction NUPLAZID 34 mg Placebo N = 202 N = 231 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 7 % 4 % Constipation 4 % 3 % General disorders Peripheral edema 7 % 2 % Gait disturbance 2 % < 1 % Psychiatric disorders Hallucination 5 % 3 % Confusional state 6 % 3 % Adverse Reactions in Demographic Subgroups Examination of population subgroups in the 6 - week , placebo - controlled studies did not reveal any differences in safety on the basis of age ( ≤ 75 vs . > 75 years ) or sex .
Because the study population was predominantly Caucasian ( 91 % ; consistent with reported demographics for PD / PDP ) , racial or ethnic differences in the safety profile of NUPLAZID could not be assessed .
In addition , in the 6 - week , placebo - controlled studies , no clinically relevant differences in the incidence of adverse reactions were observed among those with a Mini - Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) score at entry of < 25 versus those with scores ≥ 25 .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of NUPLAZID .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions include rash , urticaria , reactions consistent with angioedema ( e . g . , tongue swelling , circumoral edema , throat tightness , and dyspnea ) , somnolence , falls , agitation , and aggression .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) : Reduce NUPLAZID dose to 10 mg once daily .
( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of NUPLAZID .
( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with NUPLAZID Table 2 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with NUPLAZIDQT Interval Prolongation Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of NUPLAZID and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia .
Intervention : Avoid the use of NUPLAZID in combination with other drugs known to prolong QT interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Examples : Class 1 A antiarrhythmics : quinidine , procainamide , disopyramide ; Class 3 antiarrhythmics : amiodarone , sotalol ; Antipsychotics : ziprasidone , chlorpromazine , thioridazine ; Antibiotics : gatifloxacin , moxifloxacin Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of NUPLAZID with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases pimavanserin exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : If NUPLAZID is used with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , reduce the dosage of NUPLAZID [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Examples : itraconazole , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , indinavir Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of NUPLAZID with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers reduces pimavanserin exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Avoid concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers with NUPLAZID [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Examples : Strong inducers : carbamazepine , St . John ' s wort , phenytoin , rifampin Moderate inducers : modafinil , thioridazine , efavirenz , nafcillin 7 . 2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with NUPLAZID Based on pharmacokinetic studies , no dosage adjustment of carbidopa / levodopa is required when administered concomitantly with NUPLAZID [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data on NUPLAZID use in pregnant women that would allow assessment of the drug - associated risk of major congenital malformations or miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were seen when pimavanserin was administered orally to rats or rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 10 - or 12 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 34 mg / day , respectively .
Administration of pimavanserin to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation resulted in maternal toxicity and lower pup survival and body weight at doses which are 2 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Pimavanserin was not teratogenic in pregnant rats when administered during the period of organogenesis at oral doses of 0 . 9 , 8 . 5 , and 51 mg / kg / day , which are 0 . 2 - and 10 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 34 mg / day based on AUC at mid and high doses , respectively .
Maternal toxicity included reduction in body weight and food consumption at the highest dose .
Administration of pimavanserin to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation at oral doses of 8 . 5 , 26 , and 51 mg / kg / day , which are 0 . 14 - to 14 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC , caused maternal toxicity , including mortality , clinical signs including dehydration , hunched posture , and rales , and decreases in body weight , and / or food consumption at doses ≥ 26 mg / kg / day ( 2 - times the MRHD based on AUC ) .
At these maternally toxic doses there was a decrease in pup survival , reduced litter size , and reduced pup weights , and food consumption .
Pimavanserin had no effect on sexual maturation , neurobehavioral function including learning and memory , or reproductive function in the first generation pups up to 14 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
Pimavanserin was not teratogenic in pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis at oral doses of 4 . 3 , 43 , and 85 mg / kg / day , which are 0 . 2 - to 12 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
Maternal toxicity , including mortality , clinical signs of dyspnea and rales , decreases in body weight and / or food consumption , and abortions occurred at doses 12 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of pimavanserin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for NUPLAZID and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from NUPLAZID or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of NUPLAZID have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients .
Parkinson ' s disease is a disorder occurring primarily in individuals over 55 years of age .
The mean age of patients enrolled in the 6 - week clinical studies with NUPLAZID [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] was 71 years , with 49 % 65 - 75 years old and 31 % > 75 years old .
In the pooled population of patients enrolled in 6 - week , placebo - controlled studies ( N = 614 ) , 27 % had MMSE scores from 21 to 24 compared to 73 % with scores ≥ 25 .
No clinically meaningful differences in safety or effectiveness were noted between these two groups .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment for NUPLAZID is needed in patients with mild to severe renal impairment or end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) ; however , increased exposure ( Cmax and AUC ) to NUPLAZID occurred in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 30 mL / min , Cockcroft - Gault ) in a renal impairment study [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
NUPLAZID should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment and end stage renal disease .
In a renal impairment study , dialysis did not appear to significantly affect the concentrations of NUPLAZID [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment for NUPLAZID is recommended in patients with hepatic impairment based on the exposure differences observed in patients with and without hepatic impairment in a hepatic impairment study [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Other Specific Populations No dosage adjustment is required based on patient ' s age , sex , ethnicity , or weight .
These factors do not affect the pharmacokinetics of NUPLAZID [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance NUPLAZID is not a controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse NUPLAZID has not been systematically studied in humans for its potential for abuse , tolerance , or physical dependence .
While short - term , placebo - controlled and long - term , open - label clinical trials did not reveal increases in drug - seeking behavior , the limited experience from the clinical trials do not predict the extent to which a CNS - active drug will be misused , diverted , and / or abused once marketed .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Human Experience The pre - marketing clinical trials involving NUPLAZID in approximately 1200 subjects and patients do not provide information regarding symptoms with overdose .
In healthy subject studies , dose - limiting nausea and vomiting were observed .
10 . 2 Management of Overdose There are no known specific antidotes for NUPLAZID .
In managing overdose , cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous ECG monitoring to detect possible arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
If antiarrhythmic therapy is administered , disopyramide , procainamide , and quinidine should not be used , as they have the potential for QT - prolonging effects that might be additive to those of NUPLAZID [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Consider the long plasma half - life of pimavanserin ( about 57 hours ) and the possibility of multiple drug involvement .
Consult a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice .
11 DESCRIPTION NUPLAZID contains pimavanserin , an atypical antipsychotic , which is present as pimavanserin tartrate salt with the chemical name , urea , N - [ ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methyl ] - N - ( 1 - methyl - 4 - piperidinyl ) - N ' - [ [ 4 - ( 2 - methylpropoxy ) phenyl ] methyl ] - , ( 2 R , 3 R ) - 2 , 3 - dihydroxybutanedioate ( 2 : 1 ) .
Pimavanserin tartrate is freely soluble in water .
Its molecular formula is ( C25H34FN3O2 ) 2 ∙ C4H6O6 and its molecular weight is 1005 . 20 ( tartrate salt ) .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula of pimavanserin free base is C25H34FN3O2 and its molecular weight is 427 . 55 .
NUPLAZID capsules are intended for oral administration only .
Each capsule contains 40 mg of pimavanserin tartrate , which is equivalent to 34 mg of pimavanserin free base .
Inactive ingredients include magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
Additionally , the following inactive ingredients are present as components of the capsule shell : black iron oxide , FD & C blue # 1 , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
NUPLAZID tablets are intended for oral administration only .
Each round , orange , immediate - release , film coated tablet contains 11 . 8 mg of pimavanserin tartrate , which is equivalent to 10 mg pimavanserin free base .
Inactive ingredients include magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch , and silicified microcrystalline cellulose .
Additionally , the following inactive ingredients are present as components of the film coat : polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , red iron oxide , talc , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of pimavanserin in the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis is unclear .
However , the effect of pimavanserin could be mediated through a combination of inverse agonist and antagonist activity at serotonin 5 - HT2A receptors and to a lesser extent at serotonin 5 - HT2C receptors .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In vitro , pimavanserin acts as an inverse agonist and antagonist at serotonin 5 - HT2A receptors with high binding affinity ( Ki value 0 . 087 nM ) and at serotonin 5 - HT2C receptors with lower binding affinity ( Ki value 0 . 44 nM ) .
Pimavanserin shows low binding to sigma 1 receptors ( Ki value 120 nM ) and has no appreciable affinity ( Ki value > 300 nM ) , to serotonin 5 - HT2B , dopaminergic ( including D2 ) , muscarinic , histaminergic , or adrenergic receptors , or to calcium channels .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of NUPLAZID on the QTc interval was evaluated in a randomized placebo - and positive - controlled double - blind , multiple - dose parallel thorough QTc study in 252 healthy subjects .
A central tendency analysis of the QTc data at steady - state demonstrated that the maximum mean change from baseline ( upper bound of the two - sided 90 % CI ) was 13 . 5 ( 16 . 6 ) msec at a dose of twice the therapeutic dose .
A pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic analysis with NUPLAZID suggested a concentration - dependent QTc interval prolongation in the therapeutic range .
In the 6 - week , placebo - controlled effectiveness studies , mean increases in QTc interval of ~ 5 - 8 msec were observed in patients receiving once - daily doses of NUPLAZID 34 mg .
These data are consistent with the profile observed in a thorough QT study in healthy subjects .
Sporadic QTcF values ≥ 500 msec and change from baseline values ≥ 60 msec were observed in subjects treated with NUPLAZID 34 mg ; although the incidence was generally similar for NUPLAZID and placebo groups .
There were no reports of torsade de pointes or any differences from placebo in the incidence of other adverse reactions associated with delayed ventricular repolarization in studies of NUPLAZID , including those patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with PDP [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pimavanserin demonstrates dose - proportional pharmacokinetics after single oral doses from 17 to 255 mg ( 0 . 5 - to 7 . 5 - times the recommended dosage ) .
The pharmacokinetics of pimavanserin are similar in both the study population and healthy subjects .
The mean plasma half - lives for pimavanserin and the active metabolite ( N - desmethylated metabolite ) are approximately 57 hours and 200 hours , respectively .
Absorption The median Tmax of pimavanserin was 6 ( range 4 - 24 ) hours and was generally unaffected by dose .
The bioavailability of pimavanserin oral tablet and pimavanserin solution was essentially identical .
The formation of the major circulating N - desmethylated metabolite AC - 279 ( active ) from pimavanserin occurs with a median Tmax of 6 hours .
Administration of one 34 mg capsule once daily results in plasma pimavanserin concentrations that are similar to exposure with two 17 mg tablets once daily .
Effect of Food Ingestion of a high - fat meal had no significant effect on rate ( Cmax ) and extent ( AUC ) of pimavanserin exposure .
Cmax decreased by about 9 % while AUC increased by about 8 % with a high - fat meal .
Distribution Pimavanserin is highly protein bound ( ~ 95 % ) in human plasma .
Protein binding appeared to be dose - independent and did not change significantly over dosing time from Day 1 to Day 14 .
Following administration of a single dose of NUPLAZID ( 34 mg ) , the mean ( SD ) apparent volume of distribution was 2173 ( 307 ) L . Elimination Metabolism Pimavanserin is predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 and to a lesser extent by CYP2J2 , CYP2D6 , and various other CYP and FMO enzymes .
CYP3A4 is the major enzyme responsible for the formation of its major active metabolite ( AC - 279 ) .
Pimavanserin does not cause clinically significant CYP inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 .
Based on in vitro data , pimavanserin is not an irreversible inhibitor of any of the major hepatic and intestinal human CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism ( CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 ) .
Based on in vitro studies , transporters play no significant role in the disposition of pimavanserin .
AC - 279 is neither a reversible or irreversible ( metabolism - dependent ) inhibitor of any of the major hepatic and intestinal human CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism ( CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 ) .
AC - 279 does not cause clinically significant CYP3A induction and is not predicted to cause induction of any other CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism .
Excretion Approximately 0 . 55 % of the 34 mg oral dose of 14 C - pimavanserin was eliminated as unchanged drug in urine and 1 . 53 % was eliminated in feces after 10 days .
Less than 1 % of the administered dose of pimavanserin and its active metabolite AC - 279 were recovered in urine .
Specific Populations Population PK analysis indicated that age , sex , ethnicity , and weight do not have clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of pimavanserin .
In addition , the analysis indicated that exposure of pimavanserin in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment was similar to exposure in patients with normal renal function .
The effects of other intrinsic factors on pimavanserin pharmacokinetics is shown in Figure 1 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Figure 1 Effects of Intrinsic Factors on Pimavanserin Pharmacokinetics [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Less than 10 % of the administered dose of NUPLAZID was recovered in the dialysate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Interaction Studies CYP3A4 Inhibitor : ketoconazole , a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 , increased pimavanserin Cmax by 1 . 5 - fold and AUC by 3 - fold .
Population PK modeling and simulation show that steady - state exposure ( Cmax , ss and AUCtau ) for 10 mg pimavanserin with ketoconazole is similar to exposure for 34 mg pimavanserin alone [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inducer : In a clinical study where single doses of 34 mg pimavanserin were administered on Days 1 and 22 , and 600 mg rifampin , a strong inducer of CYP3A4 , was given daily on Days 15 through 21 , pimavanserin Cmax and AUC decreased by 71 % and 91 % , respectively , compared to pre - rifampin plasma concentrations .
In a simulation with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer ( efavirenz ) , physiologically based pharmacokinetic ( PBPK ) models predicted pimavanserin Cmax , ss and AUCtau at steady state decreased by approximately 60 % and 70 % , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
There is no effect of pimavanserin on the pharmacokinetics of midazolam , a CYP3A4 substrate , or carbidopa / levodopa as shown in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 Effects of Pimavanserin on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [ MULTIMEDIA ] * AUC and Cmax depict levodopa levels .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis There was no increase in the incidence of tumors following daily oral administration of pimavanserin to mice or rats for 2 years .
Mice were administered pimavanserin at oral doses of 2 . 6 , 6 , and 13 ( males ) / 8 . 5 , 21 , and 43 mg / kg / day ( females ) which are 0 . 01 - to 1 - ( males ) / 0 . 5 - to 7 - ( females ) times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
Rats were administered pimavanserin at oral doses of 2 . 6 , 8 . 5 , and 26 ( males ) / 4 . 3 , 13 , and 43 mg / kg / day ( females ) which are 0 . 01 - to 4 - ( males ) / 0 . 04 - to 16 - ( females ) times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
Mutagenesis Pimavanserin was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation test , or in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay , and was not clastogenic in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Pimavanserin was administered orally to male and female rats before mating , through mating , and up to Day 7 of gestation at doses of 8 . 5 , 51 , and 77 mg / kg / day , which are approximately 2 - , 15 - , and 22 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 34 mg / day based on mg / m2 , respectively .
Pimavanserin had no effect on fertility or reproductive performance in male and female rats at doses up to 22 - times the MRHD of 34 mg based on mg / m2 .
Changes in uterine parameters ( decreases in the number of corpora lutea , number of implants , viable implants , and increases in pre - implantation loss , early resorptions and post - implantation loss ) occurred at the highest dose which was also a maternally toxic dose .
Changes in sperm parameters ( decreased density and motility ) and microscopic findings of cytoplasmic vacuolation in the epididymis occurred at doses approximately 15 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on mg / m2 .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Phospholipidosis ( foamy macrophages and / or cytoplasmic vacuolation ) was observed in multiple tissues and organs of mice , rats , and monkeys following oral daily administration of pimavanserin .
The occurrence of phospholipidosis was both dose - and duration - dependent .
The most severely affected organs were the lungs and kidneys .
In rats , diffuse phospholipidosis was associated with increased lung and kidney weights , respiratory - related clinical signs including rales , labored breathing , and gasping , renal tubular degeneration , and , in some animals , focal / multifocal chronic inflammation in the lungs at exposures ≥ 10 - times those at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
Phospholipidosis caused mortality in rats at exposures ≥ 16 - times the MRHD of 34 mg / day based on AUC .
The chronic inflammation in the rat lung was characterized by minimal to mild focal collagen positive fibroplasia as shown by specialized staining .
Chronic inflammation of the lungs was not seen in monkeys treated for 12 months ( exposures 9 - times the MRHD ) .
Based on the exposures at the estimated No Observed Effect Level ( NOEL ) for chronic lung inflammation in rats , there is a 5 - to 9 - times safety margin after 6 - months of treatment and a 2 - to 4 - times safety margin after 24 - months ( lifetime ) treatment compared to exposure at the MRHD .
The relevance of these findings to human risk is not clear .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of NUPLAZID 34 mg as a treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson ' s disease psychosis was demonstrated in a 6 - week , randomized , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study .
In this outpatient study , 199 patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to NUPLAZID 34 mg or placebo once daily .
Study patients ( male or female and aged 40 years or older ) had a diagnosis of Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) established at least 1 year prior to study entry and had psychotic symptoms ( hallucinations and / or delusions ) that started after the PD diagnosis and that were severe and frequent enough to warrant treatment with an antipsychotic .
At entry , patients were required to have a Mini - Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) score ≥ 21 and to be able to self - report symptoms .
The majority of patients were on PD medications at entry ; these medications were required to be stable for at least 30 days prior to study start and throughout the study period .
The PD - adapted Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms ( SAPS - PD ) was used to evaluate the efficacy of NUPLAZID 34 mg .
SAPS - PD is a 9 - item scale adapted for PD from the Hallucinations and Delusions domains of the SAPS .
Each item is scored on a scale of 0 - 5 , with 0 being none and 5 representing severe and frequent symptoms .
Therefore , the SAPS - PD total score can range from 0 to 45 with higher scores reflecting greater severity of illness .
A negative change in score indicates improvement .
Primary efficacy was evaluated based on change from baseline to Week 6 in SAPS - PD total score .
As shown in Table 3 , Figure 3 , and Figure 4 , NUPLAZID 34 mg ( n = 95 ) was statistically significantly superior to placebo ( n = 90 ) in decreasing the frequency and / or severity of hallucinations and delusions in patients with PDP as measured by central , independent , and blinded raters using the SAPS - PD scale .
An effect was seen on both the hallucinations and delusions components of the SAPS - PD .
Table 3 Primary Efficacy Analysis Result Based on SAPS - PD ( N = 185 ) Endpoint Treatment Group Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Difference [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval .
SAPS - PD NUPLAZID 15 . 9 ( 6 . 12 ) - 5 . 79 ( 0 . 66 ) - 3 . 06 [ 2 ] ( - 4 . 91 , - 1 . 20 ) Placebo 14 . 7 ( 5 . 55 ) - 2 . 73 ( 0 . 67 ) -- SAPS - PD Hallucinations [ 3 ] NUPLAZID 11 . 1 ( 4 . 58 ) - 3 . 81 ( 0 . 46 ) - 2 . 01 ( - 3 . 29 , - 0 . 72 ) Placebo 10 . 0 ( 3 . 80 ) - 1 . 80 ( 0 . 46 ) -- SAPS - PD Delusions null NUPLAZID 4 . 8 ( 3 . 59 ) - 1 . 95 ( 0 . 32 ) - 0 . 94 ( - 1 . 83 , - 0 . 04 ) Placebo 4 . 8 ( 3 . 82 ) - 1 . 01 ( 0 . 32 ) -- [ 1 ] Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
[ 2 ] Statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ 3 ] Supportive analysis .
The effect of NUPLAZID on SAPS - PD improved through the six - week trial period , as shown in Figure 3 .
Figure 3 SAPS - PD Change from Baseline through 6 Weeks Total Study Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 Proportion of Patients with SAPS - PD Score Improvement at the End of Week 6 ( N = 185 ) Complete response = SAPS - PD score reduced to zero from baseline value .
Patients with missing values were counted as non - responders .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Motor Function in Patients with Hallucinations and Delusions Associated with Parkinson ' s Disease Psychosis NUPLAZID 34 mg did not show an effect compared to placebo on motor function , as measured using the Unified Parkinson ' s Disease Rating Scale Parts II and III ( UPDRS Parts II + III ) ( Figure 5 ) .
A negative change in score indicates improvement .
The UPDRS Parts II + III was used to assess the patient ' s Parkinson ' s disease state during the 6 - week double - blind treatment period .
The UPDRS score was calculated as the sum of the 40 items from activities of daily living and motor examination , with a range of 0 to 160 .
LSM : least - squares mean ; SE : standard error .
The error bars extend one SE below the LSM .
Figure 5 Motor Function Change from Baseline to Week 6 in UPDRS Parts II + III ( LSM - SE ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NUPLAZID ( pimavanserin ) is available as : 34 mg Capsule : Opaque white and light green capsule with " PIMA " and " 34 " printed in black .
Bottle of 30 : NDC 63090 - 340 - 30 10 mg Tablet : Orange , round , coated tablet debossed with " P " on one side and " 10 " on the reverse .
Bottle of 30 : NDC 63090 - 100 - 30 Storage 34 mg Capsule : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
To prevent potential capsule color fading , protect from light .
10 mg Tablet : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Concomitant Medication Advise patients to inform their healthcare providers if there are any changes to their current prescription or over - the - counter medications , since there is a potential for drug interactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients to take the capsule whole or sprinkled over a tablespoon ( 15 mL ) of applesauce , yogurt , pudding , or a liquid nutritional supplement .
Advise patients to consume the drug / food mixture immediately and not to store for future use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc .
San Diego , CA 92130 USA NUPLAZID ® is a trademark of Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc .
© 2020 Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc .
All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 34 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 63090 - 340 - 30 34 mg NUPLAZID ® ( pimavanserin ) capsules 34 mg per capsule Rx only 30 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 63090 - 100 - 30 10 mg NUPLAZID ® ( pimavanserin ) tablets 10 mg per tablet Rx only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
