Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison control centre right away Drug Facts active ingredients octinoxate 7 . 5 % purpose sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age ask a doctor sun protectin measures spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
to decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscree with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including limit time in the sun especially from 10 am to 2 pm , wear long sleeved shirtss , pants , hats and sunglasses protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun do not store above 30 degrees C or 86 degrees F Bright beautiful and uplifted A luminating foundation which has been formulated with a polymer to help appear to visibly lift and give firmer feeling skin .
Our pro retinol complex containing lipopeptides boosts and maintains elasticity .
It also contains a brightening complex to give skin a long term boost for even skin tone .
Powerful antioxidants , vitamins C and E and SPF 15 help protect against the aging effects of free radicals .
Minimises the appearance of age spots , pores and pigmentation .
For best results belend smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
Hypoallergenic .
Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our foundation products are hypoallergenic so they are kind to even the most sensitive skin .
inactive ingredients aqua ( water ) , cyclopentasiloxane , glycerin , talc , mica , lecithin , ethylhexyl stearate , trihydroxystearin , disteardimonium hectorite , cyclohexasiloxane , dimethicone crosspolymer , dimethicone , magnresium sulfate , ascorbyl glucoside , phenoxyethanol , butylene glycol , PEG PPG 18 / 18 dimethicone , tocopheryl acetate , phenyl trimethicone , propylene carbonate , actinidia chinensis ( kiwi ) fruit water , cetyl PEG / PPG 10 / 1 dimethicone , hexyl laurate , polyglyceryl 4 isostearate , methylparaben , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel extract , ethylparaben , potassium hydroxide , retinyl palmitate , triethyoxycaprylylsilane , sodium hyaluronate , alcohol , lupinus albus seed extract , carbomer , sophora angustifolia root extract , polysorbate 20 , BHT , ethylhexylglycerin , ascorbic acid , tocopherol , palmitoyl oligopeptide , palmitoyl tetrapeptide7 , may contain CI 77891 ( titanium dioxide ) , CI 77492 ( iron oxides ) , CI 77491 ( iron oxides ) , CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) USA Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist by Boots Retail USA Inc Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in France www . Boots . Com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
