Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses Uses for Oral Laxative • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a Doctor before use Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquie with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Inactive ingredients None Epsom Salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises .
Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or towelling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by Vi - Jon , LLC One Swan Drive Smyrna , TN 37167 principal display panel Mountain Falls Naturally derived For a soothing , relaxing bath , add to warm bath Reduce stiffness and soreness Warm and comfort your muscle aches Epsom Salt magnesium sulfate USP saline laxative for relief of occasional constipation soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises NET WT 1 LB ( 454 g ) www . mymountainfalls . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal .
NDC 0869 - 002 - 07 swan Epsom Salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . • SALINE LAXATIVE - For Relief of Occasional Constipation • SOAKING SOLUTION - For Minor Sprains & Bruises NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
