Active ingredient Zinc Oxide ........ 13 . 0 % Purpose Skin Protectant Uses • • helps treat and prevent diaper rash • • protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • • do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens • • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • change wet and soiled diapers promptly • • cleanse the diaper area • • allow to dry • • apply cream liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change , especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Other Information • • store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients water , petrolatum , mineral oil , PEG - 30 dipolyhydroxysterate , microcrystalline wax , dimethicone , beeswax , sorbitan sesquioleate , magnesium sulfate , phenoxyethanol , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , fragrance , methylparaben , propylparaben , aloe barbadensis leaf juice .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel meijer baby quick relief diaper rash cream With zinc oxide Helps to heal , soothe & prevent diaper rash * Compare to Desitin ® Rapid Relief Creamy Zinc Oxide Diaper Rash Cream ingredients NET WT .
4 OZ .
( 113 G ) Quick Relief Diaper Rash Cream provides relief from the very first use by immediately forming a protective layer on your baby ' s delicate skin to soothe and relieve discomfort caused by diaper rash .
This creamy , dermatologist - tested and hypoallergenic formula goes on smoothly and wipes off easily , to protect and treat diaper rash providing relief you baby can feel .
DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC . 2929 WALKER AVE . NW GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com Manufactured in Israel 0D827 6 E C1 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson ® Consumer Products Company , owner of the registered trademark Desitin ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
