Use in Specific Populations , Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) 6 / 2007 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Timolol GFS 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % are indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
Timolol GFS is a beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of Timolol GFS ( either 0 . 25 % or 0 . 5 % ) in the affected eye ( s ) once daily .
It may be used alone or in combination with other intraocular pressure lowering medications .
• Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 5 mL size bottle filled with 2 . 5 mL or 5 mL of 0 . 25 % or 0 . 5 % sterile ophthalmic gel forming solution • 5 mL size bottle filled with 2 . 5 mL or 5 mL of 0 . 25 % or 0 . 5 % sterile ophthalmic gel forming solution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Timolol GFS is contraindicated in patients with : • bronchial asthma • history of bronchial asthma • severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease • sinus bradycardia • second or third degree atrioventricular block • overt cardiac failure • cardiogenic shock • hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
• Bronchial asthma ( or history of ) ( 4 ) • Severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 4 ) • Sinus bradycardia ( 4 ) • Second or third degree atrioventricular block ( 4 ) • Overt cardiac failure ( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may occur with topical ophthalmic administration ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia and should be administered with caution in diabetic patients subject to hypoglycemia ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism ( 5 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 General As with many topically applied ophthalmic drugs , this drug is absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may occur with topical ophthalmic administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and death due to cardiac failure , have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
In patients without a history of cardiac failure , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , Timolol GFS should be discontinued .
5 . 3 Bronchospasm and Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Bronchospasm may occur .
Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) of mild or moderate severity , bronchospastic disease , or a history of bronchospastic disease ( other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma , in which Timolol GFS is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] ) should , in general , not receive beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors , including Timolol GFS .
5 . 4 Surgical Anesthesia The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors have experienced protracted , severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
In patients undergoing elective surgery , consider gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may be reversed by sufficient doses of adrenergic agonists .
5 . 5 Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors should be administered with caution in diabetic patients subject to hypoglycemia who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
5 . 6 Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors that might precipitate a thyroid storm .
5 . 7 Cerebrovascular Insufficiency Because of potential effects of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors on blood pressure and pulse , these agents should be used with caution in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow develop following initiation of therapy with Timolol GFS , alternative therapy should be considered .
5 . 8 Bacterial Keratitis Bacterial keratitis may occur with use of multiple dose containers of topical ophthalmic products when these containers are inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
Instruct patients on appropriate instillation techniques [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 9 Choroidal Detachment Choroidal detachment after filtration procedures has been reported with the administration of aqueous suppressant ( e . g . , timolol ) therapy .
5 . 10 Angle - Closure Glaucoma In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate objective of treatment is to reopen the angle .
This may require constricting the pupil .
Timolol GFS has little or no effect on the pupil and should not be used alone in the treatment of angle - closure glaucoma .
5 . 11 Atopy / Anaphylaxis While taking beta receptor inhibitors , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
5 . 12 Muscle Weakness Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Timolol has been reported to increase muscle weakness in some patients with myasthenia gravis or myasthenic symptoms .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions occur upon instillation and include transient blurred vision , burning , and stinging ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials with Timolol GFS , transient blurred vision upon instillation of the drop was reported in approximately one in three patients .
The frequency of patients reporting burning and stinging upon instillation was approximately one in eight patients which was comparable to that observed for TIMOPTIC * .
Adverse reactions reported in 1 - 5 % of patients were : Ocular : Blepharitis , conjunctivitis , crusting , discomfort , foreign body sensation , hyperemia , pruritus and tearing ; Systemic : Headache , hypertension , and upper respiratory infections .
In a 3 - month , double - masked , active - controlled , multicenter study in pediatric patients , the adverse reactions profile of Timolol GFS 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % was comparable to that seen in adult patients .
6 . 2 Additional Potential Adverse Reactions Associated with Timolol Maleate The following additional adverse experiences have been reported with the ocular administration of this or other timolol maleate formulations : BODY AS A WHOLE Asthenia / fatigue and chest pain .
CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia , arrhythmia , hypotension , hypertension , syncope , heart block , cerebral vascular accident , cerebral ischemia , cardiac failure , worsening of angina pectoris , palpitation , cardiac arrest , pulmonary edema , dizziness , edema , claudication , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , and cold hands and feet .
DIGESTIVE Nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , anorexia , and dry mouth .
IMMUNOLOGIC Systemic lupus erythematosus .
NERVOUS SYSTEM / PSYCHIATRIC Increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis , paresthesia , somnolence , insomnia , nightmares , behavioral changes and psychic disturbances including confusion , hallucinations , anxiety , depression , disorientation , nervousness , and memory loss .
SKIN Alopecia and psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis .
HYPERSENSITIVITY Signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria and localized and generalized rash .
RESPIRATORY Bronchospasm ( predominantly in patients with pre - existing bronchospastic disease ) , respiratory failure , dyspnea , nasal congestion , and cough .
ENDOCRINE Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
SPECIAL SENSES Signs and symptoms of ocular irritation including blepharitis , keratitis , and dry eyes ; ptosis ; decreased corneal sensitivity ; cystoid macular edema ; visual disturbances including refractive changes and diplopia ; pseudopemphigoid ; choroidal detachment following filtration surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] ; and tinnitus .
UROGENITAL Retroperitoneal fibrosis , decreased libido , impotence and Peyronie ' s disease .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Oral beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may have additive effects ( 7 . 1 ) • Digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects ( 7 . 2 ) • Catecholamine - depleting drugs may have additive effects ( 7 . 3 ) • Quinidine may have additive effects ( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Oral Beta - Adrenergic Receptor Inhibitors Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic receptor inhibiting agent orally and Timolol GFS should be observed for potential additive effects of beta - blockade , both systemic and on intraocular pressure .
Patients should not usually receive two topical ophthalmic beta - adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents concurrently .
7 . 2 Digitalis and Calcium Antagonists The concomitant use of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
Caution should be used in the co - administration of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors , such as Timolol GFS , and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure , or hypotension .
In patients with impaired cardiac function , co - administration should be avoided .
7 . 3 Catecholamine - Depleting Drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta receptor inhibitor is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may result in vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
7 . 4 Quinidine Potentiated systemic beta - blockade ( e . g . , decreased heart rate ) has been reported during combined treatment with quinidine and timolol , possibly because quinidine inhibits the metabolism of timolol via the P - 450 enzyme , CYP2D6 .
7 . 5 Clonidine Oral beta - adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
There have been no reports of exacerbation of rebound hypertension with ophthalmic timolol maleate .
7 . 6 Injectable Epinephrine [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C : Teratogenicity studies with timolol in mice , rats , and rabbits at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 7 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) demonstrated no evidence of fetal malformations .
Although delayed fetal ossification was observed at this dose in rats , there were no adverse effects on postnatal development of offspring .
Doses of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 142 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were maternotoxic in mice and resulted in an increased number of fetal resorptions .
Increased fetal resorptions were also seen in rabbits at doses of 14 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose , in this case without apparent maternotoxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Timolol GFS should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Timolol maleate has been detected in human milk following oral and ophthalmic drug administration .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Timolol GFS , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and IOP - lowering effect of Timolol GFS 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % has been demonstrated in pediatric patients in a 3 - month , multicenter , double - masked , active - controlled trial .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE No data are available with regard to human overdose with , or accidental oral ingestion of Timolol GFS .
There have been reports of inadvertent overdose with Timolol maleate ophthalmic solution resulting in systemic effects similar to those seen with systemic beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors such as dizziness , headache , shortness of breath , bradycardia , bronchospasm , and cardiac arrest [ see also Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Overdosage has been reported with timolol maleate tablets .
A 30 - year old female ingested 650 mg of timolol maleate tablets ( maximum recommended oral daily dose is 60 mg ) and experienced second and third degree heart block .
She recovered without treatment but approximately two months later developed irregular heartbeat , hypertension , dizziness , tinnitus , faintness , increased pulse rate , and borderline first degree heart block .
An in vitro hemodialysis study , using 14 C timolol added to human plasma or whole blood , showed that timolol was readily dialyzed from these fluids ; however , a study of patients with renal failure showed that timolol did not dialyze readily .
11 DESCRIPTION Timolol GFS ( timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution ) is a non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor .
Its chemical name is ( - ) - 1 - ( tert - butylamino ) - 3 - [ ( 4 - morpholino - 1 , 2 , 5 - thia diazol - 3 - yl ) oxy ] - 2 - propanol maleate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Timolol maleate possesses an asymmetric carbon atom in its structure and is provided at the levo - isomer .
The nominal optical rotation of timolol maleate is : [ α ] 25 ° in 0 . 1 N HCl ( C = 5 % ) = - 12 . 2 ° 405 nm Its molecular formula is C13H24N4O3S · C4H4O4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Timolol maleate has a molecular weight of 432 . 50 .
It is a white , odorless , crystalline powder which is soluble in water , methanol , and alcohol .
Timolol GFS is a colorless to nearly colorless , slightly opalescent , and slightly viscous , is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , aqueous topical ophthalmic solution of timolol maleate in two dosage strengths .
Timolol GFS has a pH of approximately 6 . 9 and an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsmol / kg .
Each mL of Timolol GFS 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of timolol ( 3 . 4 mg of timolol maleate ) .
Each mL of Timolol GFS 0 . 5 % contains 5 . 0 mg of timolol ( 6 . 8 mg of timolol maleate ) .
Inactive ingredients : xanthan gum , tromethamine , boric acid , mannitol , polysorbate - 80 , and purified water .
Preservative : benzododecinium bromide 0 . 012 % .
Xanthan gum is a purified high molecular weight polysaccharide gum produced from the fermentation by bacterium Xanthomonas campestris .
An aqueous solution of xanthan gum , in the presence of tear protein ( lysozyme ) , forms a gel .
Upon contact with the precorneal tear film , Timolol GFS forms a gel that is subsequently removed by the flow of tears .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Timolol maleate is a beta1 and beta2 ( non - selective ) adrenergic receptor inhibitor that does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic , direct myocardial depressant , or local anesthetic ( membrane - stabilizing ) activity .
Timolol GFS , when applied topically to the eye , has the action of reducing elevated , as well as normal , intraocular pressure , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous visual field loss and optic nerve damage .
The precise mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of Timolol GFS is not clearly established at this time .
Tonography and fluorophotometry studies of Timolol GFS in man suggest that its predominant action may be related to reduced aqueous formation .
However , in some studies , a slight increase in outflow facility was also observed .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade reduces cardiac output in both healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may inhibit the stimulatory effect of the sympathetic nervous system necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade in the bronchi and bronchioles results in increased airway resistance from unopposed parasympathetic activities .
Such an effect in patients with asthma or other bronchospastic conditions is potentially dangerous .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Because in some patients the intraocular pressure - lowering response to Timolol GFS may require a few weeks to stabilize , evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with Timolol GFS .
If the patient ' s intraocular pressure is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy can be considered .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following topical ocular administration of timolol to humans , low concentrations of drug are found in plasma .
After bilateral administration of a 0 . 5 % timolol maleate solution to healthy volunteers , maximum plasma concentrations were generally below 5 ng / mL .
Dosages higher than one drop of 0 . 5 % Timolol GFS once daily have not been studied .
Pharmacokinetic studies in humans using this gel forming solution formulation were not performed .
However , systemic uptake from a gel matrix is expected to be slower than from a non - gel forming solution based on studies using other gel forming solutions .
The maximum plasma timolol concentration from the gel forming drop is not expected to exceed those of the 0 . 5 % timolol maleate solution .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two - year study of timolol maleate administered orally to rats , there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of adrenal pheochromocytomas in male rats administered 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 42 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Similar differences were not observed in rats administered oral doses equivalent to approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
In a lifetime oral study in mice , there were statistically significant increases in the incidence of benign and malignant pulmonary tumors , benign uterine polyps , and mammary adenocarcinomas in female mice at 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 71 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) , but not at 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 700 or 7 , 000 , respectively , times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
In a subsequent study in female mice , in which postmortem examinations were limited to the uterus and the lungs , a statistically significant increase in the incidence of pulmonary tumors was again observed at 500 mg / kg / day .
The increased occurrence of mammary adenocarcinomas was associated with elevations in serum prolactin , which occurred in female mice administered oral timolol at 500 mg / kg / day , but not at oral doses of 5 or 50 mg / kg / day .
An increased incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas in rodents has been associated with administration of several other therapeutic agents that elevate serum prolactin , but no correlation between serum prolactin levels and mammary tumors has been established in humans .
Furthermore , in adult human female subjects who received oral dosages of up to 60 mg of timolol maleate ( the maximum recommended human oral dosage ) , there were no clinically meaningful changes in serum prolactin .
Timolol maleate was devoid of mutagenic potential when tested in vivo ( mouse ) in the micronucleus test and cytogenetic assay ( doses up to 800 mg ) and in vitro in a neoplastic cell transformation assay ( up to 100 mcg / mL ) .
In Ames tests , the highest concentrations of timolol employed , 5 , 000 or 10 , 000 mcg / plate , were associated with statistically significant elevations of revertants observed with tester strain TA 100 ( in seven replicate assays ) , but not in the remaining three strains .
In the assays with tester strain TA 100 , no consistent dose - response relationship was observed , and the ratio of test to control revertants did not reach 2 .
A ratio of 2 is usually considered the criterion for a positive Ames test .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats demonstrated no adverse effect on male or female fertility at doses up to 21 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In controlled , double - masked , multicenter clinical studies , Timolol GFS administered once daily was compared to equivalent concentrations of TIMOPTIC * ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) [ Merck and Co . , Inc . ] administered twice daily .
Timolol GFS once daily was shown to be equally effective in lowering intraocular pressure as the equivalent concentration of TIMOPTIC administered twice daily .
The effect of timolol in lowering intraocular pressure was evident for 24 hours with a single dose of Timolol GFS .
Repeated observations over a three - month study period indicate that the intraocular pressure - lowering effect of Timolol GFS was consistent .
The results from the clinical trials are shown in the following figures .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Timolol GFS administered once daily had a safety profile similar to that of an equivalent concentration of TIMOPTIC administered twice daily .
Due to the physical characteristics of the formulation , transient blurred vision was reported more frequently in patients administered Timolol GFS [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Timolol GFS has not been studied in patients wearing contact lenses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Timolol GFS , 0 . 25 % timolol equivalent and 0 . 5 % timolol equivalent , are both supplied as either a 2 . 5 mL or 5 mL solution in a 5 mL white polyethylene bottle with a natural polyethylene dropper tip and a yellow polypropylene overcap .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the DROP - TAINER ® ** package .
• 0 . 25 % 2 . 5 mL fill NDC 61314 - 224 - 25 5 mL fill NDC 61314 - 224 - 05 • 0 . 5 % 2 . 5 mL fill NDC 61314 - 225 - 25 5 mL fill NDC 61314 - 225 - 05 Storage and Handling Store at 2 ° to 25 ° C ( 36 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION How to Use The DROP - TAINER ® Bottle The DROP - TAINER ® bottle is designed to assure the delivery of a precise dose of medication .
Before using your DROP - TAINER ® bottle , read the complete instructions carefully .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
If you use other topically applied ophthalmic medications , they should be administered at least 10 minutes before Timolol GFS .
2 .
Wash hands before each use .
3 .
Before using the medication for the first time , be sure the Safety Seal on the bottle is unbroken .
4 .
Tear off the Safety Seal to break the seal .
5 .
Before each use , shake once and remove the screw cap .
6 .
Invert the bottle and hold the bottle between your thumb and middle finger , with the tips of the fingers pointing towards you .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 .
Tilt your head back and position the bottle above the affected eye .
DO NOT TOUCH THE EYE WITH THE TIP OF THE DROPPER .
8 .
With the opposite hand , place a finger under the eye .
Gently pull down until a " V " pocket is made between your eye and lower lid .
9 .
With the hand holding the bottle , place your index finger on the bottom of the bottle .
Push the bottom of the bottle to dispense one drop of medication .
DO NOT SQUEEZE THE SIDES OF THE BOTTLE .
10 .
Repeat 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 with other eye if instructed to do so .
11 .
Replace screw cap by turning until firmly touching the bottle .
Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye ( s ) or surrounding structures .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular solutions , if handled improperly , could become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye ( s ) and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
[ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Patients should be advised that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
Patients should be instructed to invert the closed container and shake once before each use .
It is not necessary to shake the container more than once .
Patients requiring concomitant topical ophthalmic medications should be instructed to administer these at least 10 minutes before instilling Timolol GFS .
Patients with bronchial asthma , a history of bronchial asthma , severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , sinus bradycardia , second or third degree atrioventricular block , or cardiac failure should be advised not to take this product [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Patients should be advised that transient blurred vision or visual disturbance , generally lasting from 30 seconds to 5 minutes , following instillation may impair the ability to perform hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
* TIMOPTIC is a Registered trademark of Merck & Co . , Inc .
** DROP - TAINER ® is a registered trademark of Alcon Research , Ltd .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 9007201 - 1011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61314 - 224 - 05 Timolol GFS Timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution 0 . 25 % Rx only STERILE 5 mL SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61314 - 225 - 05 Timolol GFS Timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution 0 . 5 % Rx only STERILE 5 mL SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
