Descripton : Pre - Tabs DHA combination tablet - capsule for oral administration is a light blue capsule - shaped film coated tablet with a pleasant sweet flavor with WC001 imprinted on one side of the tablet and a light amber soft gel capsule omega - 3 fatty acid containing both DHA and EPA .
Indications and Usage : Pre - Tabs DHA is indicated to provide vitamin / mineral and omega - 3 fatty acid supplementation to women throughout pregnancy , during the postnatal for both lactating and nonlactating mothers .
Pre - Tabs DHA is also beneficial in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception .
Contraindications : This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Warnings : Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega - fatty acids per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects , including increased bleeding time and INR .
Administration of omega - 3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients on anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired bleeding diathesis .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
Warnings : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where B12 is deficient .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
Precautions : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
This product contains formate , which if consumed above the recommended level , could cause visual impairment and other health effects .
Do not take more than the recommended amount .
If you are pregnant , nursing , or taking any medications consult your doctor before use .
Discontinue use and consult your doctor if any adverse reactions occur .
Not intended for use by persons under the age of 18 .
Adverse Reactions : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Dosage and Administration : Pre - Tabs DHA - One tablet and one soft gel capsule daily or as directed by a physician .
How Supplied : Pre - Tabs DHA tablets for oral administration are supplied as six child - resistant blister cards containing 5 tablets and 5 softgel capsules each ( NDC # 48648 - 406 - 30 ) .
Pre - Tabs DHA Prenatal Multi - vitamin / Mineral Supplement Gluten Free NDC 48948 - 406 - 30 ( 30 count ) 6 blister cards each containing 5 tablets and 5 capsules 877 - 774 - 4949 www . dermetrx . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
