Dosage and Administration Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container ( 2 . 3 ) 10 / 2020 Recommended Dosage and Monitoring in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2 . 5 ) 10 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zinc Sulfate Injection is indicated in adult and pediatric patients as a source of zinc for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Zinc Sulfate Injection is a trace element indicated in adult and pediatric patients as a source of zinc for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Not for direct intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration , and general dosing considerations .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) Recommended Dosage and Monitoring ( 2 . 5 ) • Zinc Sulfate Injection provides 3 mg / mL , or 5 mg / mL of zinc .
• Zinc Sulfate Injection in a concentration of 1 mg / mL is recommended for use in pediatric patients , particularly those weighing less than 12 kg .
• Individualize the dosage based upon the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and the contribution of oral or enteral zinc intake .
o Adults : The recommended adult dosage is 3 mg / day for metabolically stable patients , with potential need for a higher daily dosage in monitored patients with small bowel fluid loss or excess stool or ileostomy output .
o Pediatrics : The recommended dosage in pediatric patients is shown by age and estimated weight .
The dosages in the table are general recommendations intended for most pediatric patients .
However , based on clinical requirements , some patients may require a higher dosage .
Population Estimated Weight for Age Recommended Daily Dosage Pediatric Patients 10 kg and above 50 mcg / kg ( up to 3 mg / day ) 5 kg to less than 10 kg 100 mcg / kg Term Neonates 3 kg to less than 5 kg 250 mcg / kg * Preterm Neonates Less than 3 kg 400 mcg / kg * Term neonates have higher requirements in the first 3 months of life • Monitor zinc concentrations and signs and symptoms of zinc deficiency , especially in pediatric patients , during treatment .
Zinc concentrations may vary depending on the assay used and the laboratory reference range .
The collection , processing , and storage of the blood samples for zinc analysis should be performed according to the laboratory ’ s sample requirements .
Zinc concentrations in hemolyzed samples are falsely elevated due to release of zinc from erythrocytes .
The lower end of the reported range in healthy adults in serum is 60 mcg / dL .
2 . 1 Important Administration Information Zinc Sulfate Injection is supplied as a pharmacy bulk package for admixing use only .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , Zinc Sulfate Injection must be transferred to a separate parenteral nutrition container , diluted and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solutions .
The final parenteral nutrition solution is for intravenous infusion into a central or peripheral vein .
The choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions • Zinc Sulfate Injection is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , Zinc Sulfate Injection must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solutions .
• Zinc Sulfate Injection is to be prepared only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
The key factor in the preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and addition of other nutrients .
• Visually inspect the diluted parenteral nutrition solution containing Zinc Sulfate Injection for particulate matter before admixing , after admixing , and prior to administration .
2 . 3 Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container • Inspect Zinc Sulfate Injection Bulk Pharmacy Package for particulate matter .
• Transfer Zinc Sulfate Injection to the parenteral nutrition container following the admixture of amino acids , dextrose , lipid emulsion ( if added ) , and electrolytes solutions .
• Because additives may be incompatible , evaluate all additions to the parenteral nutrition container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If it is deemed advisable to introduce additives to the parenteral nutrition container , use aseptic technique .
• Inspect the final parenteral nutrition solution containing Zinc Sulfate Injection to ensure that : o Precipitates have not formed during mixing or addition on additives .
o The emulsion has not separated , if lipid emulsion has been added .
Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion .
o Discard if any precipitates are observed .
Stability and Storage • Penetrate vial closure only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
• Use Zinc Sulfate Injection for admixing promptly once the sterile transfer set has been inserted into the Pharmacy Bulk Package container or not more than 4 hours at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ( 25ºC / 77ºF ) after the container closure has been penetrated .
Discard any remaining drug .
• Use parenteral nutrition solutions containing Zinc Sulfate Injection promptly after mixing .
Any storage of the admixture should be under refrigeration from 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) and limited to a period of time no longer than 9 days .
After removal from refrigeration , use promptly and complete the infusion within 24 hours .
Discard any remaining admixture .
• Protect the admixed parenteral nutrition solution from light .
2 . 4 Dosing Considerations • The dosage of the final parenteral nutrition solution containing Zinc Sulfate Injection must be based on the concentrations of all components in the solution and the recommended daily nutritional requirements [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Consult the prescribing information of all added components to determine the recommended nutritional requirements for dextrose and lipid emulsion , as applicable .
• Prior to administration of parenteral nutrition solution containing Zinc Sulfate Injection , correct severe fluid , electrolyte and acid - base disorders .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage and Monitoring in Adult and Pediatric Patients • Zinc Sulfate Injection provides 3 mg / mL , or 5 mg / mL of zinc .
• Zinc Sulfate Injection in a concentration of 1 mg / mL is recommended for use in pediatric patients , particularly those weighing less than 12 kg .
• The dosage of Zinc Sulfate Injection should be individualized based on the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and the contribution of oral or enteral zinc intake .
Adults The recommended adult dosage is 3 mg / day for metabolically stable patients , with potential need for a higher daily dosage in monitored patients with small bowel fluid loss or excess stool or ileostomy output .
Pediatric Patients The recommended pediatric dosage is shown in Table 1 by age and estimated weight .
The dosages in Table 1 are general recommendations intended for most pediatric patients .
However , based on clinical requirements , some patients may require a higher dosage .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage of Zinc Sulfate Injection for Pediatric Patients by Age and Estimated Weight Population Estimated Weight for Age Recommended Daily Dosage Pediatric Patients 10 kg and above 50 mcg / kg ( up to 3 mg / day ) 5 kg to less than 10 kg 100 mcg / kg Term Neonates 3 kg to less than 5 kg 250 mcg / kg * Preterm Neonates Less than 3 kg 400 mcg / kg * Term neonates have higher requirements in the first 3 months of life Monitoring Monitor zinc concentrations during treatment .
Also monitor patients clinically for signs and symptoms of zinc deficiency , especially in pediatrics .
Zinc concentrations may vary depending on the assay used and the laboratory reference range .
The collection , processing , and storage of the blood samples for zinc analysis should be performed according to the laboratory ’ s sample requirements .
Zinc concentrations in hemolyzed samples are falsely elevated due to release of zinc from erythrocytes .
The lower end of the reported range in healthy adults in serum is 60 mcg / dL .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP : • 30 mg / 10 mL ( 3 mg / mL ) of zinc as a clear , colorless solution in a 10 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial .
• 25 mg / 5 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) of zinc as a clear , colorless solution in a 5 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial .
Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP : • 30 mg / 10 mL ( 3 mg / mL ) of zinc as a Pharmacy Bulk Package vial .
( 3 ) • 25 mg / 5 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) of zinc as a Pharmacy Bulk Package vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zinc Sulfate Injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to zinc [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to zinc ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates : If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or more must be infused through a central catheter .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • Aluminum Toxicity : Increase risk in patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 4 ) • Monitoring and Laboratory Tests : Monitor fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count and coagulation parameters throughout treatment .
( 5 . 4 , 2 . 4 ) • Copper Deficiency : If signs and symptoms develop , interrupt treatment with Zinc Sulfate Injection and check zinc , copper , and ceruloplasmin levels .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : If reactions occur , discontinue Zinc Sulfate Injection and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates Pulmonary vascular precipitates causing pulmonary vascular emboli and pulmonary distress have been reported in patients receiving parenteral nutrition .
The cause of precipitate formation has not been determined in all cases ; however , in some fatal cases , pulmonary emboli occurred as a result of calcium phosphate precipitates .
Precipitation has occurred following passage through an in - line filter ; in vivo precipitate formation may also have occurred .
If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the parenteral nutrition infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
In addition to inspection of the solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] , the infusion set and catheter should also periodically be checked for precipitates .
5 . 2 Vein Damage and Thrombosis Zinc Sulfate Injection has a low pH and must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solutions .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
In addition , consider the osmolarity of the final parenteral nutrition solution in determining peripheral versus central administration .
Solutions with an osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic nutrient solutions into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 3 Aluminium Toxicity Zinc Sulfate Injection contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Preterm infants are particularly at risk for aluminum toxicity because the kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which also contain aluminum .
Patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm infants , who receive greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day of parenteral aluminum can accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Exposure to aluminum from Zinc Sulfate Injection is not more than 0 . 6 mcg / kg / day .
When prescribing Zinc Sulfate Injection for use in parenteral nutrition containing other small volume parenteral products , the total daily patient exposure to aluminum from the admixture should be considered and maintained at no more than 5 mcg / kg / day [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests Monitor zinc concentrations , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count and coagulation parameters throughout treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Copper Deficiency Several post - marketing cases have reported that high doses of supplemental zinc ( approximately 10 times the recommended dosage of 3 mg / day Zinc Sulfate Injection in adults ) taken over extended periods of time ( i . e . , months to years ) may result in decreased enteral copper absorption and copper deficiency .
The cases reported the following complications of copper deficiency : anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , myeloneuropathy , and nephrotic - range proteinuria [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
If a patient develops signs and symptoms of copper deficiency during treatment with Zinc Sulfate Injection , interrupt zinc treatment and check zinc , copper , and ceruloplasmin levels .
Copper deficiency should be treated with supplemental copper administration and discontinuation of zinc supplementation .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to subcutaneously administered zinc - containing insulin products were identified in postmarketing case reports .
Reported reactions included injection site induration , erythema , pruritus , papular rash , generalized urticaria , facial swelling , and dyspnea .
Patients did not manifest symptoms after changing to zinc - free insulin or another insulin product with a reduced amount of zinc .
In some cases , allergy testing confirmed the allergy to the zinc component of the insulin product .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue Zinc Sulfate Injection and initiate appropriate medical treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS No zinc - related adverse reactions have been reported in clinical studies or post - marketing reports in patients receiving intravenously administered parenteral nutrition solutions containing zinc sulfate within the recommended dosage range .
The following were identified in clinical studies or post - marketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Adverse reactions with other components of parenteral nutrition solutions : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions with the use of zinc - containing products administered by other routes of administration : • Copper deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] No zinc - related adverse reactions in patients receiving intravenously administered parenteral nutrition solutions containing zinc within the recommended dosage range .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gland Pharma at ( 609 ) 250 - 7990 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Administration of the approved recommended dose of Zinc Sulfate Injection in parenteral nutrition is not expected to cause major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with intravenous zinc sulfate .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo - Fetal Risk Deficiency of trace elements , including zinc , is associated with adverse pregnancy and fetal outcomes .
Pregnant women have an increased metabolic demand for trace elements , including zinc .
Parenteral nutrition with zinc should be considered if a pregnant woman ’ s nutritional requirements cannot be fulfilled by oral or enteral intake .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary Zinc is present in human milk .
Administration of the approved recommended dose of Zinc Sulfate Injection in parenteral nutrition is not expected to cause harm to a breastfed infant .
There is no information on the effects of zinc sulfate on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Zinc Sulfate Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Zinc Sulfate Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Zinc Sulfate Injection is approved for use in the pediatric population , including neonates , as a source of zinc for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients are based on published literature describing controlled studies of zinc - containing products in pediatric patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Because of immature renal function , preterm infants receiving prolonged parenteral nutrition treatment with Zinc Sulfate Injection may be at higher risk of aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience with intravenous zinc sulfate has not identified a difference in zinc requirements between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection should be individualized based on the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and additional nutritional intake provided orally or enterally to the patient .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are reported cases of overdosage with intravenous zinc in parenteral nutrition : • Seven adult patients received an inadvertent overdosage of 50 mg to 75 mg elemental zinc per day in parenteral nutrition solution for 26 to 60 days ; 6 of the 7 patients developed hyperamylasemia ( peak amylase values of 557 to 1850 Klein units ; normal : 130 to 310 ) .
Amylase was not reported in one patient .
Serum zinc concentrations ranged from 310 to 670 mcg / dL .
None of the patients developed clinical signs of pancreatitis .
Five of the 7 patients died of septic complications .
• One adult patient died of infectious complications after receiving an inadvertent overdosage of 7 . 4 grams of zinc sulfate ( equivalent to 1 . 2 grams of elemental zinc per day for 2 . 5 days ) in parenteral nutrition solution over 60 hours .
The serum zinc concentration was 4184 mcg / dL .
Symptoms of zinc overdosage also included hyperamylasemia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , vomiting and diarrhea .
• One preterm infant born at 26 weeks gestation died of cardiac failure following a medication error in which the parenteral nutrition solution contained 330 mg / 100 mL instead of 330 mcg / 100 mL of zinc sulfate ( overdosage of 1000 - fold ) .
Management There is no known antidote for acute zinc toxicity .
Management of zinc overdosage is supportive care based on presenting signs and symptoms .
11 DESCRIPTION Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile , non - pyrogenic , clear , colorless , and odorless solution intended for use as a trace element and an additive to intravenous solutions for parenteral nutrition .
30 mg / 10 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial : Each mL contains 3 mg of zinc present as 7 . 41 mg of zinc sulfate and water for injection q . s . 25 mg / 5 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial : Each mL contains 5 mg of zinc present as 12 . 32 mg of zinc sulfate and water for injection q . s . All presentations do not contain preservatives .
The pH range is 2 to 4 ; pH may be adjusted with sulfuric acid .
3 mg / mL of Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP contains no more than 2 , 500 mcg / L of aluminum and has a calculated osmolarity of 96 . 5 mOsmol / L .
5 mg / mL of Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP contains no more than 2 , 500 mcg / L of aluminum and has a calculated osmolarity of 157 . 2 mOsmol / L .
Zinc sulfate heptahydrate , USP has a molecular weight of 287 . 6 g / mol and a formula of ZnSO4 • 7H2O .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Zinc is an essential trace element .
Zinc functions as a cofactor of various enzymes including DNA polymerases , RNA polymerases , alcohol dehydrogenase , and alkaline phosphatases .
Zinc is a coordinator of protein structural folding , such as folding of “ Zinc finger ” motif that interacts with a variety of proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids .
In addition , zinc is a catalyst of essential biochemical reactions , including activation of substrates of carbonic anhydrase in erythrocyte .
Also , zinc is a signaling mediator modulating multiple signaling pathways .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Zinc sulfate exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamic responses are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Over 85 % of total body zinc is found in skeletal muscle and bone .
Other organs containing zinc are the liver , kidney , skin , brain , and heart .
In blood , zinc is mainly localized within erythrocytes .
Approximately 80 % of serum zinc is bound to albumin and the remainder to alpha2 - macroglobulin and amino acids .
Elimination In adults , zinc is primarily excreted via the gastrointestinal tract and eliminated in the feces .
A smaller amount of zinc is excreted via the kidneys in the urine .
Urinary zinc excretion rates in very low birth weight preterm infants are relatively high in the neonatal period , and they decline to a level on a body weight basis that is similar to that of normal adults by two months of age .
Additionally , endogenous zinc loss occurs from hair , skin desquamation and sweat .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP is a clear , colorless solution supplied as : • 30 mg / 10 mL ( 3 mg / mL ) of zinc in a 10 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial .
Cartons of 25 vials ( NDC 68083 - 498 - 25 ) .
• 25 mg / 5 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) of zinc in a 5 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial .
Cartons of 25 vials ( NDC 68083 - 499 - 25 ) .
Vial closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
For storage of admixed solution see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers or home healthcare providers of the following risks of Zinc Sulfate Injection : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Copper deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited Pashamylaram , Patancheru , Hyderabad - 502 307 , India February 2022 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Carton Label ( 30 mg / 10 mL ) : NDC 68083 - 498 - 25 Rx only Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP 30 mg * / 10 mL ( 3 mg * / mL ) of Zinc For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - Not for Direct Infusion STERILE 25x10 mL VIALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vial Label ( 30 mg / 10 mL ) : NDC 68083 - 498 - 01 Rx only Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP 30 mg * / 10 mL ( 3 mg * / mL ) of Zinc For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - Not for Direct Infusion STERILE 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label ( 25 mg / 5 mL ) : NDC 68083 - 499 - 25 Rx only Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP 25 mg * / 5 mL ( 5 mg * / mL ) of Zinc For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - Not for Direct Infusion STERILE 25x5 mL VIALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vial Label ( 25 mg / 5 mL ) : NDC 68083 - 499 - 01 Rx only Zinc Sulfate Injection , USP 25 mg * / 5 mL ( 5 mg * / mL ) of Zinc For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - Not for Direct Infusion STERILE 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
