Active ingredient Stannous fluoride 0 . 454 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Anticavity Antigingivitis Uses • • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
• • helps control bleeding gums .
• • helps interfere with harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis .
Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • • gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
• • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth , or increasing spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • • brush teeth thoroughly , preferably after each meal or at least twice a day , and not more than 3 times a day , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • to minimize swallowing for children under 6 years of age , use a pea - sized amount and supervise brushing and rinsing until good habits are established .
• • children under 2 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate toothbrushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
• • this product is specially formulated to help prevent staining .
• • do not store above 25ºC ( 77ºF ) Inactive Ingredients glycerin , PEG - 8 , hydrated silica , pentasodium triphosphate , flavor , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , polyacrylic acid , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium saccharin Questions or comments ?
1 - 855 - 328 - 5202 Additional information ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL parodontax ACTIVE GUM REPAIR To keep your gums healthy , It ’ s important for the seal between the gum and the teeth to be tight .
When plaque bacteria builds up along the gum line , this may loosen the gum seal which leads to gum problems .
New parodontax Active Gum Repair is a daily toothpaste formulated to help reverse early signs of early gum damage by targeting plaque , the main cause of gum problems .
The active ingredient kills plaque bacteria at the gum line to help keep the seal tight between gums and teeth and prevent early gum problems .
Kills bacteria to help repair gums For tight gum seal Healthy gums and teeth Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2021 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0638 - 04 NEW parodontax DAILY FLUORIDE ANTICAVITY AND ANTIGINGIVITIS TOOTHPASTE ACTIVE GUM REPAIR HELPS REVERSE SIGNS OF EARLY GUM DAMAGE WHITENING NET WT 3 . 4 OZ ( 96 . 4 g ) 62000000062545 Front Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
