ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Glycerin 2 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : < Pack > Water , Dipropylene Glycol , Alcohol , Glycerine , Polysorbate 80 , Phenoxyethanol , Carbomer , Methylparaben , Allantoin , Xanthan Gum , Triethanolamine , Rubus Coreanus Fruit Extract , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Menthol , Perfume , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Cordyceps Sinensis Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Cornus Officinalis Fruit Extract , Honey Extract , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Lycium Chinense Fruit Extract , Codonopsis Lanceolata Root Extract , Paullinia Cupana Fruit Extract , Juglans Regia ( Walnut ) Shell Extract , Lepidium Meyenii Root Extract , Lespedeza Cuneata Extract , Dendropanax Morbifera Extract , Tocopheryl Acetate , Disodium EDTA < Cream > Water , Dipropylene Glycol , Alcohol , Polysorbate 80 , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Phenoxyethanol , Methylparaben , Allantoin , Xanthan Gum , Niacinamide , Rubus Coreanus Fruit Extract , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Ethyl PABA , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Menthol , Perfume , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Cordyceps Sinensis Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Glycyrrhiza Uralensis ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Lycium Chinense Fruit Extract , Codonopsis Lanceolata Root Extract , Paullinia Cupana Fruit Extract , Juglans Regia ( Walnut ) Shell Extract , Lepidium Meyenii Root Extract , Lespedeza Cuneata Extract , Dendropanax Morbifera Extract , Tocopheryl , Acetate , Disodium EDTA PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Moisturizing WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only Avoid contact with eyes .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rashes appear .
Please don ’ t use it on irritated skin or areas with open wound .
Please use it immediately after opening the package .
And one pack only can be used for one time .
Keep out of reach of children .
Don ’ t keep it in the place with high or low temperature and keep away from direct sunlight .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Uses Uses : The penis - shaped sheet contains high - enriched essence of Korean raspberry , cornus fruit , cordyceps militaris and simmondsia chinensis seed .
The moisturizing mask is for contemporary men who spend a long time in a seat and lack of exercise , which offers effects of cleanness , healthiness and elasticity to the skin which is sealed for a long time .
The massage sheet only for men gives conditioning to the especially thin and sensitive skin to make it feel refreshing .
Directions Directions : Massage Sheet for Prostate 1 .
Before opening , tap on the sheet 2 ~ 3 times to evenly blend the essence .
2 .
Unfold the sheet and put it over the cleanly washed penis .
3 .
Pull the sheet down to cover the entire part .
Massage Sheet for Glans 1 .
Take out the sheet for glans , unfold it in the middle and apply the essence to the sheet .
2 .
Dab the sheet thoroughly to let the sheet soak in the essence .
3 .
Unfold the soaked sheet completely and put it over the glans .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
