DESCRIPTION : Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 4 % contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 40 mg of sulfur in an emulsion base containing urea 10 % , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , disodium oleamido MEA sulfosuccinate , glyceryl stearate and PEG 100 stearate , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : BP Cleansing Wash is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : BP Cleansing Wash is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
BP Cleansing Wash is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS : If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy started .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients - Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy - Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with BP Cleansing Wash .
When administered to a pregnant woman , it also is not known whether BP Cleansing Wash can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm .
BP Cleansing Wash should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of BP Cleansing Wash .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BP Cleansing Wash is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : BP Cleansing Wash : Wash affected area once or twice daily or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off cleansing wash sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : BP Cleansing Wash is available in a 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) bottle , NDC 42192 - 103 - 16 .
Store BP Cleansing Wash at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 1209 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - 473 mL bottle label NDC 42192 - 103 - 16 R x Only BP Cleansing Wash ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 4 % ) In a Urea Vehicle For Topical Use Only Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
