TheraFlu ® Cold and Flu Forest Berries Pharmaceutical form : Powder for preparing a solution for internal use ( forest berries ) .
Composition : One packet contains : Active ingredients : paracetamol 325 mg , pheniramine maleate 20 mg , phenylephrine hydrochloride 10 mg .
Auxiliary ingredients : sucrose , acesulfame potassium , red dye Е129 , blue dye Е133 , maltodextrin , silicon dioxide , flavoring agent natural raspberry , flavoring agent natural cranberry , anhydrous citric acid , sodium citrate dihydrate , tribasic calcium phosphate , magnesium stearate .
Description : Loose white powder containing white , yellow , and gray - violet granules .
May contain soft clumps .
When one packet is dissolved in hot water , a cloudy solution forms which is pink - violet in color with a berry aroma .
Pharmacotherapeutic group : analgesics and antipyretics , paracetamol in combination with other preparations ( excluding psycholeptics ) .
ATC code : NO2BE51 Pharmacological properties : Combination preparation , has an antipyretic , anti - inflammatory , anti - edematous , analgesic , and anti - allergic action .
Indications : Infectious / inflammatory illnesses - influenza , ARVI ( “ common cold ” ) , accompanied by a high temperature , chills , and fever , headache , rhinitis and nasal congestion , sneezing , and muscle pain Contraindications : Increased sensitivity to individual ingredients of the preparation , simultaneous use of tricyclic antidepressants , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , beta - adrenergic blockers ; portal hypertension ; alcoholism ; diabetes mellitus , pregnancy , breast - feeding , children under 12 years of age .
With caution : in marked coronary artery atherosclerosis , in arterial hypertension , narrow - angle glaucoma , severe liver or kidney diseases , prostatic hyperplasia , blood diseases , glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital hyperbilirubinemia ( Gilbert , Dubin - Johnson , and Rotor syndromes ) , hyperthyroidism , pheochromocytoma , bronchial asthma .
Dosage and administration : Oral .
The content of a packet is dissolved in 1 glass of boiling hot water .
Consumed in hot form .
Sugar can be added to taste .
A repeated dose may be taken every 4 hours ( no more than 3 doses in 24 hours ) .
TheraFlu ® can be used at any time of day , but taking the preparation before going to sleep , for the night , has the best effect .
If there is no relief of symptoms within 3 days after the preparation is first taken , a physician must be consulted Side effects : possible allergic reactions ( skin rash , pruritus , hives , angioedema ) , hyperexcitability , sleep disorder , reduction in the speed of psychomotor reactions , drowsiness , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , stomach pain , palpitations , blood pressure increase , dry mouth , accommodative palsy , increase in intraocular pressure , urinary retention .
During prolonged use in high doses - hepatotoxic action , changes in blood count ; nephrotoxicity .
Overdosage : Nausea , vomiting , epigastric pain , hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic action , in severe cases - hepatic insufficiency , hepatic necrosis , increase in " liver " transaminase activity , increase in prothrombin time , encephalopathy , and comatose state .
Treatment : gastric lavage , administration of activated charcoal , symptomatic therapy .
Administration of methionine 8 - 9 hours after the overdosage and N - acetylcysteine - after 12 hours .
Medical attention should be sought .
Interaction with other drugs : Intensifies the effect of MAO inhibitors , sedative preparations , ethanol .
The risk of the hepatotoxic action of paracetamol increases during concurrent use of barbiturates , diphenine , carbamazepine , rifampicin , zidovudine , and other hepatic microsomal enzyme inducers .
Antidepressants , antiparkinsonian agents , antipsychotic agents , and phenothiazine derivatives - increase the risk of developing urinary retention , dry mouth , and constipation .
Glucocorticosteroids increase the risk of developing elevated intraocular pressure .
Special warnings : To avoid toxic liver damage , the preparation should not be combined with the use of alcoholic beverages .
Care should be taken when the preparation is used by individuals over 70 years of age with cardiovascular disease because of the possible vasoconstricting action of phenylephrine .
If regardless of the use of the preparation , the illness is accompanied by continuing fever or repeated temperature elevations , a physician must be consulted .
Do not exceed the recommended dose .
Do not use the preparation from damaged packets .
Effect on the ability to drive an automobile and to operate machinery .
During treatment , care must be taken when operating an automobile or other machinery , requiring mental alertness and quick psychomotor reactions .
Storage conditions : At a temperature below 25 ° C . Store out of the reach of children .
Shelf life : 2 years .
Do not use after the expiration date printed on the package .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
