DESCRIPTION Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment and caloric supply in a single dose container for intravenous administration .
Each 100 mL contains 5 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP * , 526 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) ; 502 mg Sodium Gluconate ( C6H11NaO7 ) ; 368 mg Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP ( C2H3NaO2 • 3H2O ) , 37 mg Potassium Chloride , USP ( KCl ) ; and 30 mg Magnesium Chloride , USP ( MgCl2 • 6H2O ) .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The pH is 5 . 0 ( 4 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) .
The pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) administered intravenously has value as a source of water , electrolytes , and calories .
One liter has an ionic concentration of 140 mEq sodium , 5 mEq potassium , 3 mEq magnesium , 98 mEq chloride , 27 mEq acetate and 23 mEq gluconate .
The osmolarity is 547 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
The caloric content is 190 kcal / L .
The Viaflex ® plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 ® Plastic ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) has value as a source of water , electrolytes , and calories .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) produces a metabolic alkalinizing effect .
Acetate and gluconate ions are metabolized ultimately to carbon dioxide and water , which requires the consumption of hydrogen cations .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) is indicated as a source of water , electrolytes , and calories , or as an alkalinizing agent .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing dextrose may be contraindicated in patients with known allergy to corn or corn products .
WARNINGS Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of acetate or gluconate ions should be done with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of these ions , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states , or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the injection .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the injection .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) may result in sodium or potassium retention .
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) should be used with caution .
Excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) should be used with caution in patients with overt or subclinical diabetes mellitus .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) .
It is also not known whether Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of plasmalyte and dextrose solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible hemorrhage .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Studies with Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) is administered to a nursing mother .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or drug therapy .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As directed by a physician .
Dosage is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
All injections in Viaflex ® plastic containers are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Additives may be incompatible .
Complete information is not available .
Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
Do not store solutions containing additives .
HOW SUPPLIED Plasma - Lyte ® 148 and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection , Type 1 , USP ) in Viaflex ® plastic containers is available as shown below : Size ( mL ) Code NDC 1000 2B2584 NDC 0338 - 0149 - 04 500 2B2583 NDC 0338 - 0149 - 03 Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF VIAFLEX ® PLASTIC CONTAINER Warning : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed .
To Open Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below .
Preparation for Administration 1 .
Suspend container from eyelet support .
2 .
Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
3 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Additives may be incompatible .
To add medication before solution administration 1 .
Prepare medication site .
2 .
Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
3 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
To add medication during solution administration 1 .
Close clamp on the set .
2 .
Prepare medication site .
3 .
Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
4 .
Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
5 .
Evacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
6 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
7 .
Return container to in use position and continue administration .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in USA © Copyright 1982 , 1983 , 1989 , 1993 , Baxter Healthcare Corporation .
All rights reserved .
7 - 19 - 22 - 968
