Active Ingredient Undecylenic acid 25 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses For the cure of most • ringworm ( tinea corporitis ) and athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) .
For relief of itching , scaling , cracking , burning , redness , soreness , irritation , and discomforts which may accompany these conditions .
Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use on children under 2 years of age .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation occurs • There is no improvement within 4 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions Read all package directions and warnings before use .
Use only as directed .
Clean the affected area with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of FUNGICURE Liquid over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor .
This product is not effective on scalp or nails .
For ringworm and athlete ' s foot , use daily for 4 weeks .
For athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between toes ; wear well fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
Intended for use by normally healthy adults only .
Persons under 18 years of age or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as directed by a doctor .
Supervise children in the use of this product .
Other information • FUNGICURE may be applied to exposed nail beds , cuticles , around nail edges and under nail tips where reachable with its applicator brush .
• This product is not intended to , nor will it , penetrate hard nail surfaces .
• While not all finger and toe fungal infections are curable with OTC topical medications , if you see improvement within 4 weeks of use , you may continue to use FUNGICURE until satisfactory results are obtained .
• You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Inactive ingredients Isopropyl palmitate Questions ?
1 - 800 - 792 - 2582 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
