Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • limit use to the face and neck Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • As a daily wash - wet face .
Dispense product into hands , lather and massage gently onto face and neck , avoiding the eye area • rinse thoroughly with warm water and gently pat dry .
• because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce the application to once a day or every other day .
• As a mask - use up to 3 times a week for a deeper treatment – wet face , apply on to damp skin .
Leave on for 1 minute .
Rinse off thoroughly with warm water .
Gently pat dry .
Other information • keep tightly closed • store in a cool , dry place Inactive ingredients water , bentonite , kaolin , glycerin , titanium dioxide , sodium laureth sulfate , niacinamide , sodium lactate , xanthan gum , coco - glucoside , cocamidopropyl betaine , hexyldecanol , sodium hydroxide , fragrance , dipotassium glycyrrhizate , disodium EDTA , bisabolol , cetylhydroxyproline palmitamide , stearic acid , Brassica campestris sterols , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C yellow no . 6 Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mL Tube Label Clearasil ® ULTRA Acne + Marks Wash and Mask Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication REDUCES MARKS Helps to clear pimples fast and reduce the appearance of acne marks 6 . 78 FL OZ ( 200 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
