Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Keep out of rech of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other information • each teaspoon ( 5 grams ) contains : magnesium 495 mg Inactive Ingredients None Meijer Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate USP For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of tis product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
Caution : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
For use as a fertilizer apply at the following rates : Lawns : Apply at a rate of 1 / 2 pound per one thousand square feet of lawn .
For use as a plant food supplement apply at the following rates : Tomatoes , Roses - One teaspoon per foot plant height every two weeks .
Evergreens , Azaleas , Rhododendrons - apply one tablespoon per nine sq . ft . ( 3 ' x 3 ' ) over the root zone every two to for weeks .
Garden Plants and Shrubbery - Sprinkle 2 tablespoons around the base of each plant .
Trees - Apply two tablespoons per nine sq . ft . ( 3 ' x3 ' ) over root zone once every four months .
Garden Startup - Sprinkle approximately one cup per 100 sq . ft . ( 10 ' x 10 ' ) and mix ito soil prior to planting .
Houseplants - Mix one teaspoon per gallon of water and feed to plants every one to four weeks .
For quicker results water plants after applying this product .
Epsom salt is a trusted remedy that is useful every season of the year .
Beat winter blues - Simply dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt in a warm bath to provide soothing relief from stress and stiffness .
A mineral spring spa - Spring is your fresh start to working out and physical activity , often leading to overexertion .
Just dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt into warm bath water , settle in , and experience the relief and relaxation .
First aid summer salt - Dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt in two cups of warm water to make a compress .
Apply as a wet dressing towel to provide soothing relief from overexertion from sports .
Dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt into a gallon of water to make a foot soak to relieve and soothe tired feet .
Relax into autumn - Dissolve two cusps of Meijer Epsom Salt into a gallon of warm water .
this wlil soak away tiredness , soreness and help soothe away stress .
GUARANTEED ANALYSIS * Magnesium ( Mg ) ......................................... 9 . 8 % - 9 . 8 % Soluble Magnesium ( Mg ) Sulfur ( S ) ...................................................... 12 . 9 % - 12 . 9 % Combined Sulfur ( S ) Derived from : magnesium sulfate F - 1253 Information regarding the contents and levels of metals in this product is available on the Internet at : http .
/ / agr . wa . gov * GUARANTEED BY : Vi - Jon , Inc 8515 Page Ave . St . Louis , MO 63114 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC . , Grand Rapids , MI 49544 www . meijer . com Principal Panel Display Resealable Pouch Tamper evident packaging .
Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
Value Size 8 lbs Meijer multi - purpose Epsom Salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . • saline laxative • soaking aid • plant food supplement For relief of occasional constipation For minor sprains and bruises For bigger , more vigorous plants NET WT 8 LB ( 3 . 62 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
