Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine 20 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain • • kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • read the directions and warnings before use • • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • protect from moisture Inactive ingredients carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Principal Display Panel SEE NEW WARNINGS equate ™ Compare to Maximum Strength Pepcid ® AC active ingredient MAXIMUM STRENGTH Famotidine Tablets , 20 mg Acid Reducer • Just one tablet prevents and relieves heartburn due to acid indigestion Actual Size 20 mg 100 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
