Dental Rinse DESCRIPTION Neutral Sodium Fluoride 0 . 2 % Dental Rinse is a grape flavored , neutral , aqueous solution containing no alcohol .
ACTIVE INGREDIENT : Sodium Fluoride 0 . 2 % ( w / v ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Purified water , Glycerin , Xylitol , Propylene Glycol , Natural Grape Type Flavor , Methylparaben , Sucralose , Propylparaben .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of sodium fluoride increases tooth resistance to acid dissolution , promotes remineralization , and inhibits the cariogenic microbial process .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For once weekly use as a dental caries preventative in pediatric patients .
WARNINGS DO NOT SWALLOW .
Keep out of reach of infants and children .
Pediatric populations under the age of 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product .
Patients under the age of 6 years require special supervision to prevent repeated swallowing of the rinse since they may frequently swallow large amounts while rinsing .
Prolonged daily ingestion may result in dental fluorosis in patients under the age of 6 years , especially if water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm .
Read directions before using .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For caries – Adults and pediatric patients over 6 years of age , 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) once a week , preferably at bedtime after thoroughly brushing teeth , rinse vigorously around and between the teeth for one minute , then spit out .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
For maximum benefit , do not eat , drink , or rinse mouth for at least 30 minutes after treatment .
STORAGE Store at room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with dyaphagia .
Do not use in pediatric patients under the age of 6 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
PRECAUTIONS General Not for systemic treatment .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY No carcinogenesis was observed in mice or female rats treated with fluoride at doses ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was found in rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
However , no carcinogenesis was reported in rats treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Epidemiological studies provide no credible evidence for an association between fluoride , either naturally occurring or added to drinking water , and risk of cancer .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
Fluoride ion has been associated with chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than expected human exposures .
Some in vivo studies report chromosome damage in rodent cells while other studies using similar doses report negative findings .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans have not been fully evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Studies conducted in rats have shown that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility or reproductive capabilities .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Fluoride crosses the placenta in rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies with rats , mice , and rabbits have demonstrated that fluoride is not teratogenic .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight in rats or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight in rabbits did not affect litter size or fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
No adequate or well - controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally occurring fluoridated water have shown no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis which becomes evident in childhood .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in human milk and caution should be exercised when fluoride products are administered to nursing women .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when they were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were observed in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
PEDIATRIC USE The use of Neutral Sodium Fluoride 0 . 2 % Dental Rinse as a weekly caries preventative product in pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years is supported by adequate and well - controlled clinical trials in students aged 6 to 12 years . 1 - 3 Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established ( refer to CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS sections ) .
GERIATRIC USE Of the total number of subjects considered in clinical trials using 1 . 1 % ( w / v ) sodium fluoride , 15 % were 65 years and older , while 1 % were 75 years and older .
Overall , no differences in safety or efficacy were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical data have not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients but greater sensitivity in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Fluoride is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Since elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection .
It may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with mucositis , gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to flavor present in the formulation .
Allergic reactions are rarely reported .
OVERDOSE Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / pound body weight ) has been ingested , give calcium in the form of milk orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride body weight ( i . e . , more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / pound body weight ) has been ingested , induce vomiting , administer orally soluble calcium in the form of milk , calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution , and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / pound body weight ) induce vomiting , and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( 10 mL ) or two teaspoonfuls ) of Neutral Sodium Fluoride 0 . 2 % Dental Rinse contains approximately 9 mg of fluoride .
One 16 fl oz bottle contains approximately 429 mg fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For caries – Adults and pediatric patients over 6 years of age , 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) once a week , preferably at bedtime after thoroughly brushing teeth , rinse vigorously around and between the teeth for one minute , then spit out .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
For maximum benefit , do not eat , drink , or rinse mouth for at least 30 minutes after treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Plastic bottle with child - resistant closure containing 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) .
STORAGE Store at room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
REFERENCES • American Dental Association , Accepted Dental Therapeutics , Ed .
4 , Chicago ( 1984 ) : 403 .
• Ibid . , pp . 405 - 407 .
• L . W . Ripa , G . S . Leske , and A . Sposato , " Supervised Weekly Rinsing with a 0 . 2 % Neutral NaF Solution : Final Results of a Demonstration Program after Six School Years , " J . Pub .
Health Dent .
1984 ; 43 : 53 - 62 .
• W . S . Driscoll , et al . , " Caries - Preventative Effects on School Children Daily and Weekly Fluoridate Mouthrinsing in a Fluoridated Community : Final Results after 30 Months , " JADA 1982 ; 105 : 1010 - 013 .
Manufactured by : Sancilio and Company Riviera Beach , FL 33404 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label Made in USA 44946 - 1050 - 8 SCI Developing Good Science into Great Medicine Neutral Sodium Fluoride 0 . 2 % Dental Rinse Alcohol Free Rx Only DO NOT SWALLOW PROFESSIONAL Grape Flavored Colorless 16 fl oz ( 1 pt ) ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
