Active ingredient Avobenzone , 2 . 0 % Octisalate , 5 . 0 % Octocrylene , 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • olimit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • owear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , cyclohexasiloxane , glycerin , titanium dioxide , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , beeswax , myristyl myristate , stearic acid , palmitic acid , polyglyceryl - 10 pentastearate , behenyl alcohol , sodium steroyl lactylate , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , butylene glycol , carbomer , polysorbate 20 , palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , hydrolyzed soy protein , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , fragrance , triethanolamine , glycine soja ( soybean ) protein , xanthan gum , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A ) , phenoxyethanol , PEG - 20 stearate , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , phenethyl alcohol , alcohol denat . , chlorphenesin , alcohol .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label SHOPKO ® * Compare to active ingredients in L ’ Oreal ® Revitalift ® Anti - Wrinkle + Firming Day Cream Anti - Wrinkle & Firming Moisturizer Day Cream / SPF 18 Broad Spectrum Sunscreen with Pro - Vitamin A , Teterapeptide Complex & Sepilift ™ NET WT 1 . 7 OZ ( 48 g ) FIRMING & ANTI - WRINKLE : AN INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY Now experience the advanced actions against the signs of skin aging .
New Anti - Wrinkle & Firming Day Cream Broad Spectrum SPF18 Sunscreen , with effective encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A , Tetrapeptide Complex and Sepilift ™ will increase cell turnover , reduce wrinkles , firm the skin , and provide 24 hour moisturization .
FORMULA ESSENTIALS • • UV SPF18 sunscreen • • Non - Comedogenic • • Dermatologist tested for gentleness • • Non - greasy * This product is not manufactured or distributed by L ' Oreal ® , owner of the registered trademark Revitalift ® .
Distributed by Shopko Stores Operating Co . , LLC 700 Pilgrim Way , Green Bay , WI 54307 © 2014 Shopko Stores Operating Co . , LLC www . shopko . com Manufactured in Israel 37815 8 C C1 SHOPKO ® Satisfaction Guaranteed By Refund or Exchange TRIPLE - ACTION TECHNOLOGY Advanced Anti - Wrinkle Action : Encapsulated Pro - Vitamin A and Sepilift ™ will hasten skin renewal , reducing the amount of fine lines and wrinkles and their depth .
Results can be seen in just two weeks .
The new technology will continually act to help fight the signs of aging .
Innovative Firming : Tetrapeptide Complex has proven to show renewed elastin and collagen fiber + .
Skin ' s surface is remodeled , becoming more resilient and toned .
Continuous Moisturization & Skin Protection : Provides 24 hour moisturization to soothe dry skin .
Broad spectrum UVA / UVB SPF18 protects the skin and prevents skin damage by UV exposure .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : Every day , smooth gently onto face and neck until thoroughly absorbed .
Use in the AM , alone or under makeup .
Results : Skin ' s elasticity is improved , Visible reduction of wrinkles and skin looks smoother , Firmer skin Sepilift ™ is a registered trademark owned by Seppic .
+ In - vitro testing [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
