Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each extended - release tablet ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 60 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 1200 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • do not crush , chew , or break extended - release tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals • adults and children 12 years and older : 1 extended - release tablet every 12 hours ; not more than 2 extended - release tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer , colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone ( K - 30 ) , stearic acid Questions ?
( 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 ) You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Ohm Laboratories Inc .
New Brunswick , NJ 08901 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 14 Tablet Blister Pack Carton † Compare To the active ingredients of Maximum Strength Mucinex ® DM NDC 51660 - 110 - 54 ohm ® Maximum Strength Guaifenesin 1200 mg & Dextromethorphan HBr 60 mg Extended - Release Tablets Expectorant & Cough Suppressant 12 Hour • Controls Cough • Thins and Loosens Mucus • Immediate and Extended Release 14 Extended - Release Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
