Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • empty entire contents of packet onto tongue and swallow • for best taste , do not chew granules • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period Age Dose adults and children 12 years and over 2 to 4 packets every 4 hours children 6 years to under 12 years 1 to 2 packets every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 1 packet every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • each packet contains : magnesium 6 mg and sodium 3 mg • phenylketonurics : contains phenylalanine 2 mg per packet • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • tamper evident : do not use if carton is open or if packets are torn or open Inactive ingredients aspartame , butylated methacrylate copolymer , carbomer homopolymer type A , creme flavor , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , orange flavor , povidone , sodium bicarbonate , sodium carboxymethylcellulose , sorbitol , stearic acid , talc , triethyl citrate Questions ?
1 - 866 - MUCINEX ( 682 - 4639 ) You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 Packet Carton NDC 63824 - 256 - 12 Children ' s Mucinex ® Cough Expectorant Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg / Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg mini - melts ™ ✓ Cough ✓ Chest Congestion ✓ Breaks up Mucus Orange Creme Flavor 12 GRANULE PACKETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
