DESCRIPTION Viadur ® ( leuprolide acetate implant ) is a sterile nonbiodegradable , osmotically driven miniaturized implant designed to deliver leuprolide acetate for 12 months at a controlled rate ( Figure A ) .
Viadur ® incorporates DUROS ® technology .
The system contains 65 mg of leuprolide ( free base ) .
Leuprolide acetate is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally occurring gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH or LH - RH ) .
The analog possesses greater potency than the natural hormone .
The implant is inserted subcutaneously in the inner aspect of the upper arm .
After 12 months , the implant must be removed .
At the time an implant is removed , another implant may be inserted to continue therapy .
Viadur ® contains 72 mg of leuprolide acetate ( equivalent to 65 mg leuprolide free base ) dissolved in 104 mg dimethyl sulfoxide .
The 4 mm by 45 mm titanium alloy reservoir houses a polyurethane rate - controlling membrane , an elastomeric piston , and a polyethylene diffusion moderator .
The reservoir also contains the osmotic tablets , which are not released with the drug formulation .
The osmotic tablets are composed of sodium chloride , sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , povidone , magnesium stearate , and sterile water for injection .
Polyethylene glycol fills the space between the osmotic tablets and the reservoir .
A minute amount of silicone medical fluid is used during manufacture as a lubricant .
The weight of the implant is approximately 1 . 1 g . [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name is 5 - Oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - leucyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - N - ethyl - L - prolinamide acetate ( salt ) , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leuprolide acetate , an LH - RH agonist , acts as a potent inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion when given continuously and in therapeutic doses .
Animal and human studies indicate that after an initial stimulation , chronic administration of leuprolide acetate results in suppression of ovarian and testicular steroidogenesis .
In humans , administration of leuprolide acetate results in an initial increase in circulating levels of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , leading to a transient increase in concentrations of gonadal steroids ( testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in males , and estrone and estradiol in premenopausal females ) .
However , continuous administration of leuprolide acetate results in decreased levels of LH and FSH .
In males , testosterone is reduced to castrate levels .
These decreases occur within 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of treatment .
One Viadur ® Implant nominally delivers 120 micrograms of leuprolide acetate per day over 12 months .
Leuprolide acetate is not active when given orally .
PHARMACOKINETICS Absorption After insertion of Viadur ® , mean serum leuprolide concentrations were 16 . 9 ng / mL at 4 hours and 2 . 4 ng / mL at 24 hours .
Thereafter , leuprolide was released at a constant rate .
Mean serum leuprolide concentrations were maintained at 0 . 9 ng / mL ( 0 . 3 to 3 . 1 ng / mL ; SD = ± 0 . 4 ) for 12 months .
Upon removal and insertion of a new Viadur ® at 12 months , steady - state serum leuprolide concentrations were maintained .
Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution of leuprolide following 1 mg intravenous ( IV ) bolus administration to healthy male volunteers was 27 L .
In vitro binding to human plasma proteins ranged from 43 % to 49 % . 1 Metabolism In healthy male volunteers administered a 1 mg IV bolus of leuprolide , the mean systemic clearance was 8 . 34 L / h , with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 3 hours , based on a two - compartment model . 1 A pentapeptide ( M - 1 ) is the major leuprolide metabolite upon administration with different leuprolide acetate formulations .
No drug metabolism study was conducted with Viadur ® .
Excretion No drug excretion study was conducted with Viadur ® .
Dose Proportionality In a study comparing one Viadur ® implant to two Viadur ® implants , mean serum leuprolide concentrations were proportional to dose .
Special Populations Geriatrics The majority ( 88 % ) of the 131 patients studied in clinical trials were age 65 and over .
Pediatrics The safety and effectiveness of Viadur ® in pediatric patients have not been established ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Race In the patients studied ( 80 Caucasian , 23 Black , 3 Hispanic ) , mean serum leuprolide concentrations were similar .
Renal and Hepatic Insufficiency The pharmacokinetics of the drug in hepatically and renally impaired patients have not been determined .
Drug - Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Viadur ® .
CLINICAL STUDIES In two open - label , non - comparative , multicenter studies , 131 patients with prostatic cancer were treated with Viadur ® and evaluated for up to two years .
Two - thirds of the patients had stage C or less advanced disease .
The dose - ranging study assessed serum testosterone as the primary efficacy endpoint in 51 patients treated with either one [ n = 27 ] or two [ n = 24 ] implants for 12 months .
The confirmatory study evaluated achievement and maintenance of serum testosterone suppression in 80 patients each treated with one implant for 12 months .
Both studies included a removal procedure and insertion of a new implant with evaluation for 12 additional months .
Following the initial insertion in patients receiving one implant , mean serum testosterone concentrations increased from 422 ng / dL at baseline to 690 ng / dL on Day 3 , then decreased to below baseline by week two ( Figure B ) .
Serum testosterone decreased below the 50 ng / dL castrate threshold by week four in all but one patient [ 106 of 107 patients , 99 % ] .
Once serum testosterone suppression was achieved [ one patient was not continuously suppressed until week 28 ] , testosterone remained suppressed below the castrate threshold for the duration of the treatment phase .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Most patients [ n = 118 ] had a new implant inserted for a second year of therapy following removal of the first implant ( s ) .
No patient experienced a clinically significant increase in serum testosterone [ acute - on - chronic phenomenon ] upon removal of the original implant ( s ) and insertion of a new implant .
Suppression of serum testosterone was maintained in all patients through the two - month follow - up period following removal of the first implant ( s ) and insertion of a new implant .
Serum Prostate Specific Antigen ( PSA ) was monitored as a secondary endpoint in the clinical studies with Viadur ® .
Serum PSA decreased in all patients after they began treatment with Viadur ® .
At six months , PSA concentrations decreased from baseline by at least 90 % in 74 . 2 % of the 97 evaluable patients .
Periodic monitoring of serum testosterone and PSA concentrations is recommended , especially if the anticipated clinical or biochemical response to treatment has not been achieved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Viadur ® is indicated in the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Viadur ® is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs , or any of the components in Viadur ® .
Anaphylactic reactions to synthetic GnRH or GnRH agonist analogs have been reported in the literature . 2 • Viadur ® is contraindicated in women and in pediatric patients and was not studied in women or children .
Moreover , leuprolide acetate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Major fetal abnormalities were observed in rabbits but not in rats after administration of leuprolide acetate throughout gestation .
There were increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights in rats and rabbits .
The effects on fetal mortality are expected consequences of the alterations in hormonal levels brought about by this drug .
The possibility exists that spontaneous abortion may occur .
WARNINGS Viadur ® , like other LH - RH agonists , causes a transient increase in serum concentrations of testosterone during the first week of treatment .
Patients may experience worsening of symptoms or onset of new symptoms , including bone pain , neuropathy , hematuria , or ureteral or bladder outlet obstruction ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Cases of ureteral obstruction and spinal cord compression , which may contribute to paralysis with or without fatal complications , have been reported with LH - RH agonists .
If spinal cord compression or renal impairment develops , standard treatment of these complications should be instituted .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients with metastatic vertebral lesions and / or with urinary tract obstruction should be closely observed during the first few weeks of therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
X - rays do not affect Viadur ® functionality .
Viadur ® is radio - opaque and is well visualized on X - rays .
The titanium alloy reservoir of Viadur ® is nonferromagnetic and is not affected by magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) .
Slight image distortion around Viadur ® may occur during MRI procedures .
Information for Patients An information leaflet for patients is included with the product .
Laboratory tests Response to Viadur ® should be monitored by measuring serum concentrations of testosterone and prostate - specific antigen periodically .
Results of testosterone determinations are dependent on assay methodology .
It is advisable to be aware of the type and precision of the assay methodology to make appropriate clinical and therapeutic decisions .
Drug Interactions See PHARMACOKINETICS .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Therapy with leuprolide results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
Results of diagnostic tests of pituitary gonadotropic and gonadal functions conducted during and after leuprolide therapy may be affected .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies were conducted in rats and mice .
In rats , dose - related increases of benign pituitary hyperplasia and benign pituitary adenomas were noted at 24 months when the drug was administered subcutaneously at high daily doses ( 4 to 24 mg / m2 , 50 to 300 times the daily human exposure based on body surface area ) .
There were significant but not dose - related increases of pancreatic islet - cell adenomas in females and of testicular interstitial cell adenomas in males ( highest incidence in the low dose group ) .
In mice no pituitary abnormalities were observed at up to 180 mg / m2 ( over 2000 times the daily human exposure based on body surface area ) for 2 years .
Mutagenicity studies were performed with leuprolide acetate using bacterial and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of a mutagenic potential .
Pregnancy , Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category X ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Pediatric Use Viadur ® is contraindicated in pediatric patients and was not studied in children ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Viadur ® was evaluated in 131 patients with prostate cancer treated for up to 24 months in two clinical trials .
Viadur ® , like other LHRH analogs , caused a transient increase in serum testosterone concentrations during the first 2 weeks of treatment .
Therefore , potential exacerbations of signs and symptoms of the disease during the first few weeks of treatment are of concern in patients with vertebral metastases and / or urinary obstruction or hematuria .
If these conditions are aggravated , it may lead to neurological problems such as weakness and / or paresthesia of the lower limbs or worsening of urinary symptoms ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
In the above - described clinical trials , the transient increase in serum testosterone concentrations was associated with an exacerbation of disease symptoms , manifested by pain or bladder outlet obstructive symptoms ( urinary retention or frequency ) in 6 ( 4 . 6 % ) patients .
The majority of local reactions associated with initial insertion or removal and insertion of a new implant began and resolved within the first two weeks .
Reactions persisted in 9 . 3 % of patients .
10 . 3 % of patients developed application - site reactions after the first two weeks following insertion .
Local reactions after initial insertion of a single implant included bruising ( 34 . 6 % ) and burning ( 5 . 6 % ) .
Other , less frequently reported , reactions included pulling , pressure , itching , erythema , pain , edema , and bleeding .
In these two clinical trials , four patients had local infection / inflammations that resolved after treatment with oral antibiotics .
Local reactions following insertion of a subsequent implant were comparable to those seen after initial insertion .
In the first 12 months after initial insertion of the implant ( s ) , an implant extruded through the incision site in three of 131 patients ( see INSERTION AND REMOVAL PROCEDURES for correct implant placement ) .
The following possibly or probably related systemic adverse events occurred during clinical trials within 24 months of treatment with Viadur ® , and were reported in ≥ 2 % of patients ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 Incidence ( % ) of Possibly or Probably Related Systemic Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with Viadur ® for up to 24 Months * Expected pharmacologic consequences of testosterone suppression .
Body System Adverse Event Number ( % ) Body as a Whole Asthenia 10 ( 7 . 6 % ) Headache 6 ( 4 . 6 % ) Extremity pain 4 ( 3 . 1 % ) Cardiovascular Vasodilatation ( hot flashes ) * 89 ( 67 . 9 % ) Digestive Diarrhea 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) Hematology and Lymphatic Ecchymosis 6 ( 4 . 6 % ) Anemia 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) Metabolic and Nutritional Peripheral edema 4 ( 3 . 1 % ) Weight gain 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) Nervous Depression 7 ( 5 . 3 % ) Respiratory Dyspnea 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) Skin Sweating * 7 ( 5 . 3 % ) Alopecia 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) Urogenital Gynecomastia / breast enlargement * 9 ( 6 . 9 % ) Nocturia 5 ( 3 . 8 % ) Urinary frequency 5 ( 3 . 8 % ) Testis atrophy or pain * 5 ( 3 . 8 % ) Breast pain * 4 ( 3 . 1 % ) Impotence * 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) In addition , the following possibly or probably related systemic adverse events were reported by < 2 % of patients using Viadur ® in clinical studies .
General : General pain , chills , abdominal pain , malaise , dry mucous membranes Gastrointestinal : Constipation , nausea Hematologic : Iron deficiency anemia Metabolic : Edema , weight loss Musculoskeletal : Bone pain , arthritis Nervous : Dizziness , insomnia , paresthesia , amnesia , anxiety Skin : Pruritus , rash , hirsutism Urogenital : Urinary urgency , prostatic disorder , urinary tract infection , dysuria , urinary incontinence , urinary retention Changes in Bone Density Decreased bone density has been reported in the medical literature in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with an LH - RH agonist analog .
In a clinical trial , 25 men with prostate cancer , 12 of whom had been treated previously with leuprolide acetate for at least 6 months , underwent bone density studies as a result of pain .
The leuprolide - treated group had lower bone density scores than the nontreated control group .
It can be anticipated that long periods of medical castration in men will have effects on bone density .
Postmarketing Pituitary apoplexy : During post - marketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
Ninety - seven of the 131 patients in the two - year duration studies that supported approval of Viadur ® continued in an open - label , third - year extension study .
One patient prematurely withdrew due to lack of efficacy that was attributed to a defective implant .
Fifty of these patients continued in an open - label , fourth - year extension study .
No spontaneous implant extrusions were reported in these extension studies .
Since Viadur ® has been commercially available , < 1 % of patients implanted have been reported to have a spontaneous implant extrusion ( with or without associated infection ) .
Additional adverse events have been reported from US post - marketing experience with Viadur ® .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events have been reported infrequently and include fatigue , hypertension , migration of implant , syncope , tremor , and vomiting .
OVERDOSAGE In clinical trials using daily subcutaneous leuprolide acetate in patients with prostate cancer , doses as high as 20 mg / day for up to 2 years caused no adverse effects differing from those observed with the 1 mg / day dose .
The adverse event profiles were similar in patients receiving one or two Viadur ® implants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of Viadur ® is one implant for 12 months .
Each implant contains 65 mg leuprolide .
The implant is inserted subcutaneously in the inner aspect of the upper arm and provides continuous release of leuprolide for 12 months of hormonal therapy .
Viadur ® must be removed after 12 months of therapy .
At the time an implant is removed , another implant may be inserted to continue therapy .
( See INSERTION AND REMOVAL PROCEDURES . )
Insertion and Removal Procedures Viadur ® is supplied in a box containing one sterile Viadur ® implant in a sealed vial , one Viadur ® sterile implanter , one sealed container of lidocaine HCl USP 2 % , 10 mL , and one sterile Viadur ® Kit .
The Viadur ® Kit is designed to provide a sterile field and supplies to facilitate the insertion and / or subsequent removal of the implant .
In addition to the Viadur ® Kit , sterile gloves are required for the insertion procedure and subsequent removal of the implant .
Insertion Procedure Under aseptic conditions , an implanter is used to place the implant under the skin .
The implant is inserted using the procedure outlined below .
Identifying the Insertion Site • Have the patient lie on his back on the examination table , with his left arm ( if the patient is left - handed , the right arm ) flexed at the elbow and externally rotated so that his hand is out to his side .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using a pen and ruler , mark a site on the inner , upper arm approximately 8 - 10 cm above the elbow crease in the groove between the biceps and triceps muscles .
Make sure that the site is unaffected by movement of the muscles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing the Sterile Field • To establish a sterile field , carefully open the sterile Viadur ® Kit .
The sterile kit contains : 1 scalpel 1 forceps 1 syringe 1 package povidone - iodine swabs 1 package wound closure strips 1 - 22 Ga x 1 . 5 ” needle 1 - 25 Ga x 1 . 5 ” needle 6 gauze sponges 2 alcohol prep swabs 1 package skin protectant 1 bandage 1 fenestrated drape 1 marking pen 1 ruler 1 mosquito clamp [ MULTIMEDIA ] • The implant tray contains : 1 sealed vial , which contains the Viadur ® implant 1 sterile implanter 1 sealed container of lidocaine HCl USP 2 % , 10 mL To open the vial , remove the metal band from the bottle and pull up the stopper .
Carefully drop the implant from the bottle onto the sterile field .
Then , carefully drop the implanter and the container of lidocaine onto the sterile field .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using sterile technique , remove the protective cap from the implant by pulling the cap straight off .
DO NOT TWIST CAP OFF AS IT MAY UNSCREW THE DIFFUSION MODERATOR , CAUSE ITS REMOVAL , OR OTHERWISE DAMAGE THE IMPLANT .
SHOULD DAMAGE OCCUR , DO NOT INSERT THE IMPLANT AS PRODUCT FUNCTION CAN BE IMPAIRED .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Loading the Implanter • The implanter is packaged in the correct configuration for implant loading and insertion .
Make sure the cannula is fully extended as shown , and the actuator is in its most forward position .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Using sterile forceps , slide the implant into the end of the cannula and push until it stops .
When properly loaded , the implant should not protrude more than 1 mm past the bottom of the beveled edge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inserting the Implant • Using aseptic technique , cleanse the insertion site , then drape the patient ' s arm .
After determining the absence of known allergies to the anesthetic agent , infiltrate the site with lidocaine .
Advance the needle to infiltrate the intended 5 cm track for the implant insertion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Determine that anesthesia is adequate .
Make an incision of approximately 5 mm with the scalpel , just through the dermis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Grasp the handle of the implanter and extend the index finger to rest on the back of the actuator as shown .
Insert the cannula tip into the incision with the bevel up and advance it subcutaneously along the intended track .
To ensure subcutaneous placement , the Viadur ® implanter should visibly raise the skin at all times during insertion .
The implanter should not enter muscle tissue , but be well within the subcutaneous space .
Advance the implanter to the depth indicator on the cannula , which indicates the recommended insertion length .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Holding the implanter handle in position , use the index finger to slide the actuator slowly back until it stops .
( This retracts the actuator cannula into the handle , leaving the implant beneath the skin . )
.
Do not pull back on the implanter handle while sliding the actuator back , as this may lead to incorrect positioning of the implant and subsequent extrusion .
Withdraw the implanter from the incision .
Release of the implant can be checked by palpation .
It is important to keep the implanter steady and not to push the implant into the tissue .
After placement , sterile gauze may be used to apply pressure briefly to the insertion site to ensure hemostasis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Cleanse the insertion area .
Press the edges of the incision together , and tightly close the incision with one or two surgical closure strips .
Cover with an adhesive bandage .
Observe the patient for a few minutes for signs of bleeding from the incision before he is discharged .
Instruct the patient to keep the area clean and dry for 24 hours , and to avoid heavy lifting and strenuous physical activity for 48 hours .
The surgical closure strip can be removed as soon as the incision has healed , ie , normally in 3 days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Removal Procedure Viadur ® must be removed following 12 months of therapy .
The position of the patient and the sterile technique are the same as for insertion .
To remove Viadur ® use the Viadur ® Kit or the following sterile items : • 1 scalpel • 1 forceps • 1 syringe • 1 package povidone - iodine swabs • 1 package wound closure strips • 1 - 22 Ga x 1 . 5 ” needle • 1 - 25 Ga x 1 . 5 ” needle • 1 sealed container of lidocaine HCl USP 2 % , 10 mL • 6 gauze sponges • 2 alcohol prep swabs • 1 package skin protectant • 1 bandage • 1 fenestrated drape • 1 marking pen • 1 ruler • 1 mosquito clamp [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing the Site • Inspect the site , palpating the location of the implant .
Mark the position of the implant with marking pen .
Cleanse with povidone - iodine swab .
Drape the area with a fenestrated drape .
Suggestion : If unable to locate by palpation , radiological imaging may be helpful .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • After determining the absence of known allergies to the anesthetic agent , apply a small amount of local anesthetic under the end of the implant nearest the original incision site .
Then advance the needle to infiltrate the tissue along the track .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Removing the Implant • Determine that anesthesia is adequate .
Apply pressure to one end of the implant to elevate the other end .
Make an incision of approximately 5 mm at the elevated end of the implant .
Do not make a large incision .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Continue to apply pressure to the end of the implant to encourage expulsion .
Push the implant gently towards the incision with the fingers .
When the tip is visible or near the incision , grasp it with a clamp and remove .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • If necessary , cut through any fibrous encapsulation with the scalpel to free the implant .
• Properly dispose of removed implant immediately , before opening the vial containing the new implant . If inserting a new Viadur ® , return to section describing INSERTION PROCEDURE .
The new Viadur ® implant may be placed through the same incision site .
Alternatively , the contralateral arm may be used .
• Cleanse insertion site area .
Apply pressure to each end of the incision to close the wound .
Apply one or two surgical closure strips to close the wound tightly , and cover with an adhesive bandage .
Observe the patient for a few minutes for signs of bleeding from the incision before he is discharged .
Instruct the patient to keep the area clean and dry for 24 hours , and to avoid strenuous physical activity for 48 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED Viadur ® is supplied in a box containing 2 inner package trays .
One tray contains a sterile Viadur ® implant in a sealed vial , a sterile Viadur ® implanter and a sealed container of lidocaine HCl USP 2 % , 10 mL .
The other tray constitutes a sterile Viadur ® Kit , which includes : 1 scalpel , 1 forceps , 1 syringe , povidone - iodine swabs , 1 package wound closure strips , 1 - 22 Ga x 1 . 5 ” needle , 1 - 25 Ga x 1 . 5 ” needle , 6 gauze sponges , 2 alcohol prep swabs , 1 package skin protectant , 1 bandage , 1 fenestrated drape , 1 marking pen , 1 ruler , and 1 mosquito clamp .
A physician insert , patient information , and insertion and removal instructions are also provided in the box .
( NDC 0026 - 9711 - 01 ) Rx Only Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] For more information call 1 - 800 - 288 - 8371 or visit www . VIADUR . com .
REFERENCES • Sennello LT et al .
Single - dose pharmacokinetics of leuprolide in humans following intravenous and subcutaneous administration .
J Pharm Sci 1986 ; 75 ( 2 ) : 158 - 160 .
• MacLeod TL et al .
Anaphylactic reaction to synthetic luteinizing hormone - releasing hormone .
Fertil Steril 1987 ; 48 ( 3 ) : 500 - 502 .
Manufactured by : ALZA Corporation Mountain View , CA 94043 U . S . A . Distributed by : Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation 400 Morgan Lane , West Haven , CT 06516 USA Viadur ® and DUROS ® are registered trademarks of ALZA Corporation under license to Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
For further information about the product contact Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
An ALZA DUROS ® Technology Product Edition Date : November 2005 PATIENT INFORMATION ABOUT : Viadur ® ( leuprolide acetate implant ) Important Information for Patients Using Viadur ® for the treatment of symptoms of advanced prostate cancer .
Please read this information before you start using Viadur ® .
Each time another Viadur ® is inserted , check the patient information leaflet for any new information .
Remember , this information does not take the place of your doctor ' s instructions .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have questions or want more information about Viadur ® .
What is Viadur ® ?
Viadur ® is a drug - delivery system that contains the drug leuprolide and is placed under the skin .
It looks like a small , thin metal tube .
After it is placed under the skin , Viadur ® delivers leuprolide to your body continuously for 12 months .
How does Viadur ® work ?
Leuprolide , the active medication in Viadur ® , works by reducing the testosterone produced by the testicles .
This lowers the amount of testosterone in the body .
Testosterone appears to be needed by prostate cancer cells .
Usually prostate cancer shrinks or stops growing when the body ' s supply of testosterone is lowered .
By lowering the amount of testosterone in the body , Viadur ® may help relieve the pain , urinary problems , and other symptoms of prostate cancer .
However , Viadur ® is not a cure for prostate cancer .
Once Viadur ® is removed by your doctor , your body will start producing testosterone again .
How is Viadur ® given ?
Viadur ® will be placed under the skin of your upper , inner arm .
The doctor will numb your arm , make a small incision , and then place Viadur ® under the skin .
The incision will be closed with special surgical tape and covered with a bandage .
You should keep the bandage in place for a few days until the incision heals .
After 12 months , Viadur ® must be removed and may be replaced with a new Viadur ® by your doctor .
What should I avoid while Viadur ® is inserted ?
After Viadur ® is inserted , keep the site clean and dry for 24 hours .
Do not bathe or swim for 24 hours .
Avoid heavy lifting and physical activity for 48 hours .
Avoid bumping the site for a few days .
After the cut has healed , you should be able to go back to your normal activities .
What should I know about using Viadur ® ?
• If you notice unusual bleeding , redness or pain at the insertion site , contact your doctor .
• In the first few weeks of treatment , if you experience increased pain throughout your body , weakness , or numbness , contact your doctor .
• X - rays and MRI do not affect Viadur ® .
• Viadur ® is seen on X - rays .
Slight image distortion around Viadur ® may occur during MRI procedures .
• Viadur ® must be removed and may be replaced after 12 months .
Who should NOT use Viadur ® ?
Do not use Viadur ® if you are allergic to the drug leuprolide .
Do not use Viadur ® if you are a woman .
Viadur ® is not approved for use by women of any age .
Furthermore , use of Viadur ® in a woman who is or may become pregnant may cause harm to the baby .
You may lose your baby through a miscarriage if the drug is used while you are pregnant .
Viadur ® was not studied in children and should not be used in children .
What are the most common side effects of Viadur ® ?
The most common side effects related to Viadur ® were hot flashes , lack of energy , depression , sweating , headache , bruising , and breast enlargement .
Prostate cancer - related symptoms may become worse during the first few weeks of treatment .
Like other similar treatment options , Viadur ® may cause impotence .
There may be some pain and discomfort during and after Viadur ® insertion and removal .
Bruising may occur .
Reactions , such as itching and redness , are usually mild and heal without treatment within two weeks .
If they do not heal , contact your doctor .
There is a chance that your bones may become thinner if you use this type of drug for long periods of time .
Ask your doctor if this is a risk for you .
This list is not a complete list of all the possible side effects .
If you need more information , or are worried about these or other side effects , talk to your doctor or pharmacists .
What tests will my doctor perform during my treatment with Viadur ® ?
Your doctor may measure blood levels of testosterone and prostate - specific antigen ( PSA ) during your treatment with Viadur ® .
Can I take Viadur ® with other medications ?
Tell your doctor or pharmacist about any medicines that you are taking , including Viadur ® , prescription , non - prescription , and herbal remedies .
Do not start taking a new medicine before checking with your doctor or pharmacist .
For more information on Viadur ® , talk to your doctor or pharmacist , call 1 - 800 - 288 - 8371 between 8 : 30 AM and 5 PM Eastern Standard Time , or visit www . VIADUR . com on the Internet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
