Active ingredient Piperonyl butoxide 4 % Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Purpose Lice treatment Warnings For external use only Do not use • near eyes • inside nose , mouth , or vagina • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
Ask a doctor before use if you are • allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • if product gets into eyes , flush with water right away • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • breathing difficulty occurs • eye irritation occurs • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Important : Read warnings before use • Adults and children 2 years and over : Inspect • check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) • look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears • examine small sections of hair at a time • unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair • if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product Treat • apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
• allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer • use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse • for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) • use a fine - tooth or special lice / nit comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
• hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits • if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water • for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of the head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
• lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
• pin back each strand of hair after combing • clean comb often .
Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back .
• after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / nits .
Repeat combing if necessary .
• check daily for any lice / nits that you missed • a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice • if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments • Children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • do not freeze • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • to report serious side effects due to the use of this product call 515 - 276 - 1586 • see package insert for additional information Inactive ingredients ammonium laureth sulfate , fragrance , PEG - 25 hydrogenated castor oil , polyquaternium - 10 , purified water , SD - 40 alcohol Package Insert [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] LEADER MAXIMUM LICE KILLING SHAMPOO A Liquid Pediculicide For Human Use Compare to RID ® LICE KILLING SHAMPOO 4 fl oz ( 118 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
