Active Ingredients TITANIUM DIOXIDE 6 . 7 % ETHYLHEXYL METHOXYCINNAMATE 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Use : Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) it decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings : For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Remove with water and mild cleanser Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age , ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
Decrease this risk by regular use of sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 18 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age , ask a health care professional such as a Doctor .
Inactive Ingredients : aqua , isododecane , cyclopentasiloxane , butylene glycol , propylene glycol , glycerin , dicaprylyl carbonate , disteardimonium hectorite , propylene carbonate , cetyl peg / ppg - 10 / 1 dimethicone , peg - 10 dimethicone , polyglyceryl - 4 isostearate , silica , methicone , dimethicone , dimethicone / vinyl dimethicone crosspolymer , 1 , 2 - hexanediol , hydroxyacetophenone , disodium edta , sodium chloride , magnesium sulfate , magnesium stearate , CI 77491 , CI 77492 , CI 77499 Other information : Store this product in a cool place away from heat or direct sunlight Questions ?
Call toll free 1 - 877 - 438 - 1120 Dist . by / Par : Modern Basic , Burnaby BC / Garden Grove , CA .
Formulated for professional application .
perfect your complexion with this full coverage formulation that is long wearing and blends easily to even out skin tone and has a matte finish this carton is made from recycled paper cruelty free – this product is not tested on animals Made in Canada Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
