Description Clemastine belongs to the benzhydryl ether group of antihistaminic compounds .
The chemical name is ( + ) - ( 2 R ) - 2 - [ 2 - [ [ ( R ) - p - Chloro - α - methyl - α - phenylbenzyl ] - oxy ] ethyl ] - 1 - methylpyrrolidine fumarate ( 1 : 1 ) .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 1 . 34 or 2 . 68 mg of clemastine fumarate .
Inactive Ingredients : Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Corn Starch , Lactose , Povidone , Pregelatinized Starch and Stearic Acid .
Clinical Pharmacology Clemastine fumarate is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative side effects .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for cell receptor sites on effector cells .
The inherently long duration of antihistaminic effects of clemastine fumarate has been demonstrated in wheal and flare studies .
In normal human subjects who received histamine injections over a 24 - hour period , the antihistaminic activity of clemastine reached a peak at 5 - 7 hours , persisted for 10 - 12 hours and , in some cases , for as long as 24 hours .
Pharmacokinetic studies in man utilizing 3 H and 14 C labeled compound demonstrates that : clemastine is rapidly and nearly completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , peak plasma concentrations are attained in 2 - 4 hours , and urinary excretion is the major mode of elimination .
Indications and Usage Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 1 . 34 mg are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis such as sneezing , rhinorrhea , pruritus , and lacrimation .
Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 2 . 68 mg are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis such as sneezing , rhinorrhea , pruritus , and lacrimation .
Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 2 . 68 mg are also indicated for the relief of mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema .
It should be noted that clemastine fumarate is indicated for the dermatologic indications at the 2 . 68 mg dosage level only .
Contraindications Usage in Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Usage in Lower Respiratory Disease Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract symptoms including asthma .
Antihistamines are also contraindicated in the following conditions : Hypersensitivity to clemastine fumarate or other antihistamines of similar chemical structure .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy ( see Drug Interactions section ) .
Warnings Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with : narrow angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , and bladder neck obstruction .
Usage in Children Safety and efficacy of clemastine fumarate have not been established in children under the age of 12 years .
Usage in Pregnancy Experience with this drug in pregnant women is inadequate to determine whether there exists a potential for harm to the developing fetus .
Usage with CNS Depressants Clemastine has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) .
Usage in Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Usage in the Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
Precautions Clemastine fumarate should be used with caution in patients with : history of bronchial asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , and hypertension .
Drug Interactions MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
Adverse Reactions Transient drowsiness , the most common adverse reaction associated with clemastine fumarate , occurs relatively frequently and may require discontinuation of therapy in some instances .
Antihistaminic Compounds It should be noted that the following reactions have occurred with one or more antihistamines and , therefore , should be kept in mind when prescribing drugs belonging to this class , including clemastine .
The most frequent adverse reactions are italicized .
General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of the mouth , nose , and throat .
Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesias , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , hysteria , neuritis , convulsions .
GI System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
GU System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
Overdosage Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in children .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms : dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously the conscious patient should be induced to vomit .
This is best done by having him drink a glass of water or milk after which he should be made to gag .
Precautions against aspiration must be taken , especially in infants and children .
If vomiting is unsuccessful gastric lavage is indicated within 3 hours after ingestion and even later if large amounts of milk or cream were given beforehand .
Isotonic and 1 / 2 isotonic saline is the lavage solution of choice .
Saline cathartics , such as milk of magnesia , by osmosis draw water into the bowel and therefore , are valuable for their action in rapid dilution of bowel content .
Stimulants should not be used .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
Dosage and Administration DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 1 . 34 mg The recommended starting dose is one tablet twice daily .
Dosage may be increased as required , but not to exceed six tablets daily .
Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 2 . 68 mg The maximum recommended dosage is one tablet three times daily .
Many patients respond favorably to a single dose which may be repeated as required , but not to exceed three tablets daily .
How supplied Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 2 . 68 mg are white , round , scored tablets debossed with " 93 " and " 308 " .
Tablets are packaged in bottles of 100 .
Store at controlled room temperature , between 20 o and 25 oC ( 68 o and 77 oF ) ( see USP ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF , with a child - resistant closure .
Label NDC : 51655 - 425 - 04 MFG : 0093 - 0308 - 01 Clemastine Fumarate 2 . 68 mg 16 tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains Clemastine Fumarate , USP .... 2 . 68 mg Dosage : See package insert Store between 68 - 77 degrees F . Protect from moisture Store in a tight , light - resistant container .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg . by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Sellersburg , PA 18960 Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
