Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 10 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse wth water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sund increases your risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF valuse of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , ethylhexyl palmitate , sorbitol , polyamide - 8 , benzyl alcohol , tocopherol , caprylic / capric triglyceride , triethanolamine , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , chlorphenesin , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , oleth - 3 , disodium EDTA * This product is not being compared to Banana Boat SPORT with Powerstay Technology Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 30 for any other purposes nor is this product manufactured or distributed by Edgewell Personal Care , Distributor of Banana Boat .
May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , Inc . , St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 www . mymountainfalls . com 706 . 000 / 706 AA Principal Display Panel mountain falls Compare to Banana Boat paraben free SPF 30 water resistant 80 minutes non - greasy active sport sunscreen lotion BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 Made in the USA with US and foreign parts .
8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
