Description Naloxone hydrochloride , an opioid antagonist , is a synthetic congener of oxymorphone .
In structure it differs from oxymorphone in that the methyl group on the nitrogen atom is replaced by an allyl group .
It is known chemically as 17 - allyl - 4 , 5α - epoxy , 3 - 14 - dihydroxymorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride .
It has a molecular weight of 363 . 84 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Naloxone hydrochloride occurs as a white to slightly off - white powder , and is soluble in water , in dilute acids , and in strong alkali ; slightly soluble in alcohol ; practically insoluble in ether and in chloroform .
Naloxone hydrochloride injection is available as a sterile solution for intravenous , intramuscular , and subcutaneous administration .
Each mL contains 0 . 4 mg of naloxone hydrochloride .
Each mL contains 8 . 9 mg of sodium chloride .
The pH is adjusted between 3 . 0 to 6 . 5 with hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide .
The air in the cartridges has been displaced by nitrogen gas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Naloxone prevents or reverses the effects of opioids including respiratory depression , sedation and hypotension .
Also , it can reverse the psychotomimetic and dysphoric effects of agonist - antagonists such as pentazocine .
Naloxone is an essentially pure opioid antagonist , i . e . , it does not possess the " agonistic " or morphine - like properties characteristic of other opioid antagonists .
When administered in usual doses in the absence of opioids or agonistic effects of other opioid antagonists , it exhibits essentially no pharmacologic activity .
Naloxone has not been shown to produce tolerance or cause physical or psychological dependence .
In the presence of physical dependence on opioids , naloxone will produce withdrawal symptoms .
However , in the presence of opioid dependence , withdrawal symptoms will appear within minutes of naloxone administration and will subside in about 2 hours .
The severity and duration of the withdrawal syndrome are related to the dose of naloxone and to the degree and type of dependence .
While the mechanism of action of naloxone is not fully understood , in vitro evidence suggests that naloxone antagonizes opioid effects by competing for the mu , kappa , and sigma opiate receptor sites in the CNS , with the greatest affinity for the mu receptor .
When naloxone hydrochloride is administered intravenously , the onset of action is generally apparent within two minutes ; the onset of action is slightly less rapid when it is administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
The duration of action is dependent upon the dose and route of administration of naloxone hydrochloride .
Intramuscular administration produces a more prolonged effect than intravenous administration .
Since the duration of action of naloxone may be shorter than that of some opiates , the effects of the opiate may return as the effects of naloxone dissipate .
The requirement for repeat doses of naloxone will also be dependent upon the amount , type and route of administration of the opioid being antagonized .
Adjunctive Use in Septic Shock Naloxone has been shown in some cases of septic shock to produce a rise in blood pressure that may last up to several hours ; however this pressor response has not been demonstrated to improve patient survival .
In some studies , treatment with naloxone in the setting of septic shock has been associated with adverse effects , including agitation , nausea and vomiting , pulmonary edema , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , and seizures .
The decision to use naloxone in septic shock should be exercised with caution , particularly in patients who may have underlying pain or have previously received opioid therapy and may have developed opioid tolerance .
Because of the limited number of patients who have been treated , optimal dosage and treatment regimens have not been established .
Pharmacokinetics Distribution Following parenteral administration , naloxone is rapidly distributed in the body and readily crosses the placenta .
Plasma protein binding occurs but is relatively weak .
Plasma albumin is the major binding constituent but significant binding of naloxone also occurs to plasma constituents other than albumin .
It is not known whether naloxone is excreted into human milk .
Metabolism and Elimination Naloxone is metabolized in the liver primarily by glucuronide conjugation with naloxone - 3 - glucuronide as the major metabolite .
In one study , the serum half - life in adults ranged from 30 to 81 minutes ( mean 64 ± 12 minutes ) .
In a neonatal study , the mean plasma half - life was observed to be 3 . 1 ± 0 . 5 hours .
After an oral or intravenous dose , about 25 - 40 % of the drug is excreted as metabolites in urine within 6 hours , about 50 % in 24 hours , and 60 - 70 % in 72 hours .
Indications and Usage Naloxone hydrochloride injection is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid depression , including respiratory depression , induced by natural and synthetic opioids including propoxyphene , methadone , and certain mixed agonist - antagonist analgesics : nalbuphine , pentazocine , butorphanol , and cyclazocine .
Naloxone hydrochloride is also indicated for the diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdosage .
Naloxone hydrochloride injection may be useful as an adjunctive agent to increase blood pressure in the management of septic shock ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Adjunctive Use in Septic Shock ) .
Contraindications Naloxone hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to naloxone hydrochloride or any of the other ingredients contained in the formulation .
Warnings Drug Dependence Naloxone hydrochloride injection should be administered cautiously to persons including newborns of mothers who are known or suspected to be physically dependent on opioids .
In such cases , an abrupt and complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
The signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in a patient physically dependent on opioids may include , but are not limited to , the following : body aches , diarrhea , tachycardia , fever , runny nose , sneezing , piloerection , sweating , yawning , nausea or vomiting , nervousness , restlessness or irritability , shivering or trembling , abdominal cramps , weakness , and increased blood pressure .
In the neonate , opioid withdrawal may also include : convulsions , excessive crying , and hyperactive reflexes .
Repeat Administration The patient who has satisfactorily responded to naloxone should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of naloxone should be administered , as necessary , since the duration of action of some opioids may exceed that of naloxone .
Respiratory Depression Due to Other Drugs Naloxone is not effective against respiratory depression due to non - opioid drugs and in the management of acute toxicity caused by levopropoxyphene .
Reversal of respiratory depression by partial agonists or mixed agonist / antagonists , such as buprenorphine and pentazocine , may be incomplete or require higher doses of naloxone .
If an incomplete response occurs , respirations should be mechanically assisted as clinically indicated .
Adverse Reactions Postoperative The following adverse events have been associated with the use of naloxone hydrochloride injection in postoperative patients : hypotension , hypertension , ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , dyspnea , pulmonary edema , and cardiac arrest .
Death , coma , and encephalopathy have been reported as sequelae of these events .
Excessive doses of naloxone in postoperative patients may result in significant reversal of analgesia and may cause agitation ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : USAGE IN ADULTS , Postoperative Opioid Depression ) .
Opioid Depression Abrupt reversal of opioid depression may result in nausea , vomiting , sweating , tachycardia , increased blood pressure , tremulousness , seizures , ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , pulmonary edema , and cardiac arrest which may result in death ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Opioid Dependence Abrupt reversal of opioid effects in persons who are physically dependent on opioids may precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome which may include , but is not limited to the following signs and symptoms : body aches , fever , sweating , runny nose , sneezing , piloerection , yawning , weakness , shivering or trembling , nervousness , restlessness or irritability , diarrhea , nausea or vomiting , abdominal cramps , increased blood pressure , tachycardia .
In the neonate , opioid withdrawal may also include : convulsions , excessive crying , and hyperactive reflexes ( see WARNINGS ) .
Adverse events associated with the postoperative use of naloxone hydrochloride injection are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of frequency as follows : Cardiac Disorders : pulmonary edema , cardiac arrest or failure , tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation , and ventricular tachycardia .
Death , coma , and encephalopathy have been reported as sequelae of these events .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : vomiting , nausea Nervous System Disorders : convulsions , paraesthesia , grand mal convulsion Psychiatric Disorders : agitation , hallucination , tremulousness Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders : dyspnea , respiratory depression , hypoxia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : nonspecific injection site reactions , sweating Vascular Disorders : hypertension , hypotension , hot flushes , or flushing See also PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : USAGE IN ADULTS , Postoperative Opioid Depression .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Naloxone hydrochloride injection is an opioid antagonist .
Physical dependence associated with the use of naloxone hydrochloride injection has not been reported .
Tolerance to the opioid antagonist effect of naloxone is not known to occur .
Overdosage There is limited clinical experience with naloxone hydrochloride injection overdosage in humans .
Adult Patients In one small study , volunteers who received 24 mg / 70 kg did not demonstrate toxicity .
In another study , 36 patients with acute stroke received a loading dose of 4 mg / kg ( 10 mg / m2 / min ) of naloxone hydrochloride injection followed immediately by 2 mg / kg / hr for 24 hours .
Twenty - three patients experienced adverse events associated with naloxone use , and naloxone was discontinued in seven patients because of adverse effects .
The most serious adverse events were : seizures ( 2 patients ) , severe hypertension ( 1 ) , and hypotension and / or bradycardia ( 3 ) .
At doses of 2 mg / kg in normal subjects , cognitive impairment and behavioral symptoms , including irritability , anxiety , tension , suspiciousness , sadness , difficulty concentrating , and lack of appetite have been reported .
In addition , somatic symptoms , including dizziness , heaviness , sweating , nausea , and stomachaches were also reported .
Although complete information is not available , behavioral symptoms were reported to often persist for 2 to 3 days .
Pediatric Patients Up to 11 doses of 0 . 2 mg naloxone ( 2 . 2 mg ) have been administered to children following overdose of diphenoxylate hydrochloride with atropine sulfate .
Pediatric reports include a 2 ½ year - old child who inadvertently received a dose of 20 mg naloxone for treatment of respiratory depression following overdose with diphenoxylate hydrochloride with atropine sulfate .
The child responded well and recovered without adverse sequelae .
There is also a report of a 4 ½ year - old child who received 11 doses during a 12 - hour period , with no adverse sequelae .
Patient Management Patients who experience a naloxone overdose should be treated symptomatically in a closely supervised environment .
Physicians should contact a poison control center for the most up - to - date patient management information .
Dosage and Administration Naloxone hydrochloride injection may be administered intravenously , intramuscularly , or subcutaneously .
The most rapid onset of action is achieved by intravenous administration and it is recommended in emergency situations .
Since the duration of action of some opioids may exceed that of naloxone the patient should be kept under continued surveillance .
Repeated doses of naloxone should be administered , as necessary .
Intravenous Infusion Naloxone hydrochloride injection may be diluted for intravenous infusion in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride or 5 % dextrose injection .
The addition of 2 mg of naloxone hydrochloride in 500 mL of either solution provides a concentration of 0 . 004 mg / mL .
Mixtures should be used within 24 hours .
After 24 hours , the remaining unused solution must be discarded .
The rate of administration should be titrated in accordance with the patient ' s response .
Naloxone hydrochloride injection should not be mixed with preparations containing bisulfite , metabisulfite , long - chain or high molecular weight anions , or any solution having an alkaline pH . No drug or chemical agent should be added to naloxone hydrochloride injection unless its effect on the chemical and physical stability of the solution has first been established .
General Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
USAGE IN ADULTS Opioid Overdose – Known or Suspected .
An initial dose of 0 . 4 mg to 2 mg of naloxone hydrochloride may be administered intravenously .
If the desired degree of counteraction and improvement in respiratory functions is not obtained , it may be repeated at two to three minute intervals .
If no response is observed after 10 mg of naloxone hydrochloride have been administered , the diagnosis of opioid - induced or partial opioid - induced toxicity should be questioned .
Intramuscular or subcutaneous administration may be necessary if the intravenous route is not available .
Postoperative Opioid - Induced Depression .
For the partial reversal of opioid depression following the use of opioids during surgery , smaller doses of naloxone hydrochloride are usually sufficient .
The dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be titrated according to the patient ' s response .
For the initial reversal of respiratory depression , naloxone hydrochloride should be injected in increments of 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg intravenously at two to three minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal , i . e . , adequate ventilation and alertness without significant pain or discomfort .
Larger than necessary dosage of naloxone may result in significant reversal of analgesia and increase in blood pressure .
Similarly , too rapid reversal may induce nausea , vomiting , sweating or circulatory stress .
Repeat doses of naloxone may be required within one to two hour intervals depending upon the amount , type ( i . e . , short or long acting ) and time interval since last administration of opioid .
Supplemental intramuscular doses have been shown to produce a longer lasting effect .
Septic Shock : The optimal dosage of naloxone hydrochloride or duration of therapy for the treatment of hypotension in septic shock patients has not been established ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
USAGE IN CHILDREN Opioid Overdose – Known or Suspected .
The usual initial dose in children is 0 . 01 mg / kg body weight given intravenously .
If this dose does not result in the desired degree of clinical improvement , a subsequent dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg body weight may be administered .
If an intravenous route of administration is not available , naloxone may be administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously in divided doses .
If necessary , naloxone hydrochloride injection can be diluted with sterile water for injection .
Postoperative Opioid Depression .
Follow the recommendations and cautions under Adult Postoperative Opioid Depression .
For the initial reversal of respiratory depression naloxone hydrochloride should be injected in increments of 0 . 005 mg to 0 . 01 mg intravenously at two to three minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal .
USAGE IN NEONATES Opioid - Induced Depression .
The usual initial dose is 0 . 01 mg / kg body weight administered intravenously , intramuscularly or subcutaneously .
This dose may be repeated in accordance with adult administration guidelines for postoperative opioid depression .
How Supplied Naloxone hydrochloride injection , USP for intravenous , intramuscular , and subcutaneous administration is available as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use of the Syringe Systems Instructions for using the Carpuject Syringe are available with the reusable Carpuject Holder , List 2049 - 02 .
Protect from light .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 1782 - 69 1 mL fill in 2 . 5 mL Carpuject ™ Single - dose cartridge with Luer Lock for the Carpuject ™ Syringe System NDC 0404 - 9920 - 01 1 1 mL fill in 2 . 5 mL Carpuject ™ Single - dose cartridge with Luer Lock for the Carpuject ™ Syringe System in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 0409 - 1782 - 03 ) 0 . 4 mg / mL Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1215 - 2 . 0 Revised : 4 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
