1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DUREZOL is a topical corticosteroid that is indicated for : • The treatment of inflammation and pain associated with ocular surgery .
( 1 . 1 ) • The treatment of endogenous anterior uveitis .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Ocular Surgery DUREZOL ® ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % , a topical corticosteroid , is indicated for the treatment of inflammation and pain associated with ocular surgery .
1 . 2 Endogenous Anterior Uveitis DUREZOL is also indicated for the treatment of endogenous anterior uveitis .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For the treatment of inflammation and pain associated with ocular surgery , instill one drop into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye 4 times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period , followed by 2 times daily for a week and then a taper based on the response .
( 2 . 1 ) • For the treatment of endogenous anterior uveitis , instill one drop into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye 4 times daily for 14 days followed by tapering as clinically indicated .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Ocular Surgery Instill one drop into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye 4 times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period , followed by 2 times daily for a week and then a taper based on the response .
2 . 2 Endogenous Anterior Uveitis Instill one drop into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye 4 times daily for 14 days followed by tapering as clinically indicated .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS DUREZOL contains 0 . 05 % difluprednate as a sterile preserved emulsion for topical ophthalmic administration .
DUREZOL contains 0 . 05 % difluprednate , as a sterile preserved ophthalmic emulsion for topical ophthalmic use only .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of DUREZOL , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most active viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal disease of ocular structures .
DUREZOL , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most active viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) Increase : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cataracts : Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed Healing : The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 28 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
( 5 . 3 ) • Bacterial Infections : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be reevaluated .
( 5 . 4 ) • Viral Infections : Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
( 5 . 5 ) • Fungal Infections : Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Intraocular Pressure Increase Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure ( IOP ) should be monitored .
5 . 2 Cataracts Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Healing The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 28 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy , and where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 4 Bacterial Infections Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be reevaluated .
5 . 5 Viral Infections Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
5 . 6 Fungal Infections Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal culture should be taken when appropriate .
5 . 7 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only DUREZOL is not indicated for intraocular administration .
5 . 8 Contact Lens Wear DUREZOL should not be instilled while wearing contact lenses .
Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of DUREZOL .
The preservative in DUREZOL may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of DUREZOL .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious reactions are found elsewhere in the labeling : • Elevated IOP [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Posterior subcapsular cataract formation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Secondary ocular infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Perforation of the globe [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Ocular Surgery Ocular adverse reactions occurring in 5 % to 15 % of subjects in clinical studies with DUREZOL , included corneal edema , ciliary and conjunctival hyperemia , eye pain , photophobia , posterior capsule opacification , anterior chamber cells , anterior chamber flare , conjunctival edema , and blepharitis .
Other ocular adverse reactions occurring in 1 % to 5 % of subjects , included reduced visual acuity , punctate keratitis , eye inflammation , and iritis .
Ocular adverse reactions occurring in less than 1 % of subjects , included application - site discomfort or irritation , corneal pigmentation and striae , episcleritis , eye pruritus , eyelid irritation and crusting , foreign body sensation , increased lacrimation , macular edema , sclera hyperemia , and uveitis .
Most of these reactions may have been the consequence of the surgical procedure .
6 . 2 Endogenous Anterior Uveitis A total of 200 subjects participated in the clinical trials for endogenous anterior uveitis , of which 106 were exposed to DUREZOL .
The most common adverse reactions of those exposed to DUREZOL occurring in 5 % to 10 % of subjects included blurred vision , eye irritation , eye pain , headache , increased IOP , iritis , limbal and conjunctival hyperemia , punctate keratitis , and uveitis .
Adverse reactions occurring in 2 % to 5 % of subjects included anterior chamber flare , corneal edema , dry eye , iridocyclitis , photophobia , and reduced visual acuity .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Difluprednate has been shown to be embryotoxic ( decrease in embryonic body weight and a delay in embryonic ossification ) and teratogenic ( cleft palate and skeletal anomalies ) when administered subcutaneously to rabbits during organogenesis at a dose of 1 to 10 mcg / kg / day .
The no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) for these effects was 1 mcg / kg / day and 10 mcg / kg / day was considered to be a teratogenic dose that was concurrently found in the toxic dose range for fetuses and pregnant females .
Treatment of rats with 10 mcg / kg / day subcutaneously during organogenesis did not result in any reproductive toxicity , nor was it maternally toxic .
At 100 mcg / kg / day after subcutaneous administration in rats , there was a decrease in fetal weights and delay in ossification , and effects on weight gain in the pregnant females .
It is difficult to extrapolate these doses of difluprednate to maximum daily human doses of DUREZOL , since DUREZOL is administered topically with minimal systemic absorption , and difluprednate blood levels were not measured in the reproductive animal studies .
However , since use of difluprednate during human pregnancy has not been evaluated and cannot rule out the possibility of harm , DUREZOL should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Caution should be exercised when DUREZOL is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use DUREZOL was evaluated in a 3 - month multicenter , double - masked trial in 79 pediatric patients ( 39 DUREZOL ; 40 prednisolone acetate ) 0 to 3 years of age for the treatment of inflammation following cataract surgery .
A similar safety profile was observed in pediatric patients comparing DUREZOL to prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension , 1 % .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION DUREZOL ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % is a sterile , topical anti - inflammatory corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name is 6α , 9 difluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - acetate 17 - butyrate ( CAS number 23674 - 86 - 4 ) .
Difluprednate is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Difluprednate has a molecular weight of 508 . 56 g / mol , and the empirical formula is C27H34F2O7 .
Each mL of DUREZOL contains : ACTIVE : difluprednate 0 . 5 mg ( 0 . 05 % ) ; INACTIVE : boric acid , castor oil , edetate disodium , glycerin , polysorbate 80 , sodium acetate , sodium hydroxide ( to adjust the pH to 5 . 2 to 5 . 8 ) , water for injection .
The emulsion is essentially isotonic with a tonicity of 304 to 411 mOsm / kg .
PRESERVATIVE : sorbic acid 0 . 1 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and may delay or slow healing .
They inhibit edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation , such as prostaglandins and leukotreines by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Difluprednate is structurally similar to other corticosteroids .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Difluprednate undergoes deacetylation in vivo to 6α , 9 - difluoroprednisolone 17 - butyrate ( DFB ) , an active metabolite of difluprednate .
Clinical pharmacokinetic studies of difluprednate after repeat ocular instillation of 2 drops of difluprednate ( 0 . 01 % or 0 . 05 % ) 4 times per day for 7 days showed that DFB levels in blood were below the quantification limit ( 50 ng / mL ) at all time points for all subjects , indicating the systemic absorption of difluprednate after ocular instillation of DUREZOL is limited .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Difluprednate was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames test , and in cultured mammalian cells CHL / IU ( a fibroblastic cell line derived from the lungs of newborn female Chinese hamsters ) .
An in vivo micronucleus test of difluprednate in mice was also negative .
Treatment of male and female rats with subcutaneous difluprednate up to 10 mcg / kg / day prior to and during mating did not impair fertility in either gender .
Long - term studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of difluprednate .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In multiple studies performed in rodents and nonrodents , subchronic and chronic toxicity tests of difluprednate showed systemic effects , such as suppression of body weight gain ; a decrease in lymphocyte count ; atrophy of the lymphatic glands and adrenal gland ; and for local effects , thinning of the skin ; all of which were due to the pharmacologic action of the molecule and are well known glucocorticosteroid effects .
Most , if not all of these effects were reversible after drug withdrawal .
The NOEL for the subchronic and chronic toxicity tests were consistent between species and ranged from 1 - 1 . 25 mcg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Ocular Surgery Clinical efficacy was evaluated in 2 randomized , double - masked , placebo - controlled trials in which subjects with an anterior chamber cell grade greater than or equal to " 2 " ( a cell count of 11 or higher ) after cataract surgery were assigned to DUREZOL or placebo ( vehicle ) following surgery .
One drop of DUREZOL or vehicle was self - instilled either 2 times per day or 4 times per day for 14 days , beginning the day after surgery .
The presence of complete clearing ( a cell count of 0 ) was assessed 3 , 8 , and 15 days post surgery using a slit lamp binocular microscope .
In the intent - to - treat analyses of both studies , a significant benefit was seen in the 4 times per day DUREZOL - treated group in ocular inflammation , at Days 8 and 15 , and reduction of pain at Days 3 , 8 , and 15 when compared with placebo .
The consolidated clinical trial results are provided below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Endogenous Anterior Uveitis Clinical efficacy was evaluated in two randomized , double masked active controlled trials in which patients who presented with endogenous anterior uveitis were treated with either DUREZOL 4 times daily or prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % , 8 times daily for 14 days .
Both studies demonstrated that DUREZOL was equally effective as prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % in treating subjects with endogenous anterior uveitis .
The results are found in Table 1 below .
Table 1 : Mean Change from Baseline in Anterior Chamber Cell Grade * Abbreviation : CI , confidence interval .
* With 5 grades : 0 = 0 cells ; 1 = 1 to 10 cells ; 2 = 11 to 20 cells ; 3 = 21 to 50 cells ; and 4 = greater than 50 cells .
† Adjusted for baseline AC cell grade and study center and based on ITT dataset with LOCF for missing data .
Study 1 Time Point DUREZOL N = 57 Prednisolone Acetate N = 53 Difference † ( 95 % CI ) Baseline 2 . 6 2 . 5 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 22 , 0 . 28 ) Day 3 - 1 . 0 - 1 . 0 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 35 , 0 . 25 ) Day 7 - 1 . 6 - 1 . 5 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 31 , 0 . 25 ) Day 14 - 2 . 0 - 1 . 8 - 0 . 2 ( - 0 . 46 , 0 . 10 ) Day 21 - 2 . 2 - 1 . 9 - 0 . 3 ( - 0 . 53 , 0 . 01 ) Day 28 - 2 . 2 - 2 . 1 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 37 , 0 . 18 ) Day 35 - 2 . 1 - 2 . 0 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 39 , 0 . 20 ) Day 42 - 2 . 1 - 2 . 1 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 27 , 0 . 34 ) Study 2 Time Point DUREZOL N = 50 Prednisolone Acetate N = 40 Difference † ( 95 % CI ) Baseline 2 . 4 2 . 4 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 21 , 0 . 29 ) Day 3 - 0 . 9 - 0 . 9 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 34 , 0 . 25 ) Day 7 - 1 . 7 - 1 . 6 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 35 , 0 . 21 ) Day 14 - 1 . 9 - 1 . 8 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 34 , 0 . 20 ) Day 21 - 2 . 0 - 2 . 0 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 25 , 0 . 28 ) Day 28 - 2 . 0 - 2 . 0 0 . 0 ( - 0 . 21 , 0 . 26 ) Day 35 - 2 . 1 - 2 . 0 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 32 , 0 . 16 ) Day 42 - 2 . 0 - 1 . 9 - 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 36 , 0 . 24 ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING DUREZOL ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % is a sterile , aqueous topical ophthalmic emulsion supplied in an opaque plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip and a pink cap in the following sizes : 5 mL in a 8 mL bottleNDC 0078 - 0862 - 25 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
When not in use , keep the bottles in the protective carton .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Risk of Contamination This product is sterile when packaged .
Advise patients not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the emulsion .
Use of the same bottle for both eyes is not recommended with topical eye drops that are used in association with surgery .
Risk of Secondary Infection If pain develops , or if redness , itching , or inflammation becomes aggravated , advise patients to consult a physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Contact Lens Wear DUREZOL should not be instilled while wearing contact lenses .
Advise patients to remove contact lenses prior to instillation of DUREZOL .
The preservative in DUREZOL may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of DUREZOL .
© Novartis Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 T2020 - 138 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0862 - 25 Rx Only DUREZOL ® ( difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % Sterile 5 mL NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
