4R3629 , 4R3644 , 4R3647 Fresenius Kabi Fenwal Blood - Pack Units Rx only Using Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) and Fenwal HighFlo Needle Contains Sample Diversion for the collection of whole blood samples for laboratory testing .
Instructions for Use Collection Procedure : Use aseptic technique .
• Note : If Sample Diversion System is not used , donor samples may be collected using an alternate method following standard procedures .
Note : Nominal tubing dimensions of product are 0 . 118 " inner diameter x 0 . 025 " wall thickness .
Precautions : • • Upon removal of Blood - Pack unit from the clear plastic overwrap , visually inspect the unit .
• • Do not use the product if the in - line cannula is broken and / or anticoagulant is present in the sample pouch or in the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle ( see Figure 1 ) .
Note that condensation in the empty tubing of the Blood - Pack unit is expected as a result of the sterilization process .
• • Do not use unless the solution is clear .
• 1 .
Identify Blood - Pack unit using appropriate donor identification system .
• 2 .
Donor scale • • Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight .
• • Position primary container on the donor scale as far as possible below donor arm .
• 3 .
Clamp donor tubing between the Fenwal HighFlo1 needle and Y - junction .
( This step can be performed prior to step 1 or 2 . )
• 4 .
Visually inspect the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle , as well as the sample pouch to reconfirm that there is no anticoagulant present .
• Note : Ensure that the sample pouch remains below the donor ’ s arm .
• 5 .
Following blood center procedures , apply pressure to donor ’ s arm and disinfect site of venipuncture .
• 6 .
Remove needle cover per instructions below : • • Holding the hub and cover near the tamper - evident seal , twist cover and hub in opposite directions to break seal .
• • Remove needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
• 7 .
Following blood center procedures , perform venipuncture , appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing and release hemostat .
• 8 .
When good blood flow is established , stabilize the front of the needle guard to arm with tape .
( see Figure 2 ) • 9 .
Allow the sample pouch to fill with blood according to center procedure .
Monitor blood flow into sample pouch .
Notes : • • The sample pouch contains an average fill volume of approximately 53 mL with a maximum fill volume of approximately 60 mL when filled to capacity .
• • If less blood sample volume is required , the flow to the sample pouch may be stopped prior to completely filling the pouch .
For example , in order to target a fill volume of approximately 40 mL , fill to the level indicated by the arrows in Figure 1 .
Ensure the pouch is hanging vertically .
• • The tube leading from the Y - junction to the sample pouch contains an additional volume of approximately 2 mL .
Precautions : • • Do not elevate or squeeze the sample pouch as this could cause blood to backflow from the sample pouch into the collection system .
• • Once the sample pouch is filled to desired volume , complete steps 10 - 18 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing and / or sample pouch .
• 10 .
Close the blue clamp on tubing between the Y - junction and the sample pouch .
• 11 .
Break the in - line cannula below the Y - junction in the donor tubing to the primary container allowing blood collection to proceed .
To completely break the in - line cannula , grasp with both hands .
Snap it at a 90 ° angle in one direction , and then bend it at a 90 ° angle in the opposite direction .
Ensure the in - line cannula is completely broken and that the blood flows freely to the primary container .
Precaution : Failure to break the in - line cannula completely may result in restricted blood flow .
12 .
Following blood center procedures , mix blood and anticoagulant in the primary container immediately and at several intervals during collection .
13 .
Following blood center procedures , hermetically seal the tubing between the sampling site and the Y - junction to maintain sterility of the blood collection system prior to removing blood samples .
Warning : • • Do not proceed with the remaining steps until the tubing leading to the sample pouch is hermetically sealed between the sampling site and the Y - junction .
To maintain the whole blood collection container as a closed system , the tubing between the sample pouch and Y - junction must be hermetically sealed prior to inserting the access device into the sampling site .
Failure to do so may lead to contamination of the whole blood collection .
14 .
Insert the access device by pushing firmly into the sampling site until the membrane seal is penetrated .
Note : If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon insertion to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
15 .
Open the cap on the access device ( if applicable ) .
Hold access device so that the sample pouch hangs down .
16 .
Directly align the vacuum sample tube with the internal needle in the access device .
Insert vacuum sample tube into device .
17 .
Allow vacuum sample tube to fill with blood then remove from the access device .
18 .
Repeat steps 16 and 17 until the desired number of vacuum sample tubes have been filled .
• • Notes : • • If the access device needs to be replaced , clamp the tubing between the sampling site and the sample pouch .
Then , grasp base of sampling site with one hand and pull the access device out with the other hand .
Firmly insert the new access device .
Remove clamp and continue sampling .
• • If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon removal to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
• • The access device can only be replaced one time .
Precaution : When replacing access device , be careful to avoid contact with any blood droplets on the Luer or sampling site .
Discard used access device appropriately .
19 .
Collect the appropriate volume based on Blood - Pack unit used .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on Blood - Pack unit ± 10 % .
Precaution : Once the desired blood volume is collected , complete steps 20 - 23 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing .
20 .
Release pressure on the donor ’ s arm .
If appropriate , apply clamp to donor tubing between the needle and the Y - junction .
21 .
Hermetically seal donor tubing near in - line cannula on side leading to the primary container .
22 .
Withdrawal of Needle ( see Figure 3 ) Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
• a ) Place folded sterile gauze over puncture site and hold in place with finger tip without exerting pressure .
• b ) Hold sides of needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the hub back smoothly until the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
• c ) Confirm the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
23 .
Strip blood from donor tubing into primary container , mix and allow the tubing to refill ; repeat once .
24 .
Seal at X marks on donor tubing to provide numbered aliquots of anticoagulated blood for typing or crossmatching .
Note : Step 25 may be performed prior to step 23 or 24 if desired .
25 .
Remove and discard the Sample Diversion System and the donor needle in the needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following established procedures .
• Component Preparation : Notes : • • If a platelet concentrate is to be prepared , it should be separated from the red blood cells within 8 hours after blood collection .
• • Fresh frozen plasma should be separated from the red blood cells and placed in the freezer at - 18 ° C or colder within 8 hours after blood collection .
• 26 .
At the appropriate time , prepare the Blood - Pack unit for centrifugation by thoroughly mixing the primary container end over end , then load the unit in a centrifuge cup per the instructions on Page 3 .
• 27 .
Following centrifugation , remove containers from the centrifugation cup taking care not to disturb the red blood cell / plasma interface .
28 .
Place primary container in plasma extractor and express plasma into the appropriate empty Transfer Pack container by releasing pressure plate and opening closure in tubing of primary container .
29 .
When desired amount of plasma has been removed , clamp tubing between Y and plasma container .
30 .
Seal transfer tubing in three places between the Y - connector and primary container .
Cut middle seal being careful to avoid fluid splatter .
31 .
For further processing with multiple Blood - Pack units , use standard component processing and storage techniques .
32 .
Store suspended CPDA - 1 Whole Blood / Red Blood Cells between 1 and 6 ° C . 33 .
Infuse CPDA - 1 Whole Blood / Red Blood Cells within 35 days of collection .
Warning : Failure to achieve closed system processing conditions negates the extended storage claim and the red blood cell product must be transfused within 24 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Definition of “ Controlled Room Temperature ” : “ A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
Provided the mean kinetic temperature remains in the allowed range , transient spikes up to 40 ° C are permitted as long as they do not exceed 24 hours ... The mean kinetic temperature is a calculated value that may be used as an isothermal storage temperature that simulates the non isothermal effects of storage temperature variations . ”
Reference : United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc . 12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD .
1 Van der Meer , P . F . , & de Korte , D . “ Increase of blood donation speed by optimizing the needle - to - tubing connection : an application of donation software . ”
Vox Sanguinis 2009 , 97 : 21 - 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sorvall is a trademark of Thermo Fisher Scientific LLC .
© 2019 Fresenius Kabi AG .
All rights reserved Manufacturer Fresenius Kabi AG 61346 Bad Homburg / Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com 1 - 800 - 933 - 6925 47 - 23 - 13 - 525 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL Code 4R3644 12 Units Fresenius Kabi Fenwal Blood - Pack Unit Quadruple Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) For Collection and Processing of 500 mL Blood Sample Diversion System , 16 ga .
Ultra Thin Wall Fenwal HighFlo Needle Rx only Each unit consists of a primary container with 70 mL of CPDA - 1 solution containing 2 . 23 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 1 . 84 g Sodium Citrate ( dihydrate ) USP , 209 mg Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) USP , 155 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( monohydrate ) USP and 19 . 3 mg Adenine USP , pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide ; three empty 400 mL Transfer - Pack containers .
Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path .
See instructions for use .
Single use only Store at Controlled Room Temperature ( refer to direction insert ) .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
• • Open pouch by tearing across at notch .
• • Direct handling of product surfaces prior to extended storage in the foil pouch , may result in mold growth .
• • Unused units in open foil pouch may be kept up to 60 days by folding and securing open end of foil pouch to prevent possible loss of moisture , provided : • I . Units are not removed from foil pouch , or • II . Unused units removed from foil pouch are returned to the foil pouch within 12 hours .
Units may be removed from the pouch and returned only once .
• • Units removed from the foil pouch ( that are not returned to the pouch within 12 hours ) must be used within 4 days ( 96 hours ) .
Units out of the foil pouch for longer than 96 hours must be discarded .
Manufacturer Fresenius Kabi AG 61346 Bad Homburg / Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com Made in US 47 - 28 - 13 - 531 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
