To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Oxacillin Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Oxacillin Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Oxacillin Injection , USP is a sterile injectable product containing oxacillin which is added as oxacillin sodium , a semisynthetic penicillin derived from the penicillin nucleus , 6 - aminopenicillanic acid .
The chemical name of oxacillin sodium is 4 - Thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid , 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 6 - [ [ ( 5 - methyl - 3 - phenyl - 4 - isoxazolyl ) carbonyl ] - amino ] - 7 - oxo - , monosodium salt , monohydrate , [ 2 S - ( 2α , 5α , 6ß ) ] - .
It is resistant to inactivation by the enzyme penicillinase ( beta - lactamase ) .
The molecular formula of oxacillin sodium is C19H18N3NaO5S • H2O .
The molecular weight is 441 . 44 .
The structural formula of oxacillin sodium is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxacillin Injection , USP is a frozen , iso - osmotic , sterile , nonpyrogenic premixed 50 mL solution containing 1 g or 2 g of oxacillin added as oxacillin sodium .
Dextrose , USP has been added to the above dosages to adjust osmolality ( approximately 1 . 5 g and 300 mg as dextrose hydrous to the 1 g and 2 g dosages respectively ) .
Sodium Citrate Hydrous , USP has been added as a buffer ( approximately 150 mg and 300 mg to the 1 g and 2 g dosages , respectively ) .
The pH has been adjusted with hydrochloric acid and may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
The pH is 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 5 ) .
The solution is intended for intravenous use after thawing to room temperature .
This GALAXY container ( PL 2040 ) is fabricated from a specially designed multilayer plastic ( PL 2040 ) .
Solutions are in contact with the polyethylene layer of this container and can leach out certain chemical components of the plastic in very small amounts within the expiration period .
The suitability of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to the USP biological tests for plastic containers , as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Intravenous administration provides peak serum levels approximately 5 minutes after the injection is completed .
Slow I . V . administration of 500 mg gives a peak serum level of 43 mcg / mL after 5 minutes with a half - life of 20 - 30 minutes .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins bind to serum protein , mainly albumin .
The degree of protein binding reported for oxacillin is 94 . 2 % ± 2 . 1 % .
Reported values vary with the method of study and the investigator .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins vary in the extent to which they are distributed in the body fluids .
With normal doses , insignificant concentrations are found in the cerebrospinal fluid and aqueous humor .
All the drugs in this class are found in therapeutic concentrations in the pleural , bile , and amniotic fluids .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins are rapidly excreted primarily as unchanged drug in the urine by glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion .
The elimination half - life for oxacillin is about 0 . 5 hours .
Nonrenal elimination includes hepatic inactivation and excretion in bile .
Probenecid blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins .
Therefore , the concurrent administration of probenecid prolongs the elimination of oxacillin and , consequently , increases the serum concentration .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Penicillinase - resistant penicillins exert a bactericidal action against penicillin susceptible microorganisms during the state of active multiplication .
All penicillins inhibit the biosynthesis of the bacterial cell wall .
Resistance Resistance to penicillins may be mediated by destruction of the beta - lactam ring by a beta - lactamase , altered affinity of penicillin for target , or decreased penetration of the antibiotic to reach the target site .
Resistance to oxacillin ( or cefoxitin ) implies resistance to all other beta - lactam agents , except newer agents with activity against methicillin - resistant Staphylococcus aureus .
Susceptibility Test Methods For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : http : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxacillin is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by penicillinase producing staphylococci which have demonstrated susceptibility to the drug .
Cultures and susceptibility tests should be performed initially to determine the causative organism and its susceptibility to the drug .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Susceptibility Test Methods . )
Oxacillin may be used to initiate therapy in suspected cases of resistant staphylococcal infections prior to the availability of susceptibility test results .
Oxacillin should not be used in infections caused by organisms susceptible to penicillin G .
If the susceptibility tests indicate that the infection is due to an organism other than a resistant Staphylococcus , therapy should not be continued with oxacillin .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Oxacillin Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Oxacillin Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of a hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reaction to any penicillin is a contraindication .
Solutions containing dextrose may be contraindicated in patients with known allergy to corn or corn products .
WARNINGS Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic shock with collapse ) reactions have occurred in patients receiving penicillin .
The incidence of anaphylactic shock in all penicillin - treated patients is between 0 . 015 and 0 . 04 percent .
Anaphylactic shock resulting in death has occurred in approximately 0 . 002 percent of the patients treated .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following parenteral administration , it has occurred in patients receiving oral penicillins .
When penicillin therapy is indicated , it should be initiated only after a comprehensive patient drug and allergy history has been obtained .
If an allergic reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued and the patient should receive supportive treatment , e . g . , artificial maintenance of ventilation , pressor amines , antihistamines , and corticosteroids .
Individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity may also experience allergic reactions when treated with a cephalosporin .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Oxacillin Injection , USP , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Oxacillin should generally not be administered to patients with a history of sensitivity to any penicillin .
Penicillin should be used with caution in individuals with histories of significant allergies and / or asthma .
Whenever allergic reactions occur , penicillin should be withdrawn unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening and amenable only to penicillin therapy .
The use of antibiotics may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
If new infections due to bacteria or fungi occur , the drug should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken .
Prescribing Oxacillin Injection , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Laboratory Tests Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to oxacillin should be performed .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Microbiology . )
In the treatment of suspected staphylococcal infections , therapy should be changed to another active agent if culture tests fail to demonstrate the presence of staphylococci .
Periodic assessment of organ system function including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic should be made during prolonged therapy with oxacillin .
Blood cultures , white blood cell , and differential cell counts should be obtained prior to initiation of therapy and at least weekly during therapy with oxacillin .
Periodic urinalysis , blood urea nitrogen , and creatinine determinations should be performed during therapy with oxacillin and dosage alterations should be considered if these values become elevated .
If any impairment of renal function is suspected or known to exist , a reduction in the total dosage should be considered and blood levels monitored to avoid possible neurotoxic reactions .
AST ( SGOT ) and ALT ( SGPT ) values should be obtained periodically during therapy to monitor for possible liver function abnormalities .
Drug Interactions Tetracycline , a bacteriostatic antibiotic , may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided .
Oxacillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been conducted with these drugs .
Studies on reproduction ( nafcillin ) in rats and rabbits reveal no fetal or maternal abnormalities before conception and continuously through weaning ( one generation ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies performed in the mouse , rat , and rabbit have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Human experience with the penicillins during pregnancy has not shown any positive evidence of adverse effects on the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women showing conclusively that harmful effects of these drugs on the fetus can be excluded .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Penicillins are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when penicillins are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Because of incompletely developed renal function in pediatric patients , oxacillin may not be completely excreted , with abnormally high blood levels resulting .
Frequent blood levels are advisable in this group with dosage adjustments when necessary .
All pediatric patients treated with penicillins should be monitored closely for clinical and laboratory evidence of toxic or adverse effects .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
The potential for toxic effects in pediatric patients from chemicals that may leach from the single dose premixed intravenous preparation in plastic containers has not been evaluated .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Oxacillin injection did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Oxacillin Injection contains 92 . 4 mg ( 4 . 02 mEq ) of sodium per gram .
At the usual recommended doses , patients would receive between 92 . 4 and 554 mg / day ( 4 . 02 and 24 . 1 mEq ) of sodium .
The geriatric population may respond with a blunted natriuresis to salt loading .
This may be clinically important with regard to such diseases as congestive heart failure .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Oxacillin Injection , USP should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Oxacillin Injection , USP is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Oxacillin Injection , USP or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0 . 7 to 10 percent ( see WARNINGS ) .
Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated .
In such cases , it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines .
Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically , immediate and delayed .
Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema , laryngospasm , bronchospasm , hypotension , vascular collapse and death .
Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare ( see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy .
Another type of immediate reaction , an accelerated reaction , may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria , pruritus , and fever .
Although laryngeal edema , laryngospasm , and hypotension occasionally occur , fatality is uncommon .
Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy .
Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness - like symptoms ( i . e . , fever , malaise , urticaria , myalgia , arthralgia , abdominal pain ) and various skin rashes .
Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , stomatitis , black or hairy tongue , and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur , especially during oral penicillin therapy .
Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of oxacillin , especially with patients with renal insufficiency .
Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of oxacillin .
Manifestations of this reaction may include rash , fever , eosinophilia , hematuria , proteinuria , and renal insufficiency .
Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of oxacillin .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metabolic Reactions Hepatotoxicity , characterized by fever , nausea , and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests , mainly elevated SGOT levels , has been associated with the use of oxacillin .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of oxacillin overdosage are those described in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section .
If signs or symptoms occur , discontinue use of the medication , treat symptomatically , and institute appropriate supportive measures .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxacillin Injection , USP supplied as a premixed frozen solution is to be administered as a continuous or intermittent intravenous infusion .
The usual dose recommendation is as follows : Adults 250 - 500 mg I . V . every 4 - 6 hours ( mild to moderate infections ) 1 gram I . V . every 4 - 6 hours ( severe infections ) This container system may be inappropriate for the dosage requirements for children , infants and neonates .
Other dosage forms may be more appropriate .
Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to oxacillin should always be performed .
Duration of therapy varies with the type of severity of infection as well as the overall condition of the patient ; therefore , it should be determined by the clinical and bacteriological response of the patient .
In severe staphylococcal infections , therapy with oxacillin should be continued for at least 14 days .
Therapy should be continued for at least 48 hours after the patient has become afebrile , asymptomatic , and cultures are negative .
Treatment of endocarditis and osteomyelitis may require a longer duration of therapy .
Concurrent administration of oxacillin and probenecid increases and prolongs serum penicillin levels .
Probenecid decreases the apparent volume of distribution and slows the rate of excretion by competitively inhibiting renal tubular secretion of penicillin .
Penicillin - probenecid therapy is generally limited to those infections where very high serum levels of penicillin are necessary .
With intravenous administration , particularly in elderly patients , care should be taken because of the possibility of thrombophlebitis .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not add supplementary medication to Oxacillin Injection , USP .
Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F or less .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF GALAXY PLASTIC CONTAINER Thaw at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) .
[ DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION ] .
Visually inspect the container .
If the outlet port protector is damaged , detached , or not present , discard container as sterility may be impaired .
Components of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature with little or no agitation .
Potency is not affected .
Mix after solution has reached room temperature .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or precipitated or if seals are not intact .
The thawed solution is stable for 21 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at room temperature .
Do not refreeze .
Use sterile equipment .
Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete .
Preparation for intravenous administration • 1 .
Suspend container from eyelet support .
• 2 .
Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
• 3 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Oxacillin Injection , USP is supplied as a premixed frozen iso - osmotic solution in 50 mL single dose GALAXY plastic containers as follows : • 2G3538NDC 0338 - 1013 - 411 gram oxacillin • 2G3539NDC 0338 - 1015 - 412 grams oxacillin Store at or below - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F . [ See DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF GALAXY PLASTIC CONTAINER ] Handle frozen product containers with care .
Product containers may be fragile in the frozen state .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in USA 07 - 19 - 00 - 488 Rev . September 2018 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Baxter Logo 1 g Oxacillin Injection , USP GALAXY Single Dose Container 50 mL Iso - osmotic NDC 0338 - 1013 - 41 Code 2G3538 Sterile Nonpyrogenic Each 50 mL contains : Oxacillin Sodium equivalent to 1 g Oxacillin with approx .
1 . 5 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality and 150 mg Sodium Citrate Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH adjusted with hydrochloric acid and may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
pH 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 5 ) .
Dosage : Intravenously as directed by a physician .
See insert .
Cautions : Do not add supplementary medication .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks and solution clarity .
Rx only .
Do not store above - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F . Thaw at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 21 days under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) or 48 hours at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
Do not refreeze .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in USA PL 2040 Plastic 07 - 34 - 63 - 779 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Baxter Logo Oxacillin Injection , USP 12 - 50 mL Single Dose Containers Iso - osmotic Do not store above - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F . Do not refreeze .
1 g Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Thaw at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 21 days under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) or 48 hours at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
Do not refreeze .
Handle frozen product containers with care .
Product containers may be fragile in the frozen state .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
PL 2040 Plastic 07 - 04 - 65 - 182 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0338 - 1013 - 41 Code 2G3538 * FOR BAR CODE POSITION ONLY ( 01 ) 20303381013411 GALAXY Container Sterile Nonpyrogenic Each 50 mL contains : Oxacillin Sodium equivalent to 1 g Oxacillin with approx .
1 . 5 g of Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality and 150 mg Sodium Citrate Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH adjusted with hydrochloric acid and may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
pH 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 5 ) .
Dosage : Intravenously as directed by a physician .
See insert .
Cautions : Do not add supplementary medication .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing thawed bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard bag as sterility may be impaired .
Do not use unless solution is clear .
Rx only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Baxter Logo 2 g Oxacillin Injection , USP GALAXY Single Dose Container 50 mL Iso - osmotic NDC 0338 - 1015 - 41 Code 2G3539 Sterile Nonpyrogenic Each 50 mL contains : Oxacillin Sodium equivalent to 2 g Oxacillin with approx .
300 mg Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality and 300 mg Sodium Citrate Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH adjusted with hydrochloric acid and may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
pH 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 5 ) .
Dosage : Intravenously as directed by a physician .
See insert .
Cautions : Do not add supplementary medication .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks and solution clarity .
Rx only .
Do not store above - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F . Thaw at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 21 days under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) or 48 hours at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
Do not refreeze .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in USA PL 2040 Plastic 07 - 34 - 63 - 780 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Baxter Logo Oxacillin Injection , USP 12 - 50 mL Single Dose Containers Iso - osmotic Do not store above - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F . Do not refreeze .
2 g Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Thaw at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 21 days under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) or 48 hours at room temperature ( 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
Do not refreeze .
Handle frozen product containers with care .
Product containers may be fragile in the frozen state .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
PL 2040 Plastic 07 - 04 - 65 - 183 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0338 - 1015 - 41 Code 2G3539 * FOR BAR CODE POSITION ONLY ( 01 ) 20303381015415 GALAXY Container Sterile Nonpyrogenic Each 50 mL contains : Oxacillin Sodium equivalent to 2 g Oxacillin with approx .
1 . 5 g of Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality and 300 mg Sodium Citrate Hydrous , USP added as a buffer .
pH adjusted with hydrochloric acid and may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
pH 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 8 . 5 ) .
Dosage : Intravenously as directed by a physician .
See insert .
Cautions : Do not add supplementary medication .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing thawed bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard bag as sterility may be impaired .
Do not use unless solution is clear .
Rx only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
