Lidocaine 4 % Menthol 5 % Methyl Salicylate 4 % Topical Analgesic Temporarily relieves mild to moderate aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • muscle soreness • strains • sprains • arthritis • simple backache • muscle stiffness • bruises For external use only Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID , which may cause stomach bleeding .
The chance is small , but higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take other drugs containing an NSAID ( Aspirin , Ibuprofen , Naproxen , or others ) • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • have three or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use • on the face or rashes ; on wounds or damaged skin • in the eyes , mouth , or other mucous membranes • on genitals • with a heating pad • if allergic to any NSAIDS • right before or after heart surgery • any patch from a pouch that has been opened for 7 or more days Ask a doctor before use if • you are allergic to topical products • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you are taking a diuretic • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , or kidney disease • you are pregnant When using this product • wash hands after applying or removing patch • avoid contact with eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • the risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Stop use and consult your physician if • stomach pain or upset gets worse or lasts • rash , irritation , or itching develops • you feel faint , vomit blood , or have bloody or black stools ( these are signs of stomach bleeding ) • condition worsens If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a doctor before use while breast feeding and during the first 6 months of pregnancy .
Do not use during last 3 months of pregnancy because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
If put in mouth , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Package not child resistant .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together .
Adults 18 years and older : • Apply patch to affected area 1 to 2 times daily or as directed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
