WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See Full Prescribing Information for complete boxed warning .
• Women over 35 years old who smoke should not use TAYSOFY .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) 04 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TAYSOFY is indicated for use by females of reproductive age to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The efficacy of TAYSOFY in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of more than 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated .
• TAYSOFY is an estrogen / progestin COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy ( 1 ) • The efficacy of TAYSOFY in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated ( 1 , 8 . 8 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one capsule by mouth at the same time every day ( 2 . 1 ) • Take capsules in the order directed on the blister pack ( 2 . 1 ) • Capsules may be administered without regard to meals ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 How to Take TAYSOFY To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , TAYSOFY must be taken exactly as directed .
Instruct patients to take one capsule by mouth at the same time every day .
Capsules must be taken in the order directed on the blister pack .
Capsules should not be skipped or taken at intervals exceeding 24 hours .
For patient instructions for missed pills , see FDA - approved patient labeling .
TAYSOFY may be administered without regard to meals [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 How to Start TAYSOFY Instruct the patient to begin taking TAYSOFY either on the first day of her menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) or on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period ( Sunday Start ) .
Day 1 Start During the first cycle of TAYSOFY use , instruct the patient to take one pink capsule daily , beginning on Day one ( 1 ) of her menstrual cycle ( the first day of menstruation is Day one ) .
She should take one pink capsule daily for 24 consecutive days , followed by one maroon capsule daily on days 25 through 28 .
TAYSOFY should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day .
Instruct the patient to use a non - hormonal contraceptive as back - up during the first 7 days if she starts taking TAYSOFY on a day other than the first day of her menstrual cycle .
The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered .
Sunday Start During the first cycle of TAYSOFY use , instruct the patient to take one pink capsule daily , beginning on the first Sunday after the onset of her menstrual period .
She should take one pink capsule daily for 24 consecutive days , followed by one maroon capsule daily on days 25 through 28 .
TAYSOFY should be taken in the order directed on the package at the same time each day .
TAYSOFY should not be considered effective as a contraceptive until after the first 7 consecutive days of product administration .
Instruct the patient to use a non - hormonal contraceptive as back - up during the first 7 days .
The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered .
The patient should begin her next and all subsequent 28 - day regimens of TAYSOFY on the same day of the week that she began her first regimen , following the same schedule .
She should begin taking her pink capsules on the next day after ingestion of the last maroon capsule , regardless of whether or not a menstrual period has occurred or is still in progress .
Anytime a subsequent cycle of TAYSOFY is started later than the day following administration of the last maroon capsule , the patient should use another method of contraception until she has taken a pink capsule daily for 7 consecutive days .
For postpartum women who do not breastfeed or after a second trimester abortion , start TAYSOFY no earlier than 4 weeks postpartum due to the increased risk of thromboembolism .
If the patient starts TAYSOFY postpartum and has not yet had a period , evaluate for possible pregnancy , and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken TAYSOFY for 7 consecutive days .
TAYSOFY may be initiated immediately after a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage ; if the patient starts TAYSOFY immediately , additional contraceptive measures are not needed .
2 . 3 Switching from another Hormonal Method of Contraception If the patient is switching from a combination hormonal method such as : • Another pill • Vaginal ring • Patch • Instruct her to take the first pink capsule on the day she would have taken her next COC pill .
She should not continue taking the tablet from her previous birth control pack , and should not skip any days between packs .
If she does not have a withdrawal bleed , rule out pregnancy before starting TAYSOFY .
• If she previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch , she should start using TAYSOFY on the day she would have resumed the previous product .
If the patient is switching from a progestin - only method such as a : • Progestin - only pill • Implant • Intrauterine system • Injection • She may switch any day from a progestin - only pill ; instruct her to take the first pink capsule on the day she would have taken her next progestin - only pill .
She should use a non - hormonal method of contraception for 7 consecutive days .
• If switching from an implant or injection , start the first pink capsule on the day her next injection would have been due or on the day of removal of her implant .
• If switching from an IUD , depending on the timing of removal , back - up contraception may be needed .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If the patient vomits or has diarrhea ( within 3 to 4 hours after she takes a pink capsule ) , she should follow the instructions in the “ What to Do if You Miss Capsules ” section [ see FDA - approved patient labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS TAYSOFY is available in blister packs .
Each blister pack contains 28 soft gelatin capsules in the following order : • 24 oval , opaque , pale pink ( active ) soft gelatin capsules , printed with “ A3 ” and each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate , USP and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol , USP .
• 4 oval , opaque , maroon , ( non - hormonal placebo ) soft gelatin capsules , printed with “ A9 ” and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate , USP .
The ferrous fumarate capsules do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
TAYSOFY consists of 28 soft gelatin capsules in the following order ( 3 ) : • 24 pink capsules ( active ) , each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate , USP and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol , USP • 4 maroon capsules ( non - hormonal placebo ) each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate , USP which does not serve any therapeutic purpose 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TAYSOFY is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warningand Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop TAYSOFY if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding ( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue if jaundice occurs ( 5 . 2 ) • High blood pressure : Do not prescribe TAYSOFY for women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease ( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking TAYSOFY .
Consider an alternative contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia ( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue TAYSOFY if indicated ( 7 ) • Uterine bleeding : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems Stop TAYSOFY if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic event ( VTE ) occurs .
Stop TAYSOFY if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
If feasible , stop TAYSOFY at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE .
Start TAYSOFY no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COC .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) , although , in general , the risk is greatest in older ( > 35 years of age ) , hypertensive women who also smoke .
COCs also increase the risk for stroke in women with underlying risk factors .
Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use TAYSOFY in women with acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue TAYSOFY if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors TAYSOFY is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases per 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue TAYSOFY prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
TAYSOFY can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure TAYSOFY is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop TAYSOFY if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC - related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking TAYSOFY .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance in a dose - related fashion .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking TAYSOFY develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue TAYSOFY if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of TAYSOFY in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different COC .
Based on patient diaries from a clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of a 24 - day regimen of norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets , 24 % to 35 % of women experienced unscheduled bleeding per cycle .
A total of 10 subjects out of 743 ( 1 . 3 % ) discontinued due to bleeding or spotting .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who are not pregnant and use TAYSOFY may experience amenorrhea .
In the clinical trial with a 24 - day regimen of norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets , 22 % to 36 % of the women using norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets experienced amenorrhea in at least one of 6 cycles of use .
Some women may experience post - pill amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active capsules or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 COC Use before or during Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiologic studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue TAYSOFY if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue TAYSOFY if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer TAYSOFY is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally - sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking TAYSOFY .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warningand Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials ( ≥ 2 % ) are headache , vaginal candidiasis , nausea , menstrual cramps , breast tenderness , bacterial vaginitis , abnormal cervical smear , acne , mood swings , and weight gain ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data presented in Section 6 . 1 are from a clinical trial conducted with a 24 - day regimen of norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets .
TAYSOFY capsules are bioequivalent to these norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of all Treated Subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 % of the 743 women using norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets were the following , in order of decreasing incidence : headache ( 6 . 3 % ) , vaginal candidiasis ( 6 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 4 . 6 % ) , menstrual cramps ( 4 . 4 % ) , breast tenderness ( 3 . 4 % ) , bacterial vaginitis ( 3 . 1 % ) , abnormal cervical smear ( 3 . 1 % ) , acne ( 2 . 7 % ) , mood swings ( 2 . 2 % ) , and weight gain ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : Among the 743 women using norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets , 46 women ( 6 . 2 % ) withdrew because of an adverse event .
Adverse events occurring in 3 or more subjects leading to discontinuation of treatment were , in decreasing order : abnormal or irregular bleeding ( 1 . 3 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 8 % ) , menstrual cramps ( 0 . 5 % ) , and increased blood pressure ( 0 . 4 % ) .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 to 1 . 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 1 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 to 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 to 10 years of COC use .
Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of a 24 - day regimen of norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or evaluate a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Vascular disorders : thrombosis / embolism ( coronary artery , pulmonary , cerebral , deep vein ) .
Hepatobiliary disorders : cholelithiasis , cholecystitis , hepatic adenoma , hemangioma of liver .
Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reaction .
Skin and subcutaneous disorders : alopecia , rash ( generalized and allergic ) , pruritus , skin discoloration .
GI disorders : nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : myalgia .
Eye disorders : blurred vision , visual impairment , corneal thinning , change in corneal curvature ( steepening ) .
Infections and infestations : fungal infection , vaginal infection .
Investigations : change in weight or appetite ( increase or decrease ) , fatigue , malaise , peripheral edema , blood pressure increased .
Nervous system disorders : headache , dizziness , migraine , loss of consciousness .
Psychiatric disorders : mood swings , depression , insomnia , anxiety , suicidal ideation , panic attack , changes in libido .
Renal and urinary disorders : cystitis - like syndrome .
Reproductive system and breast disorders : breast changes ( tenderness , pain , enlargement , and secretion ) , premenstrual syndrome , dysmenorrhea .
Cardiovascular : chest pain , palpitations , tachycardia , myocardial infarction .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of the concurrently - used drug to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate and products containing St . John ’ s wort .
Interactions between oral contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV / HCV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds .
COCs have been shown to significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lamotrigine , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer TAYSOFY with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing mothers : Not recommended ; can decrease milk production ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
The administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy .
COCs should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers When possible , advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of TAYSOFY have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same in postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 years as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use TAYSOFY has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of TAYSOFY has not been studied in subjects with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of TAYSOFY has not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 8 Body Mass Index The safety and efficacy of TAYSOFY in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol capsules and ferrous fumarate capsules contain norethindrone acetate USP , a progestin , and ethinyl estradiol USP , an estrogen .
TAYSOFY provides an oral contraceptive regimen consisting of 24 pink active soft gelatin capsules that contain the active ingredients , followed by 4 maroon non - hormonal placebo soft gelatin capsules as specified below : • 24 oval , opaque , pale pink soft gelatin capsules each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate , USP and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol , USP .
• 4 oval , opaque , maroon , soft gelatin capsules each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate , USP Each pink active capsule also contains the following inactive ingredients : sesame oil , linoleoyl polyoxylglycerides , DL - α - tocopherol , dehydrated alcohol , gelatin , sorbitol sorbitan solution , glycerin , FD & C Red # 40 , titanium dioxide and purified water .
Each maroon non - hormonal placebo capsule contains ferrous fumarate USP , soybean oil , yellow beeswax , soy lecithin gelatin , sorbitol sorbitan solution , glycerin , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , titanium dioxide and purified water .
The ferrous fumarate capsules do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
The chemical name of ethinyl estradiol , USP is [ 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - ] .
The empirical formula of ethinyl estradiol , USP is C20H24O2 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of norethindrone acetate , USP is [ 19 - Norpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - , ( 17α ) - ] .
The empirical formula of norethindrone acetate , USP is C22H28O3 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with TAYSOFY .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a single - dose , crossover clinical study conducted in 39 healthy , non - smoking premenopausal women under fasting condition , TAYSOFY capsules were bioequivalent to norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets ( 24 - day regimen tablets ) based on the exposure ( AUC ) and peak concentration ( Cmax ) of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol .
Norethindrone acetate appears to be completely and rapidly deacetylated to norethindrone after oral administration , because the disposition of norethindrone acetate is indistinguishable from that of orally administered norethindrone .
Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol are rapidly absorbed from norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets , with maximum plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol occurring 1 to 4 hours post - dose .
Both are subject to first - pass metabolism after oral dosing , resulting in an absolute bioavailability of approximately 64 % for norethindrone and 43 % for ethinyl estradiol .
The plasma norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol pharmacokinetics following single - and multiple - dose administrations of norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets in 17 healthy female volunteers are provided in Figures 2 and 3 , and Table 1 .
Following multiple - dose administration of norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets , mean maximum concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol were increased by 95 % and 27 % , respectively , as compared to single - dose administration .
Mean norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol exposures ( AUC values ) were increased by 164 % and 51 % respectively , as compared to single - dose administration of norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Steady - state with respect to norethindrone was reached by Day 17 and steady - state with respect to ethinyl estradiol was reached by Day 13 .
Mean SHBG concentrations were increased by 150 % from baseline ( 57 . 5 nmol / L ) to 144 nmol / L at steady - state .
Figure 2 .
Mean Plasma Norethindrone Concentration - Time Profiles Following Single - and Multiple - Dose Oral Administration of Norethindrone Acetate / Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets to Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Condition ( n = 17 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 .
Mean Plasma Ethinyl Estradiol Concentration - Time Profiles Following Single - and Multiple - Dose Oral Administration of Norethindrone Acetate / Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets to Healthy Female Volunteers Under Fasting Condition ( n = 17 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 1 .
Summary of Norethindrone ( NE ) and Ethinyl Estradiol ( EE ) Pharmacokinetics Following Single - and Multiple - Dose Oral Administration of Norethindrone Acetate / Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets to Healthy Female Volunteers Under Fasting Condition ( n = 17 ) Regimen Analyte Arithmetic Meana ( % CV ) by Pharmacokinetic Parameter Cmax ( pg / mL ) tmax ( hr ) AUC ( 0 − 24 ) ( pg / mL • h ) Cmin ( pg / mL ) t ½ ( hr ) Cavg ( pg / mL ) Day 1 ( Single Dose ) NE 8 , 420 ( 31 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 33 , 390 ( 40 ) -- -- -- EE 64 . 5 ( 27 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 465 . 4 ( 26 ) -- -- -- SHBG -- -- -- 57 . 5 ( 37 ) b -- -- Day 24 ( Multiple Dose ) NE 16 , 400 ( 26 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 88 , 160 ( 30 ) 880 ( 51 ) 8 . 4 3 , 670 ( 30 ) EE 81 . 9 ( 24 ) 1 . 7 ( 1 . 0 to 2 . 0 ) 701 . 3 ( 28 ) 11 . 4 ( 43 ) 14 . 5 29 . 2 ( 28 ) SHBG -- -- -- 144 ( 24 ) -- -- Cmax = Maximum plasma concentration tmax = Time of Cmax Cmin = minimum plasma concentration at steady - state AUC ( 0 − 24 ) = Area under plasma concentration versus time curve from 0 to 24 hours t ½ = Apparent first - order terminal elimination half - life Cavg = Average plasma concentration = AUC ( 0 – 24 ) / 24 % CV = Coefficient of Variation ( % ) SHBG = Sex Hormone Binding Globulin ( nmol / L ) aThe harmonic mean ( 0 . 693 / mean apparent elimination rate constant ) is reported for t ½ , and the median ( range ) is reported for tmax .
bThe SHBG concentration reported here is the pre - dose concentration .
Food Effect TAYSOFY may be administered without regard to meals .
A single - dose administration of TAYSOFY capsules with food in 38 healthy , non - smoking premenopausal women decreased the maximum concentration of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol by 38 % and 33 % , respectively .
Food intake did not affect the extent of ethinyl estradiol absorption , but increased the extent of norethindrone absorption by 19 % .
Distribution Volume of distribution of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol ranges from 2 to 4 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of both steroids is extensive ( > 95 % ) ; norethindrone binds to both albumin and SHBG , whereas ethinyl estradiol binds only to albumin .
Although ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , it induces SHBG synthesis .
Metabolism Norethindrone undergoes extensive biotransformation , primarily via reduction , followed by sulfate and glucuronide conjugation .
The majority of metabolites in the circulation are sulfates , with glucuronides accounting for most of the urinary metabolites .
Ethinyl estradiol is also extensively metabolized , both by oxidation and by conjugation with sulfate and glucuronide .
Sulfates are the major circulating conjugates of ethinyl estradiol and glucuronides predominate in urine .
The primary oxidative metabolite is 2 - hydroxy ethinyl estradiol , formed by the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome P450 .
Part of the first - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol is believed to occur in gastrointestinal mucosa .
Ethinyl estradiol may undergo enterohepatic circulation .
Excretion Norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are excreted in both urine and feces , primarily as metabolites .
Plasma clearance values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are similar ( approximately 0 . 4 L / hr / kg ) .
Steady - state elimination half - lives of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following administration of norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets are approximately 8 hours and 14 hours , respectively .
Drug Interactions No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with TAYSOFY .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The data presented in Section 14 are from a clinical trial conducted with a 24 - day regimen of norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets .
TAYSOFY capsules are bioequivalent to these norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets .
In a clinical study , 743 women 18 to 45 years of age were studied to assess the efficacy of norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets , for up to six 28 - day cycles providing a total of 3 , 823 treatment - cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of all enrolled women was : 70 % Caucasian , 16 % African - American , 10 % Hispanic , 2 % Asian and 2 % Other .
Women with body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 35 mg / m2 were excluded from the study .
The weight range for those women treated was 90 to 260 pounds , with a mean weight of 147 pounds .
Among the women in the study , about 40 % had not used hormonal contraception immediately prior to enrolling in this study .
A total of 583 women completed 6 cycles of treatment .
There were a total of 5 on - treatment pregnancies in 3 , 565 treatment cycles during which no backup contraception was used .
The Pearl Index for norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets was 1 . 82 ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 59 to 4 . 25 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied TAYSOFY ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol capsules , 1 mg / 20 mcg and ferrous fumarate capsules , 75 mg ) is available in blister cards ( dispensers ) containing 28 soft gelatin capsules : Each blister card contains 28 capsules in the following order : • 24 oval , opaque , pale pink ( active ) soft gelatin capsules , printed with ‘ A3 ’ and each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate , USP and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol , USP .
• 4 oval , opaque , maroon , ( non - hormonal placebo ) soft gelatin capsules , printed with “ A9 ” and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate , USP .
The ferrous fumarate capsules do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Each blister card is packed in a carton ( NDC 65162 - 558 - 58 ) .
Cartons of 3 blister cards packed individually in 3 cartons are provided for dispensing ( NDC 65162 - 558 - 16 ) .
3 cartons - each carton contains 1 blister card ( 28 ) : NDC 65162 - 558 - 58 Cartons of 5 blister cards packed individually in 5 cartons are provided for dispensing ( NDC 65162 - 558 - 15 ) .
5 cartons - each carton contains 1 blister card ( 28 ) : NDC 65162 - 558 - 58 16 . 2 Storage Conditions Store at 20 ° to 25º C ( 68 ° to 77º F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30º C ( 59 ° to 86º F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Counsel patients on the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC .
• TAYSOFY does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• The Warnings and Precautions associated with COCs .
• TAYSOFY is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of TAYSOFY , instruct the patient to stop further intake .
• Take one capsule daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
See “ What to Do if You Miss Capsules ” section in FDA - approved patient labeling .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with TAYSOFY .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Women who start COCs postpartum , and who have not yet had a period , should use an additional method of contraception until they have taken a pink capsule for 7 consecutive days .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 06 - 2022 - 03 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Guide for Using TAYSOFY ( tay ' soe fi ) ( Norethindrone Acetate and Ethinyl Estradiol Capsules and Ferrous Fumarate Capsules ) WARNING TO WOMEN WHO SMOKE Do not use TAYSOFY if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects ( heart and blood vessel problems ) from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
Birth control pills help to lower the chances of becoming pregnant when taken as directed .
They do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
What is TAYSOFY ?
TAYSOFY is a birth control pill .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol , and a progestin called norethindrone acetate .
How well does TAYSOFY work ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of one clinical study of a 24 - day regimen of norethindrone acetate 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 020 mg tablets lasting six months , about 1 to 4 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use TAYSOFY .
Women with a BMI above 35 kg / m2 were not studied in the clinical trial , so it is not known how well TAYSOFY protects against pregnancy in such women .
If you are overweight , discuss with your healthcare provider whether TAYSOFY is the best choice for you .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How do I take TAYSOFY ?
• Be sure to read these directions before you start taking your capsules or anytime you are not sure what to do .
• The right way to take the capsule is to take one capsule every day at the same time in the order directed on the package .
TAYSOFY can be taken without regard to meals .
If you miss capsules you could get pregnant .
This includes starting the pack late .
The more capsules you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
See " WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS CAPSULES ” below .
• Many women have spotting or light bleeding at unexpected times , or may feel sick to their stomach during the first 1 to 3 packs of capsules .
If you do have spotting or light bleeding or feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the capsules .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does not go away , check with your healthcare provider .
• Missing capsules can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you make up these missed capsules .
On the days you take two capsules , to make up for missed capsules , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• If you have vomiting ( within 3 to 4 hours after you take your capsule ) , you should follow the instructions for " WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS CAPSULES . "
If you have diarrhea or if you take certain medicines , including some antibiotics and some herbal products such as St . John ' s Wort , your capsules may not work as well .
Use a back - up method ( such as condoms and spermicides ) until you check with your healthcare provider .
• If you have trouble remembering to take TAYSOFY , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make capsule - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
• If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
Before You Start Taking Your TAYSOFY • Decide What Time of Day You Want to Take Your Capsule .
It is important to take TAYSOFY in the order directed on the package at the same time every day .
TAYSOFY can be taken without regard to meals .
• Look at Your Capsule Pack – It has 28 Capsules The TAYSOFY - pill pack has 24 " active " pink capsules ( with hormones ) to be taken for 24 days , followed by 4 " reminder " maroon capsules ( without hormones ) to be taken for the next four days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Also look for : a ) Where on the pack to start taking capsules , b ) In what order to take the capsules ( follow the arrows shown in the picture above ) c ) The week numbers as shown in the picture above .
4 .
Be sure you have ready at all times a ) another kind of birth control ( such as a condoms and spermicide ) to use as a back - up in case you miss capsules , and b ) an extra , full pill pack .
When to Start the First Pack of Capsules You have a choice for which day to start taking your first pack of capsules .
Decide with your healthcare provider which is the best day for you .
Pick a time of day which will be easy to remember .
Day 1 Start : • Pick the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period ( this is the day you start bleeding or spotting , even if it is almost midnight when the bleeding begins ) .
• Place this day label strip on the capsule dispenser over the area that has the days of the week ( starting with Sunday ) printed on the plastic .
• Take the first pink pill of the pack during the first 24 hours of your period .
• You will not need to use a back - up method of birth control , since you are starting the capsule at the beginning of your period .
However , if you start TAYSOFY later than the first day of your period , you should use another method of birth control ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up method until you have taken 7 pink capsules .
Sunday Start : • Take the first pink capsule of the pack on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the pack that same day .
• Use another method of birth control ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first pack until the next Sunday ( 7 days ) .
This also applies if you start TAYSOFY after having been pregnant , and you have not had a period since your pregnancy .
When You Switch From a Different Birth Control Tablet When switching from another birth control pill , finish all the tablets , then TAYSOFY should be started on the same day that a new pack of the previous birth control tablet would have been started .
When You Switch From Another Type of Birth Control Method When switching from a transdermal patch or vaginal ring , finish the 21 days of use , wait 7 days , then TAYSOFY should be started when the next application would have been due .
When switching from an injection , TAYSOFY should be started when the next injection would have been due .
When switching from an intrauterine device or an implant , TAYSOFY should be started on the day of removal .
What to Do During the Month • Take one capsule at the same time every day until the pack is empty .
Do not skip capsules even if you are spotting or bleeding between monthly periods or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip capsules even if you do not have sex very often .
When you finish a pack of capsules , start the next pack on the day after your last maroon capsule .
Do not wait any days between packs .
What to Do if You Miss Capsules TAYSOFY may not be as effective if you miss any pink capsules , especially if you miss the first few or the last few pink capsules in a pack .
If you miss 1 pink capsule : • Take the capsule as soon as you remember .
Take the next capsule at your regular time .
This means you may take two capsules in one day .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pink capsules in a row in week 1 OR week 2 of your pack : • Take two capsules on the day you remember and two capsules the next day .
• Then take one capsule a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you restart your capsules .
You must use another birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
If you miss 2 pink capsules in a row in week 3 or week 4 of your pack : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : Throw out the rest of the TAYSOFY pack and start a new pack that same day .
If you are a Sunday Starter : Keep taking one capsule every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of capsules that same day .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you restart your capsules .
You must use another birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period two months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
If you miss 3 or more pink capsules in a row during any week : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : Throw out the rest of the capsule pack and start a new pack that same day .
If you are a Sunday Starter : Keep taking 1 capsule every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of capsules that same day .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex on the days when you missed capsules or during the first 7 days after you restart your capsules .
You must use another birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up the next time you have sex and for the first 7 days after you restart your capsules .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period two months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
If you miss any of the 4 maroon capsules in Week 4 : • Throw away the capsules you missed .
• Keep taking one capsule each day until the pack is empty .
• You do not need a back - up method .
• Start the next pack of TAYSOFY as scheduled .
Finally , if you are still not sure what to do about the capsules you have missed : • Use a back - up method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) anytime you have sex .
• Contact your healthcare provider and continue taking one active pink capsule each day until otherwise directed .
Who should not take TAYSOFY ?
Your healthcare provider will not give you TAYSOFY if you have : • Ever had blood clots in your arms , legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) , lungs ( pulmonary embolism ) , or eyes ( retinal thrombosis ) • Ever had a stroke • Ever had a heart attack • Certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • An inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • High blood pressure that medicine cannot control • Diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • Ever had certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or have any migraine headaches if you are over age 35 • Ever had breast cancer , which may be sensitive to female hormones • Liver disease , including liver tumors • Take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood .
Also , do not take birth control pills if you : • Smoke and are over 35 years old • Are or suspect you are pregnant • Have any unexplained bleeding from the vagina Birth control pills may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy , also called cholestasis of pregnancy .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had any of the above conditions ( your healthcare provider may recommend another method of birth control ) .
What else should I know about taking TAYSOFY ?
Birth control pills do not protect you against any sexually transmitted infection , including HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss a period , you could be pregnant .
However , some women miss periods or have light periods on birth control pills , even when they are not pregnant .
Contact your healthcare provider for advice if you : • Think you are pregnant • Miss one period and have not taken your birth control pills every day • Miss two periods in a row Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
You should stop TAYSOFY at least four weeks before you have surgery and not restart it until at least two weeks after the surgery , due to an increased risk of blood clots .
If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like TAYSOFY , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Use a back - up or alternative birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your healthcare provider may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like a condom and spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone .
If you are scheduled for any laboratory tests , tell your healthcare provider that you are taking birth control pills .
Certain blood tests may be affected by birth control pills .
What are the most serious risks of taking TAYSOFY ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age greater than 35 .
This increased risk is highest when you first start taking birth control pills and when you restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : * Legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) * Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) * Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) * Heart ( heart attack ) * Brain ( stroke ) Women who take birth control pills may get : * High blood pressure * Gallbladder problems * Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : * Persistent leg pain * Sudden shortness of breath * Sudden blindness , partial or complete * Severe pain or pressure in your chest * Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches * Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking * Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs What are the common side effects of birth control pills ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : * Acne * Less sexual desire * Bloating or fluid retention * Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face * High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes * High fat ( cholesterol , triglyceride ) levels in the blood * Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself * Problems tolerating contact lenses * Weight gain This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What should I know about my period when taking TAYSOFY ?
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may occur while you are taking TAYSOFY .
Irregular bleeding may vary from slight staining between menstrual periods to breakthrough bleeding , which is a flow much like a regular period .
Irregular bleeding occurs most often during the first few months of oral contraceptive use , but may also occur after you have been taking the pill for some time .
Such bleeding may be temporary and usually does not indicate any serious problems .
It is important to continue taking your pills on schedule .
If the bleeding occurs in more than one cycle , is unusually heavy , or lasts for more than a few days , call your healthcare provider .
Some women may not have a menstrual period but this should not be cause for alarm as long has you have taken the pills according to direction .
What if I miss my scheduled period when taking TAYSOFY ?
It is not uncommon to miss your period .
However , if you go two or more months in a row without a period , or you miss your period after a month where you did not take all your pills correctly , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
Stop taking TAYSOFY if you are pregnant .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the capsule whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the capsule .
General Advice about TAYSOFY Your healthcare provider prescribed TAYSOFY for you .
Please do not share TAYSOFY with anyone else .
Keep TAYSOFY out of the reach of children .
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
You may also ask your pharmacist for a more detailed label written for healthcare professionals .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 06 - 2022 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
