Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 Octocrylene 10 . 0 Oxybenzone 5 . 0 Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decrease the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120 0 F .
Do not use in the flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition .
No smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• May stain some fabrics .
• Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Directions • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well ventilated area • reapply • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Mineral Oil , PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Octyldodecanol , Retinyl Palmitate , Silica , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Propoxyhydroxypropyl Thiosulfate Silica , Fragrance Principal Display Panel Academy SPORTS + OUTDOORS SUNSCREEN CONTINUOUS SPRAY SPORT BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 50 Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Spray at any angle UVA / UVB Protection 6 FL . OZ .
( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information • protect this product form excessive heat and direct sun
