[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( in each spray ) Budesonide ( glucocorticoid ) 32 mcg Purpose Nasal allergy symptom reliever Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • nasal congestion • runny nose • itchy nose • sneezing Warnings Do not use • in children under 6 years of age • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you • have had recent nose ulcers or nose surgery • have had a nose injury that has not healed • are using a steroid medicine for asthma , allergies or skin rash • have an eye infection • have or had glaucoma or cataracts When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • some symptoms may get better on the first day of treatment .
It may take up to two weeks of daily use to feel the most symptom relief .
• do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have , or come into contact with someone who has , chickenpox , measles or tuberculosis • you have or develop symptoms of an infection such as persistent fever • you have any change in vision • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions Read insert ( inside package ) on how to : • get a new bottle ready ( primed ) before first use • prime bottle again if not used for two days • use the spray • clean the spray nozzle ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER adults and children 12 years of age and older • once daily , spray 2 times into each nostril while sniffing gently • once your allergy symptoms improve , reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day CHILDREN 6 TO UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product .
Talk to your child ’ s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year children 6 to under 12 years of age • an adult should supervise use • once daily , spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently • if allergy symptoms do not improve , increase to 2 sprays in each nostril per day .
Once allergy symptoms improve , reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day children under 6 years of age • do not use • do not use more than directed • if you forget a dose , do not double the next dose • do not spray into eyes or mouth • if allergy symptoms do not improve after two weeks , stop using and talk to a doctor • do not use for the common cold • shake well before each use Other information • do not use if carton is opened , torn or broken or shows any signs of tampering .
• keep package and insert .
They contain important information .
• store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
Inactive ingredients carboxymethyl cellulose sodium , dextrose anhydrous , edetate disodium dihydrate , hydrochloric acid ( for pH adjustment ) , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , potassium sorbate , purified water Questions or comments ?
call toll free 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 Principal Display Panel - Carton CARTON LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 32 mcg per spray CVS Pharmacy NDC 69842 - 001 - 01 Budesonide Nasal Spray Allergy Spray 120 sprays Relief of : • Nasal Congestion • Runny Nose • Itchy Nose • Sneezing [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Bottle BOTTLE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 32 mcg per spray CVS Pharmacy NDC 69842 - 001 - 01 Budesonide Nasal Spray Allergy Spray 120 sprays [ MULTIMEDIA ]
