Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic Uses for the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain , associated with : • canker sores • sore mouth and throat • minor injury of the mouth and gums • minor dental proedures • minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Flammable .
Do not use near fire or flame .
Avoid smoking during use .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product When using this product • avoid spraying in eyes • do not store at temperature above 49 ° C ( 120 ° F ) • do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Directions : • do not exceed recommended dosage • firmly insert extension tube into spray can valve and ensure it fits securely into the actuator opening • position the extension tube 1 - 2 inches from the affected area • spray 1 / 2 second ( press and immediately release actuator ) • repeat once if necessary • anesthesia is accomplished in approximately 20 seconds adults and children 2 years of age and older : Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of the product .
children under 2 years of age : do not use .
Inactive ingredients flavor , hydrocarbon propellant ( isobutane and propane ) , polyethylene glycol , sodium saccharin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 238 - 8542 M - F : 8 : 00 a . m . - 4 : 30 p . m . ET Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
