ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Silica 14 % Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate 0 . 5 % Tocopheryl Acetate 0 . 1 % PURPOSE Anti plaque Prevention of plaque Gum care Uses ■ Keep your teeth white and strong .
■ Keep your mouth clean .
■ Refresh the inside of the mouth .
■ Prevents tooth decay caused by fluoride and removes bad breath .
■ Increases aesthetic effect .
■ Removal of plaque ( anti - prag ) ■ Prevention of gingivitis and periodontitis ■ Prevention of periodontal disease and gum disease ■ Prevention of plaque deposition WARNINGS ■ Do not swallow and rinse mouth thoroughly after use ■ If you experience any problems with your gums or mouth during use , discontinue use and consult your doctor .
■ For children under 6 years of age , use small amounts of toothpaste .
And use it under the supervision of a guardian to avoid sucking or swallowing .
■ Consult a physician or dentist immediately if a child under 6 years old has swallowed large quantities .
■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN ■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
Directions ■ Brushing the teeth with a suitable amount Other Information ■ Airtight container , Store in normal temperature ( 1 ~ 30 ℃ ) Questions ■ 02 - 363 - 1502 ■ www . doctorchois . com INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Sorbitol , Water , Sodium Chloride , Xanthan gum , Hydroxyapatite , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Xylitol , Sodium Cocoyl Glutamate , Chitosan , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Centella asiatica Extract , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Pistacia Lentiscus ( Mastic ) Gum Oil , Chamaecyparis Obtusa Oil , Foeniculum Vulgare Oil , Ascorbic Acid , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Extract , Mentha Viridis ( Spearmint ) Leaf Oil , Propolis Extract , Salvia Officinalis ( Sage ) Leaf Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Commiphora Myrrha , Angelica Gigas Root Extract , Angelica Dahurica Root Extract , Lonicera Japonica ( Honeysuckle ) Flower Extract , Ubiquinone , Silver PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
