Drug Facts Active ingredient Step One ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step Two ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step Three ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 7 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Uses Reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Do not use • If you continue to smoke , chew tobacco , use snuff , use nicotine gum , or use nicotine patch or other nicotine - containing products Ask a doctor before use if you have • Heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• High blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• An allergy to adhesive tape or skin problems because you are more likely to get rashes .
• stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • Using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • Taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
When using this product • If you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances , remove this patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • Skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or your skin swells , or you get a rash • Irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • You get symptoms of nicotine overdose , such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness , and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of used patch by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
Directions • If you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • Before using this product , read the enclosed self - help guide for complete directions and other information • Stop smoking completely when you begin using the patch • If you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use the following schedule : Weeks 1 thru 4 Weeks 5 and 6 Weeks 7 and 8 STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 use one 21 mg patch / day use one 14 mg patch / day use one 7 mg patch / day • If you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 for 6 weeks , then Step 3 for 2 weeks and then stop • Apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean , and hairless • Remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds .
• Wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of used patch by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
• The used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • If you have vivid dreams , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • Do not wear more than one patch at a time • Do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • Do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • Stop using the patch at the end of 8 weeks .
If you still feel the need to use the patch talk to your doctor .
Other information Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acrylate adhesive , polyester , silicone adhesive Questions or comments ?
Call - 1 - 844 - 562 - 7963 TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : 1 .
You must be motivated to quit .
2 .
Use one patch daily according to directions .
3 .
It is important to complete treatment .
4 .
If you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
5 .
Use patch with a behavioral support program such as the one described in the enclosed booklet .
For your family ' s protection , patches are supplied in child - resistant pouches .
Do not use if individual pouch is open or torn .
• Not for sale to persons under 18 years of age .
• Proof of age required .
• Not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified .
Principal Display Panel - Step 1 – 21 mg Pouch Label Nicotine Transdermal System 21 mg STEP ONE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Step 1 – 21 mg Carton Label Rugby ® NDC 0536 - 5896 - 88 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN HABITROL ® * Clear Nicotine Transdermal System 21 mg delivered over 24 hours STOP SMOKING AID 21 mg Includes Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide STEP ONE If you smoke MORE than 10 cigarettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 Patches * Habitrol ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Step 2 – 14 mg Pouch Label Nicotine Transdermal System 14 mg STEP TWO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Step 2 – 14 mg Carton Label Rugby ® NDC 0536 - 5895 - 88 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN HABITROL ® * Clear Nicotine Transdermal System 14 mg delivered over 24 hours STOP SMOKING AID 14 mg Includes Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide STEP ONE If you smoke MORE than 10 cigarettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 Patches * Habitrol ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Step 3 – 7 mg Pouch Label Nicotine Transdermal System 7 mg STEP THREE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Step 3 – 7 mg Carton Label Rugby ® NDC 0536 - 5894 - 88 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN HABITROL ® * Clear Nicotine Transdermal System 7 mg delivered over 24 hours STOP SMOKING AID 7 mg Includes Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide STEP ONE If you smoke MORE than 10 cigarettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 Patches * Habitrol ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
