Active Ingredients : each 5 g patch contains L - Menthol 200 mg Camphor 40 mg Purpose : External analgesic Keep out reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or consult a poison control center right away .
Uses : for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis strains , bruises and sprains .
Warnings : For external use only Do not use : ■ On wounds ■ On infected or damaged skin When using this product : ■ Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
■ Do not bandage tightly .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : ■ Condition worsens ■ Symptom clear up and occur again within a few days .
■ Symptom persist for more than 7 days .
■ Nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ Excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ When using for pain of arthritis : ■ In conditions affecting children under 12 years of age ■ If redness is present ■ If pain persists for more than 10 days Dirctions : • Adult & children 12 years of age and older • Remove the clear film backing and apply to the sore area of skin .
• Use not more than three times daily • Bandage will remain effective after 24 hours and will be even more effective when using after bath .
• Do not apply to extremely hairy skin • Highly adhesive bandage may hurt skin upon removal • For children under 12 years of age , do not use , consult a doctor Other information : • Keep container tightly closed , once opened , fold the opening and keep pressed closed with a clip • Store at room temperature Inactive Ingredients : Sesame Oil Rehmania Rehmannia glutinosa Fragrant Angelica Angelica dahurica Dong quai Angelica sinensis Chinese peony Poeonia lactiflora Notopterygium Notopterygium incisum Bletilla Bletilla striata Lindera Lindera aggregata Chinese licorice Glycyrrhiza uralensis Pubescent angelica Angelica pubescens Scrophularia Scrophularia ningpoensis Chinese rhubarb Reheum palmatum Cassia Cinnamomum aromaticum Myrrha Commiphora myrrha Chinese mint Mentha canadensis U . S . Distributer : EAST COAST FARCEDES TRADING INC . 295 KENT AVE , BROOKLYN N , Y . , 11211 WEST COAST KWOK HONG CHINESE HERBS , INC 3309 BALBOA STREET , SAN FRANCISCO , CA 94121 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
