[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Ranitidine 150 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride USP , 168 mg ) Purpose Acid reducer Use ( s ) • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools . These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is open or torn • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • protect from light • this product is sodium and sugar free Inactive ingredients FD & C red # 40 aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide black , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 Read the directions and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information including tips for managing heartburn .
Tips for managing heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • Do not eat late at night , or just before bedtime • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty , and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , and even some fruits and vegetables .
• Eat slowly and do not eat beig meals • If you are overweight , lose weight • If you smoke , quit smoking • Raise the head of your bed • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach .
Revised : 03 / 20 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label : Dr . Reddy ' s NDC 55111 - 404 - 34 Maximum Strength Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ACID REDUCER PREVENTS & RELIEVES HEARTBURN associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach 24 Tablets ( 24 doses ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Carton Label : Dr . Reddy ' s NDC 55111 - 404 - 34 Compare to the active ingredient in Zantact 150 ® Tablets * Maximum Strength Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ACID REDUCER PREVENTS & RELIEVES heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach 24 Tablets ( 24 doses ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Blister Carton Label : Dr . Reddy ' s NDC 55111 - 404 - 24 Maximum Strength Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ACID REDUCER PREVENTS & RELIEVES HEARTBURN associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach 24 Tablets ( 24 doses ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
