For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx only DESCRIPTION Erythromycin Pledgets , USP contains erythromycin ( ( 3 R * , 4 S * , 5 S * , 6 R * , 7 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 12 R * , 13 S * , 14 R * ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - Dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - O - methyl - α - ⌊ - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) - oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 - hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - β - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione ) , for topical dermatologic use .
Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced from a strain of Saccharopolyspora erythraea ( formerly Streptomyces erythreus ) .
It is a base and readily forms salts with acids .
Chemically , erythromycin is C37H67NO13 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Erythromycin has the molecular weight of 733 . 94 It is a white powder , is freely soluble in alcohols , acetone , chloroform , acetonitrile , ethyl acetate , and moderately soluble in ether , ethylene dichloride and amyl acetate .
Erythromycin pledgets , USP are absorbent pads impregnated with Erythromycin Topical Solution 2 % .
Each pledget contains 1 mL of Erythromycin Topical Solution 2 % and each 1 mL of Erythromycin Topical Solution 2 % contains 20 mg of erythromycin base in a vehicle consisting of alcohol ( 71 . 5 % v / v ) and propylene glycol .
May contain anhydrous citric acid and / or alcohol to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism by which erythromycin reduces lesions of acne vulgaris is not fully known : however , the effect appears to be due in part to the antibacterial activity of the drug .
Microbiology : Erythromycin acts by inhibition of protein synthesis in susceptible organisms by reversibly binding to 50 S ribosomal subunits , thereby inhibiting translocation of aminoacyl transfer - RNA and inhibiting polypeptide synthesis .
Antagonism has been demonstrated in vitro between erythromycin , lincomycin , chloramphenicol , and clindamycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Erythromycin pledgets , USP are indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin pledgets , USP are contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including erythromycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of `` antibiotic - associated colitis ′′ .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General : For topical use only ; not for ophthalmic use .
Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating or abrasive agents . The use of antibiotic agents may be associated with the overgrowth of antibiotic - resistant organisms .
If this occurs , discontinue use and take appropriate measures .
Avoid contact with eyes and all mucous membranes .
Information for Patients : Patients using erythromycin pledgets , USP should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and all mucous membranes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should not use any other topical acne medication unless otherwise directed by their physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of topical erythromycin .
However , long - term ( 2 year ) oral studies in rats with erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin base did not provide evidence of tumorigenicity .
There was no apparent effect on male or female fertility in rats fed erythromycin ( base ) at levels up to 0 . 25 % of diet .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category B .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity or any other adverse effect on reproduction in female rats fed erythromycin base ( up to 0 . 25 % diet ) prior to and during mating , during gestation and through weaning of two successive litters .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Erythromycin has been reported to cross the placental barrier in humans , but fetal plasma Ievels are generally low .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether erythromycin is excreted in human milk after topical application .
However , erythromycin is excreted in human milk following oral and parenteral erythromycin administration .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of this product in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported occasionally : peeling , dryness , itching , erythema , and oiliness .
Irritation of the eyes and tenderness of the skin have also been reported with topical use of erythromycin .
Generalized urticarial reactions , possibly related to the use of erythromycin , which required systemic steroid therapy have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Erythromycin pledgets , USP should be rubbed over the affected area twice a day after the skin is thoroughly washed with warm water and soap and patted dry .
Acne lesions on the face , neck , shoulder , chest , and back may be treated in this manner .
Additional pledgets may be used , if needed .
Each pledget should be used once and discarded .
HOW SUPPLIED Each pledget is filled to contain 1 mL of Erythromycin Topical Solution USP 2 % .
Each mL of Erythromycin Topical Solution USP 2 % contains 20 mg of erythromycin .
Each pledget is supplied in an individual foil packet in boxes of 60 .
NDC 54868 - 0946 - 0 .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
E . FOUGERA & CO . a division of Altana Inc .
MELVILLE , NY 11747 IF221501 R6 / 06 # 46 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Remove this portion before dispensing ERYTHROMYCIN PLEDGETS , USP Patient Information Leaflet • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and all mucous membranes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should not use any other topical acne medication unless otherwise directed by their physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
E . FOUGERA & CO . a division of Altana Inc .
MELVILLE , NEW YORK 11747 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Erythromycin Topical Solution USP 2 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
