Rx only DESCRIPTION Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , is a sterile , aqueous solution buffered to approximately pH 7 . 0 and formulated for ophthalmic use .
EACH mL CONTAINS : ACTIVE : Gentamicin Sulfate ( equivalent to 3 mg gentamicin ) .
INACTIVES : Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Sodium Chloride , Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , Purified Water .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 6 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic obtained from cultures of .
It is a mixture of the sulfate salts of Gentamicin C , C , C and C .
All three components appear to have similar antimicrobial activity .
Micromonospora purpurea121a2a Gentamicin sulfate occurs as a white to buff powder and is soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Gentamicin sulfate is active against many strains of the following microorganisms : in vitro and Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes Escherichia coli ; Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseriagonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis , keratitis , keratoconjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , acute meibomianitis , and dacryocystitis , caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : and Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli ; Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseriagonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of topical antibiotics may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to gentamicin may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
If irritation or hypersensitivity to any component of the drug develops , the patient should discontinue use of this preparation and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Information for Patients : To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to the eye , eyelid or any surface .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There are no published carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility studies on gentamicin .
Aminoglycoside antibiotics have been found to be non - mutagenic .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Gentamicin has been shown to depress body weights , kidney weights and median glomerular counts in newborn rats when administered systemically to pregnant rats in daily doses approximately 500 times the maximum recommended ophthalmic human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Gentamicin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with gentamicin ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are ocular burning and irritation upon drug instillation , non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival epithelial defects and conjunctival hyperemia .
Other adverse reactions which have occurred rarely are allergic reactions , thrombocytopenic purpura and hallucinations .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections dosage may be increased to as much as two drops every hour .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 50436 - 6752 - 1 in a BOTTLE , DROPPER of 15 SOLUTION / DROPSS Store between 2 ° - 25 ° C ( 36 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid exposure to excessive heat .
Storage : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised : January 2013 Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9116002 9116102 ( Folded ) ( Flat ) GENTAMICIN SULFATE SOLUTION / DROPS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
