To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ceftriaxone for injection and other antibacterial drugs , ceftriaxone for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Ceftriaxone sodium is a sterile , semisynthetic , broad - spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic for intravenous or intramuscular administration .
Ceftriaxone sodium is ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - Amino - 4 - thiazolyl ) glyoxylamido ] - 8 - oxo - 3 - [ [ ( 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - as - triazin - 3 - yl ) thio ] methyl ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid , 72 - ( Z ) - ( O - methyloxime ) , disodium salt , sesquaterhydrate .
The chemical formula of ceftriaxone sodium is C18H16N8Na2O7S3 • 3 . 5H2O .
It has a calculated molecular weight of 661 . 59 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ceftriaxone sodium is a white to yellowish - orange crystalline powder which is readily soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol and very slightly soluble in ethanol .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution is approximately 6 . 7 .
The color of ceftriaxone sodium solutions ranges from light yellow to amber , depending on the length of storage , concentration and diluent used .
Ceftriaxone sodium contains approximately 83 mg ( 3 . 6 mEq ) of sodium per gram of ceftriaxone activity .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Average plasma concentrations of ceftriaxone following a single 30 - minute intravenous ( IV ) infusion of a 0 . 5 , 1 or 2 gm dose and intramuscular ( IM ) administration of a single 0 . 5 ( 250 mg / mL or 350 mg / mL concentrations ) or 1 gm dose in healthy subjects are presented in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 Ceftriaxone Plasma Concentrations After Single Dose AdministrationDose / Route Average Plasma Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 0 . 5 hr 1 hr 2 hr 4 hr 6 hr 8 hr 12 hr 16 hr 24 hr 0 . 5 gm IV [ 1 ] 82 59 48 37 29 23 15 10 5 0 . 5 gm IM 250 mg / mL 22 33 38 35 30 26 16 ND [ 2 ] 5 0 . 5 gm IM 350 mg / mL 20 32 38 34 31 24 16 ND null 5 1 gm IV null 151 111 88 67 53 43 28 18 9 1 gm IM 40 68 76 68 56 44 29 ND null ND null 2 gm IV null 257 192 154 117 89 74 46 31 15 [ 1 ] IV doses were infused at a constant rate over 30 minutes .
[ 2 ] Not Determined Ceftriaxone was completely absorbed following IM administration with mean maximum plasma concentrations occurring between 2 and 3 hours post - dose .
Multiple IV or IM doses ranging from 0 . 5 to 2 gm at 12 - to 24 - hour intervals resulted in 15 % to 36 % accumulation of ceftriaxone above single dose values .
Ceftriaxone concentrations in urine are shown in Table 2 .
TABLE 2 Urinary Concentrations of Ceftriaxone After Single Dose AdministrationDose / Route Average Urinary Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 0 - 2 hr 2 - 4 hr 4 - 8 hr 8 - 12 hr 12 - 24 hr 24 - 48 hr 0 . 5 gm IV 526 366 142 87 70 15 0 . 5 gm IM 115 425 308 127 96 28 1 gm IV 995 855 293 147 132 32 1 gm IM 504 628 418 237 ND null ND null 2 gm IV 2692 1976 757 274 198 40 Thirty - three percent to 67 % of a ceftriaxone dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged drug and the remainder was secreted in the bile and ultimately found in the feces as microbiologically inactive compounds .
After a 1 gm IV dose , average concentrations of ceftriaxone , determined from 1 to 3 hours after dosing , were 581 mcg / mL in the gallbladder bile , 788 mcg / mL in the common duct bile , 898 mcg / mL in the cystic duct bile , 78 . 2 mcg / gm in the gallbladder wall and 62 . 1 mcg / mL in the concurrent plasma .
Over a 0 . 15 to 3 gm dose range in healthy adult subjects , the values of elimination half - life ranged from 5 . 8 to 8 . 7 hours ; apparent volume of distribution from 5 . 78 to 13 . 5 L ; plasma clearance from 0 . 58 to 1 . 45 L / hour ; and renal clearance from 0 . 32 to 0 . 73 L / hour .
Ceftriaxone is reversibly bound to human plasma proteins , and the binding decreased from a value of 95 % bound at plasma concentrations of < 25 mcg / mL to a value of 85 % bound at 300 mcg / mL .
Ceftriaxone crosses the blood placenta barrier .
The average values of maximum plasma concentration , elimination half - life , plasma clearance and volume of distribution after a 50 mg / kg IV dose and after a 75 mg / kg IV dose in pediatric patients suffering from bacterial meningitis are shown in Table 3 .
Ceftriaxone penetrated the inflamed meninges of infants and pediatric patients ; CSF concentrations after a 50 mg / kg IV dose and after a 75 mg / kg IV dose are also shown in Table 3 .
TABLE 3 Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ceftriaxone in Pediatric Patients With Meningitis 50 mg / kg IV 75 mg / kg IV Maximum Plasma Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 216 275 Elimination Half - life ( hr ) 4 . 6 4 . 3 Plasma Clearance ( mL / hr / kg ) 49 60 Volume of Distribution ( mL / kg ) 338 373 CSF Concentration - inflamed meninges ( mcg / mL ) 5 . 6 6 . 4 Range ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 3 – 18 . 5 1 . 3 - 44 Time after dose ( hr ) 3 . 7 ( ± 1 . 6 ) 3 . 3 ( ± 1 . 4 ) Compared to that in healthy adult subjects , the pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone were only minimally altered in elderly subjects and in patients with renal impairment or hepatic dysfunction ( Table 4 ) ; therefore , dosage adjustments are not necessary for these patients with ceftriaxone dosages up to 2 gm per day .
Ceftriaxone was not removed to any significant extent from the plasma by hemodialysis ; in six of 26 dialysis patients , the elimination rate of ceftriaxone was markedly reduced .
TABLE 4 Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ceftriaxone in HumansSubject Group Elimination Half - Life ( hr ) Plasma Clearance ( L / hr ) Volume of Distribution ( L ) Healthy Subjects 5 . 8 – 8 . 7 0 . 58 – 1 . 45 5 . 8 – 13 . 5 Elderly Subjects ( mean age , 70 . 5 yr ) 8 . 9 0 . 83 10 . 7 Patients With Renal Impairment Hemodialysis Patients ( 0 - 5 mL / min ) [ 1 ] 14 . 7 0 . 65 13 . 7 Severe ( 5 - 15 mL / min ) 15 . 7 0 . 56 12 . 5 Moderate ( 16 - 30 mL / min ) 11 . 4 0 . 72 11 . 8 Mild ( 31 - 60 mL / min ) 12 . 4 0 . 7 13 . 3 Patients With Liver Disease 8 . 8 1 . 1 13 . 6 [ 1 ] Creatinine clearance .
The elimination of ceftriaxone is not altered when ceftriaxone is co - administered with probenecid .
Pharmacokinetics in the Middle Ear Fluid In one study , total ceftriaxone concentrations ( bound and unbound ) were measured in middle ear fluid obtained during the insertion of tympanostomy tubes in 42 pediatric patients with otitis media .
Sampling times were from 1 to 50 hours after a single intramuscular injection of 50 mg / kg of ceftriaxone .
Mean ( ± SD ) ceftriaxone levels in the middle ear reached a peak of 35 ( ± 12 ) mcg / mL at 24 hours , and remained at 19 ( ± 7 ) mcg / mL at 48 hours .
Based on middle ear fluid ceftriaxone concentrations in the 23 to 25 hour and the 46 to 50 hour sampling time intervals , a half - life of 25 hours was calculated .
Ceftriaxone is highly bound to plasma proteins .
The extent of binding to proteins in the middle ear fluid is unknown .
Interaction with Calcium : Two in vitro studies , one using adult plasma and the other neonatal plasma from umbilical cord blood have been carried out to assess interaction of ceftriaxone and calcium .
Ceftriaxone concentrations up to 1 mM ( in excess of concentrations achieved in vivo following administration of 2 grams ceftriaxone infused over 30 minutes ) were used in combination with calcium concentrations up to 12 mM ( 48 mg / dL ) .
Recovery of ceftriaxone from plasma was reduced with calcium concentrations of 6 mM ( 24 mg / dL ) or higher in adult plasma or 4 mM ( 16 mg / dL ) or higher in neonatal plasma .
This may be reflective of ceftriaxone - calcium precipitation .
Microbiology The bactericidal activity of ceftriaxone results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis .
Ceftriaxone has a high degree of stability in the presence of beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
In an in vitro study antagonistic effects have been observed with the combination of chloramphenicol and ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobic gram - negative microorganisms Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Enterobacter aerogenes Enterobacter cloacae Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant and beta - lactamase producing strains ) Haemophilus parainfluenzae Klebsiella oxytoca Klebsiella pneumoniae Moraxella catarrhalis ( including beta - lactamase producing strains ) Morganella morganii Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( including penicillinase - and nonpenicillinase - producing strains ) Neisseria meningitidis Proteus mirabilis Proteus vulgaris Serratia marcescens Ceftriaxone is also active against many strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
NOTE : Many strains of the above organisms that are resistant to multiple antibiotics , e . g . , penicillins , cephalosporins , and aminoglycosides , are susceptible to ceftriaxone .
Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes Viridans group streptococci NOTE : Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are resistant to cephalosporins , including ceftriaxone .
Most strains of Group D streptococci and enterococci , e . g . , Enterococcus ( Streptococcus ) faecalis , are resistant .
Anaerobic microorganisms Bacteroides fragilis Clostridium species Peptostreptococcus species NOTE : Most strains of Clostridium difficile are resistant .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Ceftriaxone exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) of ≤ 8 mcg / mL or less against most strains of the following microorganisms , however , the safety and effectiveness of ceftriaxone in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic gram - negative microorganisms Citrobacter diversus Citrobacter freundii Providencia species ( including Providencia rettgeri ) Salmonella species ( including Salmonella typhi ) Shigella species Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Streptococcus agalactiae Anaerobic microorganisms Prevotella ( Bacteroides ) bivius Porphyromonas ( Bacteroides ) melaninogenicus Susceptibility Tests Dilution Techniques Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure [ 1 ] .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of ceftriaxone powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria [ 2 ] for aerobic organisms other than Haemophilus spp , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , and Streptococcus spp , including Streptococcus pneumoniae : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 ( S ) Susceptible 16 - 32 ( I ) Intermediate ≥ 64 ( R ) Resistant The following interpretive criteria [ 3 ] should be used when testing Haemophilus species using Haemophilus Test Media ( HTM ) .
MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 2 ( S ) Susceptible The absence of resistant strains precludes defining any categories other than " Susceptible " .
Strains yielding results suggestive of a " Nonsusceptible " category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing .
The following interpretive criteria [ 4 ] should be used when testing Neisseria gonorrhoeae when using GC agar base and 1 % defined growth supplement .
MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 0 . 25 ( S ) Susceptible The absence of resistant strains precludes defining any categories other than " Susceptible " .
Strains yielding results suggestive of a " Nonsusceptible " category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing .
The following interpretive criteria [ 5 ] should be used when testing Streptococcus spp including Streptococcus pneumoniae using cation - adjusted Mueller - Hinton broth with 2 to 5 % lysed horse blood .
MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 0 . 5 ( S ) Susceptible 1 ( I ) Intermediate ≥ 2 ( R ) Resistant A report of " Susceptible " indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the results should be considered equivocal , and if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of the drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of " Resistant " indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standardized ceftriaxone powder should provide the following MIC values : [ 6 ] Microorganism ATCC ® # MIC ( mcg / mL ) Escherichia coli 25922 0 . 03 - 0 . 12 Staphylococcus aureus 29213 1 - 8 [ 1 ] Pseudomonas aeruginosa 27853 8 - 32 Haemophilus influenzae 49247 0 . 06 - 0 . 25 Neisseria gonorrhoeae 49226 0 . 004 - 0 . 015 Streptococcus pneumoniae 49619 0 . 03 - 0 . 12 [ 1 ] A bimodal distribution of MICs results at the extremes of the acceptable range should be suspect and control validity should be verified with data from other control strains .
Diffusion Techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure [ 7 ] requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper discs impregnated with 30 mcg of ceftriaxone to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to ceftriaxone .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disc susceptibility test with a 30 mcg ceftriaxone disc should be interpreted according to the following criteria for aerobic organisms other than Haemophilus spp , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , and Streptoccocus spp : Zone diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 21 ( S ) Susceptible 14 - 20 ( I ) Intermediate ≤ 13 ( R ) Resistant The following interpretive criteria [ 8 ] should be used when testing Haemophilus species when using Haemophilus Test Media ( HTM ) .
Zone diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 26 ( S ) Susceptible The absence of resistant strains precludes defining any categories other than " Susceptible " .
Strains yielding results suggestive of a " Nonsusceptible " category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing .
The following interpretive criteria [ 9 ] should be used when testing Neisseria gonorrhoeae when using GC agar base and 1 % defined growth supplement .
Zone diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 35 ( S ) Susceptible The absence of resistant strains precludes defining any categories other than " Susceptible " .
Strains yielding results suggestive of a " Nonsusceptible " category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing .
The following interpretive criteria [ 10 ] should be used when testing Streptococcus spp other than Streptococcus pneumoniae when using Mueller - Hinton agar supplemented with 5 % sheep blood incubated in 5 % CO2 .
Zone diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 27 ( S ) Susceptible 25 - 26 ( I ) Intermediate ≤ 24 ( R ) Resistant Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disc test with the MIC for ceftriaxone .
Disc diffusion interpretive criteria for ceftriaxone discs against Streptococcus pneumoniae are not available , however , isolates of pneumococci with oxacillin zone diameters of > 20 mm are susceptible ( MIC ≤ 0 . 06 mcg / mL ) to penicillin and can be considered susceptible to ceftriaxone .
Streptococcus pneumoniae isolates should not be reported as penicillin ( ceftriaxone ) resistant or intermediate based solely on an oxacillin zone diameter of ≤ 19 mm .
The ceftriaxone MIC should be determined for those isolates with oxacillin zone diameters ≤ 19 mm .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 mcg ceftriaxone disc should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : [ 11 ] Microorganism ATCC ® # Zone Diameter Ranges ( mm ) Escherichia coli 25922 29 - 35 Staphylococcus aureus 25923 22 - 28 Pseudomonas aeruginosa 27853 17 - 23 Haemophilus influenzae 49247 31 - 39 Neisseria gonorrhoeae 49226 39 - 51 Streptococcus pneumoniae 49619 30 - 35 Anaerobic Techniques For anaerobic bacteria , the susceptibility to ceftriaxone as MICs can be determined by standardized test methods .
[ 12 ] The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 16 ( S ) Susceptible 32 ( I ) Intermediate ≥ 64 ( R ) Resistant As with other susceptibility techniques , the use of laboratory control microorganism is required to control the technical aspects of the laboratory standardized procedures .
Standardized ceftriaxone powder should provide the following MIC values for the indicated standardized anaerobic dilution [ 13 ] testing method : Method Microorganism ATCC ® # MIC ( mcg / mL ) Agar Bacteroides fragilis 25285 32 - 128 Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron 29741 64 - 256 Broth Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron 29741 32 - 128 ATCC ® is a registered trademark of the American Type Culture Collection .
[ 1 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard - Fifth Edition .
NCCLS document M7 - A5 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 2 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 3 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 4 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 5 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 6 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 7 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disc Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Seventh Edition .
NCCLS document M2 - A7 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 8 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disc Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Seventh Edition .
NCCLS document M2 - A7 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 9 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disc Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Seventh Edition .
NCCLS document M2 - A7 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 10 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disc Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Seventh Edition .
NCCLS document M2 - A7 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 11 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disc Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Seventh Edition .
NCCLS document M2 - A7 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
[ 12 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria ; Approved Standard - Fourth Edition .
NCCLS document M11 - A4 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 210 - 1 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 1997 .
[ 13 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria ; Approved Standard - Fourth Edition .
NCCLS document M11 - A4 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 210 - 1 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 1997 .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Before instituting treatment with ceftriaxone , appropriate specimens should be obtained for isolation of the causative organism and for determination of its susceptibility to the drug .
Therapy may be instituted prior to obtaining results of susceptibility testing .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ceftriaxone for injection and other antibacterial drugs , ceftriaxone for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Ceftriaxone sodium is indicated for the treatment of the following infections when caused by susceptible organisms : Lower Respiratory Tract Infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis or Serratia marcescens .
Acute Bacterial Otitis Media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( including beta - lactamase producing strains ) or Moraxella catarrhalis ( including beta - lactamase producing strains ) .
NOTE : In one study lower clinical cure rates were observed with a single dose of ceftriaxone sodium compared to 10 days of oral therapy .
In a second study comparable cure rates were observed between single dose ceftriaxone sodium and the comparator .
The potentially lower clinical cure rate of ceftriaxone should be balanced against the potential advantages of parenteral therapy ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Skin And Skin Structure Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Viridans group streptococci , Escherichia coli , Enterobacter cloacae , Klebsiella oxytoca , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii [ 1 ] , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus , Bacteroides fragilis [ 2 ] or Peptostreptococcus species .
Urinary Tract Infections ( complicated and uncomplicated ) caused by Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris , Morganella morganii or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
Uncomplicated Gonorrhea ( cervical / urethral and rectal ) caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae , including both penicillinase - and nonpenicillinase - producing strains , and pharyngeal gonorrhea caused by nonpenicillinase - producing strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
Ceftriaxone sodium , like other cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when cephalosporins are used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and Chlamydia trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate antichlamydial coverage should be added .
Bacterial Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
Bone And Joint Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella pneumoniae or Enterobacter species .
Intra - Abdominal Infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Bacteroides fragilis , Clostridium species ( Note : most strains of Clostridium difficile are resistant ) or Peptostreptococcus species .
Meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Neisseria meningitidis or Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Ceftriaxone has also been used successfully in a limited number of cases of meningitis and shunt infection caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis [ 3 ] and Escherichia coli [ 4 ] .
Surgical Prophylaxis : The preoperative administration of a single 1 gm dose of ceftriaxone sodium may reduce the incidence of postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal or abdominal hysterectomy or cholecystectomy for chronic calculous cholecystitis in high - risk patients , such as those over 70 years of age , with acute cholecystitis not requiring therapeutic antimicrobials , obstructive jaundice or common duct bile stones ) and in surgical patients for whom infection at the operative site would present serious risk ( e . g . , during coronary artery bypass surgery ) .
Although ceftriaxone has been shown to have been as effective as cefazolin in the prevention of infection following coronary artery bypass surgery , no placebo - controlled trials have been conducted to evaluate any cephalosporin antibiotic in the prevention of infection following coronary artery bypass surgery .
When administered prior to surgical procedures for which it is indicated , a single 1 gm dose of ceftriaxone sodium provides protection from most infections due to susceptible organisms throughout the course of the procedure .
[ 1 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than ten infections .
[ 2 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than ten infections .
[ 3 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than ten infections .
[ 4 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than ten infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ceftriaxone is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin class of antibiotics .
Nonates ( ≤ 28 days ) Hyperbilirubinemic neonates , especially prematures , should not be treated with ceftriaxone .
In vitro studies have shown that ceftriaxone can displace bilirubin from its binding to serum albumin , leading to a possible risk of bilirubin encephalopathy in these patients .
Ceftriaxone is contraindicated in neonates if they require ( or are expected to require ) treatment with calcium - containing IV solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions such as parenteral nutrition because of the risk of precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium - containing fluids .
In some of these cases , the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium - containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line .
At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium - containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines ; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate .
There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFTRIAXONE IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS OR OTHER DRUGS .
THIS PRODUCT SHOULD BE GIVEN CAUTIOUSLY TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS .
ANTIBIOTICS SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED WITH CAUTION TO ANY PATIENT WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED SOME FORM OF ALLERGY , PARTICULARLY TO DRUGS .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF SUBCUTANEOUS EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
As with other cephalosporins , anaphylactic reactions with fatal outcome have been reported , even if a patient is not known to be allergic or previously exposed .
Interaction with Calcium - Containing Products Do not use diluents containing calcium , such as Ringer ’ s solution or Hartmann ’ s solution , to reconstitute ceftriaxone vials or to further dilute a reconstituted vial for IV administration because a precipitate can form .
Precipitation of ceftriaxone calcium can also occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same IV administration line .
Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing IV solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions such as parenteral nutrition via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially of one another if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid .
In vitro studies using adult and neonatal plasma from umbilical cord blood demonstrated that neonates have an increased risk of precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Clostridium difficile Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including ceftriaxone , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Hemolytic Anemia An immune mediated hemolytic anemia has been observed in patients receiving cephalosporin class antibacterials including ceftriaxone .
Severe cases of hemolytic anemia , including fatalities , have been reported during treatment in both adults and children .
If a patient develops anemia while on ceftriaxone , the diagnosis of a cephalosporin associated anemia should be considered and ceftriaxone stopped until the etiology is determined .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing ceftriaxone for injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Although transient elevations of BUN and serum creatinine have been observed , at the recommended dosages , the nephrotoxic potential of ceftriaxone is similar to that of other cephalosporins .
Ceftriaxone is excreted via both biliary and renal excretion ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Therefore , patients with renal failure normally require no adjustment in dosage when usual doses of ceftriaxone are administered .
Dosage adjustments should not be necessary in patients with hepatic dysfunction ; however , in patients with both hepatic dysfunction and significant renal disease , caution should be exercised and the ceftriaxone dosage should not exceed 2 gm daily .
Alterations in prothrombin times have occurred rarely in patients treated with ceftriaxone .
Patients with impaired vitamin K synthesis or low vitamin K stores ( e . g . , chronic hepatic disease and malnutrition ) may require monitoring of prothrombin time during ceftriaxone treatment .
Vitamin K administration ( 10 mg weekly ) may be necessary if the prothrombin time is prolonged before or during therapy .
Prolonged use of ceftriaxone may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Ceftriaxone should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , especially colitis .
There have been reports of sonographic abnormalities in the gallbladder of patients treated with ceftriaxone ; some of these patients also had symptoms of gallbladder disease .
These abnormalities appear on sonography as an echo without acoustical shadowing suggesting sludge or as an echo with acoustical shadowing which may be misinterpreted as gallstones .
The chemical nature of the sonographically detected material has been determined to be predominantly a ceftriaxone - calcium salt .
The condition appears to be transient and reversible upon discontinuation of ceftriaxone and institution of conservative management .
Therefore , ceftriaxone should be discontinued in patients who develop signs and symptoms suggestive of gallbladder disease and / or the sonographic findings described above .
Cases of pancreatitis , possibly secondary to biliary obstruction , have been reported rarely in patients treated with ceftriaxone .
Most patients presented with risk factors for biliary stasis and biliary sludge ( preceding major therapy , severe illness , total parenteral nutrition ) .
A cofactor role of ceftriaxone - related biliary precipitation cannot be ruled out .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including ceftriaxone for injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , common cold ) .
When ceftriaxone for injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by ceftriaxone for injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Considering the maximum duration of treatment and the class of the compound , carcinogenicity studies with ceftriaxone in animals have not been performed .
The maximum duration of animal toxicity studies was 6 months .
Mutagenesis Genetic toxicology tests included the Ames test , a micronucleus test and a test for chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocytes cultured in vitro with ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone showed no potential for mutagenic activity in these studies .
Impairment of Fertility Ceftriaxone produced no impairment of fertility when given intravenously to rats at daily doses up to 586 mg / kg / day , approximately 20 times the recommended clinical dose of 2 gm / day .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproductive studies have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 20 times the usual human dose and have no evidence of embryotoxicity , fetotoxicity or teratogenicity .
In primates , no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was demonstrated at a dose approximately 3 times the human dose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects In rats , in the Segment I ( fertility and general reproduction ) and Segment III ( perinatal and postnatal ) studies with intravenously administered ceftriaxone , no adverse effects were noted on various reproductive parameters during gestation and lactation , including postnatal growth , functional behavior and reproductive ability of the offspring , at doses of 586 mg / kg / day or less .
Nursing Mothers Low concentrations of ceftriaxone are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when ceftriaxone is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ceftriaxone in neonates , infants and pediatric patients have been established for the dosages described in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
In vitro studies have shown that ceftriaxone , like some other cephalosporins , can displace bilirubin from serum albumin .
Ceftriaxone should not be administered to hyperbilirubinemic neonates , especially prematures ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of ceftriaxone , 32 % were 60 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
The pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone were only minimally altered in geriatric patients compared to healthy adult subjects and dosage adjustments are not necessary for geriatric patients with ceftriaxone dosages up to 2 grams per day ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated .
In clinical trials , the following adverse reactions , which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology , were observed : Local Reactions - pain , induration and tenderness was 1 % overall .
Phlebitis was reported in < 1 % after IV administration .
The incidence of warmth , tightness or induration was 17 % ( 3 / 17 ) after IM administration of 350 mg / mL and 5 % ( 1 / 20 ) after IM administration of 250 mg / mL .
Hypersensitivity - rash ( 1 . 7 % ) .
Less frequently reported ( < 1 % ) were pruritus , fever or chills .
Hematologic - eosinophilia ( 6 % ) , thrombocytosis ( 5 . 1 % ) and leukopenia ( 2 . 1 % ) .
Less frequently reported ( < 1 % ) were anemia , hemolytic anemia , neutropenia , lymphopenia , thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time .
Gastrointestinal - diarrhea ( 2 . 7 % ) .
Less frequently reported ( < 1 % ) were nausea or vomiting , and dysgeusia .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic - elevations of SGOT ( 3 . 1 % ) or SGPT ( 3 . 3 % ) .
Less frequently reported ( < 1 % ) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin .
Renal - elevations of the BUN ( 1 . 2 % ) .
Less frequently reported ( < 1 % ) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine .
Central Nervous System - headache or dizziness were reported occasionally ( < 1 % ) .
Genitourinary - moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally ( < 1 % ) .
Miscellaneous - diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally ( < 1 % ) .
Other rarely observed adverse reactions ( < 0 . 1 % ) include abdominal pain , agranulocytosis , allergic pneumonitis , anaphylaxis , basophilia , biliary lithiasis , bronchospasm , colitis , dyspepsia , epistaxis , flatulence , gallbladder sludge , glycosuria , hematuria , jaundice , leukocytosis , lymphocytosis , monocytosis , nephrolithiasis , palpitations , a decrease in the prothrombin time , renal precipitations , seizures , and serum sickness .
Postmarketing Experience : In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials , the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone .
Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation .
A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium - containing fluids .
In some of these cases , the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium - containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line .
At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium - containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines ; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate .
There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates .
Gastrointestinal - stomatitis and glossitis .
Genitourinary - oliguria .
Dermatologic – exanthema , allergic dermatitis , urticaria , edema .
As with many medications , isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome or Lyell ’ s syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis ) have been reported .
Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics : Adverse Reactions : Allergic reactions , drug fever , serum sickness - like reaction , renal dysfunction , toxic nephropathy , reversible hyperactivity , hypertonia , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , and superinfection .
Altered Laboratory Tests : Positive direct Coombs ’ test , false - positive test for urinary glucose , and elevated LDH .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
OVERDOSAGE In the case of over dosage , drug concentration would not be reduced by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment of overdosage should be symptomatic .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Ceftriaxone sodium may be administered intravenously or intramuscularly .
Do not use diluents containing calcium , such as Ringer ’ s solution or Hartmann ’ s solution , to reconstitute ceftriaxone vials or to further dilute a reconstituted vial for IV administration because a precipitate can form .
Precipitation of ceftriaxone calcium can also occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same IV administration line .
Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing IV solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions such as parenteral nutrition via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially of one another if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid ( see WARNINGS ) .
There have been no reports of an interaction between ceftriaxone and oral calcium - containing products or interaction between intramuscular ceftriaxone and calcium - containing products ( IV or oral ) .
Neonates Hyperbilirubinemic neonates , especially prematures , should not be treated with ceftriaxone ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Ceftriaxone is contraindicated in neonates if they require ( or are expected to require ) treatment with calcium - containing IV solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions such as parenteral nutrition because of the risk of precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Pediatric Patients For the treatment of skin and skin structure infections , the recommended total daily dose is 50 to 75 mg / kg given once a day ( or in equally divided doses twice a day ) .
The total daily dose should not exceed 2 grams .
For the treatment of acute bacterial otitis media , a single intramuscular dose of 50 mg / kg ( not to exceed 1 gram ) is recommended ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
For the treatment of serious miscellaneous infections other than meningitis , the recommended total daily dose is 50 to 75 mg / kg , given in divided doses every 12 hours .
The total daily dose should not exceed 2 grams .
In the treatment of meningitis , it is recommended that the initial therapeutic dose be 100 mg / kg ( not to exceed 4 grams ) .
Thereafter , a total daily dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( not to exceed 4 grams daily ) is recommended .
The daily dose may be administered once a day ( or in equally divided doses every 12 hours ) .
The usual duration of therapy is 7 to 14 days .
Adults The usual adult daily dose is 1 to 2 grams given once a day ( or in equally divided doses twice a day ) depending on the type and severity of infection .
The total daily dose should not exceed 4 grams .
If Chlamydia trachomatis is a suspected pathogen , appropriate antichlamydial coverage should be added , because ceftriaxone sodium has no activity against this organism .
For the treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal infections , a single intramuscular dose of 250 mg is recommended .
For preoperative use ( surgical prophylaxis ) , a single dose of 1 gram administered intravenously 1 / 2 to 2 hours before surgery is recommended .
Generally , ceftriaxone therapy should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared .
The usual duration of therapy is 4 to 14 days ; in complicated infections , longer therapy may be required .
When treating infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , therapy should be continued for at least 10 days .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with impairment of renal or hepatic function .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Intramuscular Administration Reconstitute ceftriaxone sodium powder with the appropriate diluent ( see COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY ) .
Inject diluent into vial , shake vial thoroughly to form solution .
Withdraw entire contents of vial into syringe to equal total labeled dose .
After reconstitution , each 1 mL of solution contains approximately 250 mg or 350 mg equivalent of ceftriaxone according to the amount of diluent indicated below .
If required , more dilute solutions could be utilized .
A 350 mg / mL concentration is not recommended for the 250 mg vial since it may not be possible to withdraw the entire contents .
As with all intramuscular preparations , ceftriaxone sodium should be injected well within the body of a relatively large muscle ; aspiration helps to avoid unintentional injection into a blood vessel .
Vial Dosage Size Amount of Diluent to be Added 250 mg / mL 350 mg / mL 250 mg 0 . 9 mL - 500 mg 1 . 8 mL 1 mL 1 gm 3 . 6 mL 2 . 1 mL 2 gm 7 . 2 mL 4 . 2 mL Intravenous Administration Ceftriaxone sodium should be administered intravenously by infusion over a period of 30 minutes .
Concentrations between 10 mg / mL and 40 mg / mL are recommended ; however , lower concentrations may be used if desired .
Reconstitute vials or “ piggyback ” bottles with an appropriate IV diluent ( see COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY ) .
Vial Dosage Size Amount of Diluent to be Added 250 mg 2 . 4 mL 500 mg 4 . 8 mL 1 gm 9 . 6 mL 2 gm 19 . 2 mL After reconstitution , each 1 mL of solution contains approximately 100 mg equivalent of ceftriaxone .
Withdraw entire contents and dilute to the desired concentration with the appropriate IV diluent .
Piggyback Bottle Dosage Size Amount of Diluent to be Added 1 gm 10 mL 2 gm 20 mL After reconstitution , further dilute to 50 mL or 100 mL volumes with the appropriate IV diluent .
COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY Ceftriaxone has been shown to be compatible with Flagyl ® [ 1 ] IV ( metronidazole hydrochloride ) .
The concentration should not exceed 5 to 7 . 5 mg / mL metronidazole hydrochloride with ceftriaxone 10 mg / mL as an admixture .
The admixture is stable for 24 hours at room temperature only in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection or 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) .
No compatibility studies have been conducted with the Flagyl ® IV RTU ® ( metronidazole ) formulation or using other diluents .
Metronidazole at concentrations greater than 8 mg / mL will precipitate .
Do not refrigerate the admixture as precipitation will occur .
Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides , and fluconazole are physically incompatible with ceftriaxone in admixtures .
When any of these drugs are to be administered concomitantly with ceftriaxone by intermittent intravenous infusion , it is recommended that they be given sequentially , with thorough flushing of the intravenous lines ( with one of the compatible fluids ) between the administrations .
Do not use diluents containing calcium , such as Ringer ’ s solution or Hartmann ’ s solution , to reconstitute ceftriaxone vials or to further dilute a reconstituted vial for IV administration .
Particulate formation can result .
Ceftriaxone sodium solutions should not be physically mixed with or piggybacked into solutions containing other antimicrobial drugs or into diluent solutions other than those listed above , due to possible incompatibility ( see WARNINGS ) .
Ceftriaxone sodium sterile powder should be stored at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and protected from light .
After reconstitution , protection from normal light is not necessary .
The color of solutions ranges from light yellow to amber , depending on the length of storage , concentration and diluent used .
Ceftriaxone sodium intramuscular solutions remain stable ( loss of potency less than 10 % ) for the following time periods : Storage Diluent Concentration mg / mL Room Temp .
( 25 ° C ) Refrigerated ( 4 ° C ) Sterile Water for Injection 100 2 days 10 days 250 , 350 24 hours 3 days 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Solution 100 2 days 10 days 250 , 350 24 hours 3 days 5 % Dextrose Solution 100 2 days 10 days 250 , 350 24 hours 3 days Bacteriostatic Water + 0 . 9 % Benzyl Alcohol 100 24 hours 10 days 250 , 350 24 hours 3 days 1 % Lidocaine Solution ( without epinephrine ) 100 24 hours 10 days 250 , 350 24 hours 3 days Ceftriaxone sodium intravenous solutions , at concentrations of 10 , 20 and 40 mg / mL , remain stable ( loss of potency less than 10 % ) for the following time periods stored in glass or PVC containers : Storage Diluent Room Temp .
( 25 ° C ) Refrigerated ( 4 ° C ) Sterile Water 2 days 10 days 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Solution 2 days 10 days 5 % Dextrose Solution 2 days 10 days 10 % Dextrose Solution 2 days 10 days 5 % Dextrose + 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Solution [ 1 ] 2 days Incompatible 5 % Dextrose + 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Solution 2 days Incompatible [ 1 ] Data available for 10 to 40 mg / mL concentrations in this diluent in PVC containers only .
Similarly , ceftriaxone sodium intravenous solutions , at concentrations of 100 mg / mL , remain stable in the IV piggyback glass containers for the above specified time periods .
The following intravenous ceftriaxone sodium solutions are stable at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) for 24 hours , at concentrations between 10 mg / mL and 40 mg / mL : Sodium Lactate ( PVC container ) , 10 % Invert Sugar ( glass container ) , 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate ( glass container ) , Freamine III ( glass container ) , Normosol - M in 5 % Dextrose ( glass and PVC containers ) , Ionosol - B in 5 % Dextrose ( glass container ) , 5 % Mannitol ( glass container ) , 10 % Mannitol ( glass container ) .
After the indicated stability time periods , unused portions of solutions should be discarded .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter before administration .
Ceftriaxone sodium reconstituted with 5 % Dextrose or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride solution at concentrations between 10 mg / mL and 40 mg / mL , and then stored in frozen state ( - 20 ° C ) in PVC or polyolefin containers , remains stable for 26 weeks .
Frozen solutions of ceftriaxone sodium should be thawed at room temperature before use .
After thawing , unused portions should be discarded .
DO NOT REFREEZE .
[ 1 ] Registered trademark of G . D . Searle & Co .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY Concretions consisting of the precipitated calcium salt of ceftriaxone have been found in the gallbladder bile of dogs and baboons treated with ceftriaxone .
These appeared as a gritty sediment in dogs that received 100 mg / kg / day for 4 weeks .
A similar phenomenon has been observed in baboons but only after a protracted dosing period ( 6 months ) at higher dose levels ( 335 mg / kg / day or more ) .
The likelihood of this occurrence in humans is considered to be low , since ceftriaxone has a greater plasma half - life in humans , the calcium salt of ceftriaxone is more soluble in human gallbladder bile and the calcium content of human gallbladder bile is relatively low .
HOW SUPPLIED Ceftriaxone sodium is supplied as a sterile crystalline powder in glass vials and piggyback bottles .
The following packages are available : Vials containing 500 mg equivalent of ceftriaxone .
Box of 10 ( NDC 21695 - 202 - 10 ) .
Vials containing 1 gm equivalent of ceftriaxone .
Box of 1 ( NDC 21695 - 352 - 01 ) .
Vials containing 1 gm equivalent of ceftriaxone .
Box of 10 ( NDC 21695 - 352 - 10 ) .
NOTE : Ceftriaxone sodium sterile powder should be stored at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and protected from light .
CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical Trials in Pediatric Patients With Acute Bacterial Otitis Media In two adequate and well - controlled U . S . clinical trials a single IM dose of ceftriaxone was compared with a 10 day course of oral antibiotic in pediatric patients between the ages of 3 months and 6 years .
The clinical cure rates and statistical outcome appear in the table below : Clinical Efficacy in Evaluable Population Study Day Ceftriaxone Single Dose Comparator - 10 Days of Oral Therapy 95 % Confidence Interval Statistical Outcome Study 1 - U . S . amoxicillin / clavulanate 14 74 % ( 220 / 296 ) 82 % ( 247 / 302 ) ( - 14 . 4 % , - 0 . 5 % ) Ceftriaxone is lower than control at study day 14 and 28 .
28 58 % ( 167 / 288 ) 67 % ( 200 / 297 ) ( - 17 . 5 % , - 1 . 2 % ) Study 2 - U . S . [ 1 ] TMP - SMZ 14 54 % ( 113 / 210 ) 60 % ( 124 / 206 ) ( - 16 . 4 % , 3 . 6 % ) Ceftriaxone is equivalent to control at study day 14 and 28 .
28 35 % ( 73 / 206 ) 45 % ( 93 / 205 ) ( - 19 . 9 % , 0 . 0 % ) [ 1 ] Barnett ED , Teele DW , Klein JO , et al .
Comparison of Ceftriaxone and Trimethoprim - Sulfamethoxazole for Acute Otitis Media .
Pediatrics .
Vol . 99 , No . 1 , January 1997 .
An open - label bacteriologic study of ceftriaxone without a comparator enrolled 108 pediatric patients , 79 of whom had positive baseline cultures for one or more of the common pathogens .
The results of this study are tabulated as follows : Week 2 and 4 Bacteriologic Eradication Rates in the Per Protocol Analysis in the Roche Bacteriologic Study by pathogen : Study Day 13 - 15 Study Day 30 + 2 Organism No .
Analyzed No .
Erad .
( % ) No .
Analyzed No .
Erad .
( % ) Streptococcus pneumoniae 38 32 ( 84 ) 35 25 ( 71 ) Haemophilus influenzae 33 28 ( 85 ) 31 22 ( 71 ) Moraxella catarrhalis 15 12 ( 80 ) 15 9 ( 60 ) REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard - Fifth Edition .
NCCLS document M7 - A5 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 309 - 9 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disc Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Seventh Edition .
NCCLS document M2 - A7 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 393 - 0 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 2000 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria ; Approved Standard - Fourth Edition .
NCCLS document M11 - A4 ( ISBN 1 - 56238 - 210 - 1 ) .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA 19087 - 1898 , 1997 .
• Barnett ED , Teele DW , Klein JO , et al .
Comparison of Ceftriaxone and Trimethoprim - Sulfamethoxazole for Acute Otitis Media .
Pediatrics .
Vol .
99 , No . 1 , January 1997 .
Mfg . by : Hospira Healthcare India Pvt . Ltd .
Irungattukottai - 602 105 , India Mfg . for : Apotex Corp .
Weston , FL 33326 DATE OF REVISION : JUNE 2010 948026018 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
