1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ICG for Injection Set , a tricarbocyanine dye , is indicated for use with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System to provide real - time endoscopic visible and near - infrared fluorescence imaging .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP used in conjunction with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System enables surgeons to perform minimally invasive surgery using standard endoscopic visible light as well as : ICG for Injection Set , a tricarbocyanine dye , is indicated for use with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System to provide real - time endoscopic visible and near - infrared fluorescence imaging .
ICG for Injection Set used in conjunction with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System enables surgeons to perform minimally invasive surgery using standard endoscopic visible light as well as : • • Visual assessment of vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion .
( 1 . 1 ) • • Visual assessment of at least one of the major extra - hepatic bile ducts ( cystic duct , common bile duct and common hepatic duct ) , using near - infrared imaging .
Fluorescence imaging of biliary ducts with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System is intended for use with standard of care white light and , when indicated , intraoperative cholangiography .
The device is not intended for standalone use for biliary duct visualization .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Visual assessment of vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion 1 . 2 Visual assessment of at least one of the major extra - hepatic bile ducts ( cystic duct , common bile duct and common hepatic duct ) , using near - infrared imaging .
Visual assessment of at least one of the major extra - hepatic bile ducts ( cystic duct , common bile duct and common hepatic duct ) , using near - infrared imaging .
Fluorescence imaging of biliary ducts with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System is intended for use with standard of care white light and , when indicated , intraoperative cholangiography .
The device is not intended for standalone use for biliary duct visualization .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Perfusion Assessment ( 2 . 1 ) Under sterile conditions , reconstitute one ( 1 ) 25 mg vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP using one ( 1 ) 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP vial located in the ICG for Injection Set .
Shake the ICG vial gently to dissolve .
After reconstitution , a 25 mg vial of ICG contains 2 . 5 mg of dye per mL of solution , so a 1 . 0 mL injection contains a 2 . 5 mg dose of ICG .
ICG must be used within 6 hours after reconstitution .
A 3 mL ( 7 . 5 mg ) dose , followed by a 10 mL bolus of saline , is recommended .
Multiple doses can be administered as required .
Extra - Hepatic Biliary Anatomy ( 2 . 2 ) Under sterile conditions , reconstitute one ( 1 ) 25 mg vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP using one ( 1 ) 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP vial located in the ICG for Injection Set .
Shake the ICG vial gently to dissolve .
After reconstitution , a 25 mg vial of ICG contains 2 . 5 mg of dye per mL of solution , so a 1 . 0 mL injection contains a 2 . 5 mg dose of ICG .
ICG must be used within 6 hours after reconstitution .
A 0 . 02 mL / kg dose that is scaled to the patient ’ s weight , followed by a 10 mL bolus of saline , is recommended .
This provides 0 . 05 mg / kg of ICG .
2 . 1 Perfusion Assessment Preparation of ICG for Administration Under sterile conditions , reconstitute one ( 1 ) 25 mg vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP using one ( 1 ) 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP vial located in the ICG for Injection Set .
Shake the ICG vial gently to dissolve .
After reconstitution , a 25 mg vial of ICG contains 2 . 5 mg of dye per mL of solution , so a 1 . 0 mL injection contains a 2 . 5 mg dose of ICG .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP must be used within 6 hours after reconstitution .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
Dosage A 3 mL ( 7 . 5 mg ) dose followed by a 10 mL bolus of saline is recommended .
Multiple doses can be administered as required , up to the maximum recommended dose .
Maximum recommended dose The total dose of dye injected should be kept below 2 mg / kg .
Timing of ICG Administration ICG fluorescence is quickly visible within blood vessels , tissue and organs , and it does not last very long ( refer to Table 1 below ) .
Table 1 : ICG fluorescence visibility after intravenous injection Blood Vessels Organs ( Kidney , Liver , Adrenal Gland , Small Bowel ) See within : 5 - 30 seconds 1 - 2 minutes Visibility lasts : 20 - 30 seconds 20 - 120 minutes For fluorescence imaging of PERFUSION in blood vessels , administration of the ICG should be performed at the time fluorescence imaging is requested by the physician .
Multiple imaging sequences may be performed as necessary [ up to the maximum dose ( 2 mg / kg of patient body weight ) ] , so it is recommended to withdraw the desired dosage of ICG solution for each planned imaging sequence into separate syringes ahead of time .
Method of Administration ICG administration is to be performed via a central or peripheral venous line .
Inject the prepared dose of ICG solution into the central or peripheral line as a tight bolus and immediately followed by a bolus of 10 - 12 mL of normal saline for injection .
2 . 2 Extra - Hepatic Biliary Anatomy Preparation of ICG for Administration Under sterile conditions , reconstitute one ( 1 ) 25 mg vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP using one ( 1 ) 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP vial located in the ICG for Injection Set .
Shake the ICG vial gently to dissolve .
After reconstitution , a 25 mg vial of ICG contains 2 . 5 mg of dye per mL of solution , so a 1 . 0 mL injection contains a 2 . 5 mg dose of ICG .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP must be used within 6 hours after reconstitution .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
Dosage A 0 . 02 mL / kg dose that is scaled to the patient ’ s weight is recommended .
This provides 0 . 05 mg / kg of ICG .
Maximum recommended dose The total dose of dye injected should be kept below 2 mg / kg .
Timing of ICG Administration Following intravenous injection , ICG is rapidly bound to plasma protein , of which albumin is the principle carrier ( 95 % ) .
ICG is taken up from the plasma almost exclusively by the hepatic parenchymal cells and is secreted entirely into the bile .
For optimal fluorescence imaging of Extra - Hepatic Biliary Anatomy , ICG should be administered at least 45 minutes prior to the time fluorescence imaging is desired by the physician .
If this preoperative administration is not performed , however , ICG can be administered once the patient is in the OR , as adequate fluorescence imaging is possible in as little as 15 minutes after IV injection .
Method of Administration ICG administration is to be performed via a central or peripheral venous line .
Inject the prepared weight - scaled dose of ICG solution into the central or peripheral line as a tight bolus and immediately followed by a bolus of 10 - 12 mL of normal saline for injection .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Deaths due to anaphylaxis have been reported following Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP administration during cardiac catheterization .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis Deaths from anaphylaxis have been reported following Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP administration during cardiac catheterization .
5 . 2 Drug Instability Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
However , the dye is stable in plasma and whole blood so that samples obtained in discontinuous sampling techniques may be read hours later .
Sterile techniques should be used in handling the dye solution as well as in the performance of the procedures .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
5 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactic or urticarial reactions have been reported in patients with or without history of allergy to iodides .
If such reactions occur , treat with the appropriate agents , e . g . , epinephrine , antihistamines , and corticosteroids .
Most common adverse reactions are anaphylactic or urticarial reactions .
These have been reported in patients with and without a history of allergy to iodides .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Diagnostic Green LLC at 1 - 844 - 424 - 3784 ( 1 - 844 - ICG - DRUG ) or e - mail : drugsafety @ diagnosticgreen . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Preparations containing sodium bisulfite , including some heparin products reduce the absorption peak of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP in blood and , therefore , should not be used as an anticoagulant for the collection of samples for analysis .
Products containing sodium bisulfite reduce the absorption peak of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP in blood .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data available describing the signs , symptoms , or laboratory findings accompanying overdosage .
The LD50 after intravenous administration ranges between 60 and 80 mg / kg in mice , 50 and 70 mg / kg in rats and 50 and 80 mg / kg in rabbits .
11 DESCRIPTION Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
It is packaged with Sterile Water for Injection , USP used to dissolve the indocyanine green .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is to be administered intravenously .
Indocyanine green is a water soluble , tricarbocyanine dye with a peak spectral absorption at 800 nm .
The chemical name for Indocyanine Green is 1 H - Benz [ e ] indolium , 2 - [ 7 - [ 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - 2 H - benz [ e ] indol - 2 - ylidene ] - 1 , 3 , 5 - heptatrienyl ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - , hydroxide , inner salt , sodium salt .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP has a pH of approximately 6 . 5 when reconstituted .
Each vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP contains 25 mg of indocyanine green as a sterile lyophilized powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following intravenous injection , Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is rapidly bound to plasma protein , of which albumin is the principle carrier ( 95 % ) .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP undergoes no significant extrahepatic or enterohepatic circulation ; simultaneous arterial and venous blood estimations have shown negligible renal , peripheral , lung or cerebro - spinal uptake of the dye .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP is taken up from the plasma almost exclusively by the hepatic parenchymal cells and is secreted entirely into the bile .
The peak absorption and emission of Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP lie in a region ( 800 to 850 nm ) where transmission of energy by the pigment epithelium is more efficient than in the region of visible light energy .
Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP also has the property of being nearly 98 % bound to blood protein .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ICG for Injection Set is a kit ( NDC 70599 - 424 - 02 ) containing one Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP kit ( NDC 70100 - 424 - 02 ) and these Instructions For Use with the KARL STORZ ICG Imaging System .
The Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP kit ( NDC 70100 - 424 - 02 ) contains six 25 mg Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP vials and six 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP plastic vials : NDC 70100 - 424 - 01 Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP vial .
25 mg fill in 25 mL vial .
NDC 63323 - 185 - 10 ( or NDC 0409 - 4887 - 17 ) Sterile Water for Injection , USP , 10 mL fill in 10 mL plastic vials .
ICG for Injection Set Distributed by : KARL STORZ Endoscopy - America , Inc .
El Segundo , CA 90245 USA 50441 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KIT CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] Front Panel NDC 70599 - 424 - 02 PN : VTG0001 ICG for Injection Set For Intravenous Administration 25 mg / Vial Kit Rx Only - Sterile STORZ KARL STORZ - ENDOSKOPE Back Panel NDC 70599 - 424 - 02 PN : VTG0001 ICG for Injection Set Contents : Six Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP vials ( 25 mg each ) Six Sterile Water for Injection , USP Vials ( 10 mL each ) Lot Code Area No Print / No Coating STORZ KARL STORZ - ENDOSKOPE For Intravenous Administration 25 mg / Vial Kit Rx Only - Sterile 06 / 2016 Left Panel ICG for Injection Set DIRECTIONS FOR USE ENCLOSED CAUTION : To ensure accurate readings , Indocyanine Green , USP dissolved in Sterile Water for Injection , USP must be used within 6 hours .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
USAGE : See package insert for dosage information .
25 mg / Vial Kit Right Panel ICG for Injection Set Distributed by : KARL STORZ Endoscopy - America , Inc . 2151 E . Grand Ave . El Segundo , CA 90245 Phone : ( 800 ) 421 - 0837 Fax : ( 800 ) 321 - 1304 E - Mail : communications @ karlstorz . com Web : www . karlstorz . com Rx Only 25 mg / Vial Kit [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70100 - 424 - 01 Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP 25 mg / Vial For Intravenous Administration After reconstitution , use within 6 hours .
Rx only Sterile Distributed by Diagnostic Green LLC 50428 Lot .
No .
Exp .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - STERILE WATER VIAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mL Single - dose Sterile Water for Injection , USP FOR DRUG DILUENT USE Rx only NDC 0409 - 4887 - 17 Contains no antimicrobial or other added substance .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Do not give intravenously unless rendered nearly isotonic .
Hospira , Inc .
RL - 4428 Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
