Drug Facts : Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid : 2 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use for the treatment of acne .
Helps prevent blackheads .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire and flame .
When using this product Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , mouth .
If contact occurs flush with water .
You may experience mild redness , a tingling sensation or flaking ( skin exfoliation ) .
These are normal , temporary indications that the formula is working .
If effects persist or cause discomfort , limit use until your skin adjusts , then revert to recommended usage .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
How to use Apply to the problematic area in the evening 1 up to 3 days a week depending on skin sensitivity .
For the whole face peeling : Use once a week .
Take one pad , swipe pad over clean face avoiding eye area .
Wait about an hour .
Apply a suitable moisturizer afterwards .
For scalp : Apply once a week .
Rub the pad on the entire scalp .
Test a small amount against clean skin on forearm 24 hours prior to use .
Other Information Store in a dry , cool place .
Keep jar tightly closed .
Sunburn Alert This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen and limit sun exposure while using this product .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Water \ Aqua \ Eau , Glycerin , Glycolic Acid , PVP , Lactic Acid , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Allantoin , Ammonium Hydroxide .
clarify with ACNE series BEAUTY CARE Brace Beauty , Embrace Purity .
www . celesty . com Made in TURKEY MABA KOZMETIK A . S . ESENTEPE MAH .
YUZBASI KAYA ALDOGAN SOK .
ONUR IS MERKEZI NO : 12 D : 8 ISTANBUL Distributed by CELESTY LLC 3970 NW 167 TH ST . MIAMI GARDENS , FL 33054 - USA info @ celesty . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
