1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LASTACAFT ® is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
LASTACAFT ® is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop in each eye once daily .
If more than 1 topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used , each one should be administered at least 5 minutes apart .
Instill one drop in each eye once daily .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing alcaftadine 0 . 25 % ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) .
Ophthalmic solution containing alcaftadine 0 . 25 % ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS LASTACAFT ® is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any component in the product .
Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Potential for Eye Injury and Contamination : To minimize the risk of eye injury and contamination , do not touch dropper tip to eyelids and surrounding areas , or any other surface .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
( 5 . 1 ) • Contact Lens Wear : LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of LASTACAFT ® .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Eye Injury and Contamination To minimize eye injury and contamination of the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 2 Contact Lens Use Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
LASTACAFT ® should not be instilled while wearing contact lenses .
Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of LASTACAFT ® .
The preservative in LASTACAFT ® , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of LASTACAFT ® .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common ocular adverse reactions , occurring in less than 4 % of eyes treated with LASTACAFT ® , were eye irritation , burning and / or stinging on instillation , eye redness , and eye pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The most frequent ocular adverse reactions , occurring in less than 4 % of eyes treated with LASTACAFT ® , were eye irritation , burning and / or stinging upon instillation , eye redness and eye pruritus .
The most frequent non - ocular adverse reactions , occurring in less than 3 % of subjects with eyes treated with LASTACAFT ® , were nasopharyngitis and headache .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of LASTACAFT ® .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions include eye discharge , eye swelling , erythema of eyelid , eyelid edema , lacrimation increased , vision blurred , hypersensitivity reactions including swelling of the face or allergic dermatitis , and somnolence .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with LASTACAFT ® in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk .
There are limited data with the use of alcaftadine eye drops in pregnant women .
In embryofetal studies in rats and rabbits , oral administration of alcaftadine during the period of organogenesis did not produce maternal or embryofetal toxicity at clinically relevant doses .
Advise pregnant women of a potential risk to the fetus and mother .
LASTACAFT ® should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus and mother .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % , and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % , of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data In rats , oral administration of 5 , 20 or 40 mg / kg / day alcaftadine during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 – 16 ) caused maternal lethality at doses of 40 mg / kg .
The no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) for maternal toxicity was 20 mg / kg / day ( an exposure 230 - times higher than that at the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose [ MRHOD ] , based on AUC ) .
There were no adverse embryofetal effects up to a dose of 20 mg / kg .
In rabbits , oral administration of 10 , 40 or 80 mg / kg / day alcaftadine during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 – 18 ) caused no maternal toxicity or adverse embryofetal effects up to a dose of 80 mg / kg / day ( an exposure 8819 - times higher than that at the MRHOD , based on AUC ) .
Daily oral doses of 20 and 30 mg / kg / day alcaftadine administered to rats from Day 6 of pregnancy until Day 20 postpartum produced lower pup weights in offspring .
No adverse effects in dams or offspring were observed at doses up to 5 mg / kg / day ( a dose 286 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of LASTACAFT ® in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infants , or the effects on milk production to inform risk of LASTACAFT ® to an infant during lactation .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for LASTACAFT ® , and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from LASTACAFT ® .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION LASTACAFT ® ( alcaftadine ophthalmic solution ) is an H1 receptor antagonist , in a sterile ophthalmic solution for topical ophthalmic use .
Alcaftadine is a white to yellow powder with an empirical formula of C19H21N3O and a molecular weight of 307 . 39 .
Contains : Active : alcaftadine 0 . 25 % ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) Inactives : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 005 % as a preservative ; edetate disodium ; sodium phosphate , monobasic ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) Chemical Name : 6 , 11 - dihydro - 11 - ( 1 - methyl - 4 - piperidinylidene ) - 5 H - imidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ] [ 3 ] benzazepine - 3 - carboxaldehyde Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The drug product has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Alcaftadine is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist and inhibitor of the release of histamine from mast cells .
Decreased chemotaxis and inhibition of eosinophil activation has also been demonstrated .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following bilateral topical ocular administration of alcaftadine ophthalmic solution , 0 . 25 % , the mean plasma Cmax of alcaftadine was approximately 60 pg / mL and the median Tmax occurred at 15 minutes .
Plasma concentrations of alcaftadine were below the lower limit of quantification ( 10 pg / mL ) by 3 hours after dosing .
The mean Cmax of the active carboxylic acid metabolite was approximately 3 ng / mL and occurred at 1 hour after dosing .
Plasma concentrations of the carboxylic acid metabolite were below the lower limit of quantification ( 100 pg / mL ) by 12 hours after dosing .
There was no indication of systemic accumulation or changes in plasma exposure of alcaftadine or the active metabolite following daily topical ocular administration .
Distribution The protein binding of alcaftadine and the active metabolite are 39 . 2 % and 62 . 7 % , respectively .
Elimination Metabolism The metabolism of alcaftadine is mediated by non - CYP450 cytosolic enzymes to the active carboxylic acid metabolite .
In vitro studies showed that neither alcaftadine nor the carboxylic acid metabolite substantially inhibited reactions catalyzed by major CYP450 enzymes .
Excretion The elimination half - life of the carboxylic acid metabolite is approximately 2 hours following topical ocular administration .
Based on data following oral administration of alcaftadine , the carboxylic acid metabolite is primarily eliminated unchanged in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis The carcinogenic potential of alcaftadine has not been evaluated in long - term animal studies .
Mutagenesis Alcaftadine was not mutagenic or genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma assay or the mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Alcaftadine was found to have no effect on fertility of male and female rats at oral doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( an exposure 230 - times higher than that at the MRHOD , based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical efficacy was evaluated in conjunctival allergen challenge ( CAC ) studies .
LASTACAFT ® was more effective than its vehicle in preventing ocular itching in patients with allergic conjunctivitis induced by an ocular allergen challenge , both at 3 minutes post - dosing and at 16 hours post - dosing of LASTACAFT ® .
The safety of LASTACAFT ® was evaluated in a randomized clinical study of 909 subjects over a period of 6 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LASTACAFT ® ( alcaftadine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % is supplied in an opaque , white low - density polyethylene bottle with a white polystyrene cap .
3 mL fill in 5 mL bottle NDC 0023 - 4290 - 03 Storage : Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
After opening , LASTACAFT ® can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Potential for Eye Injury and Sterility of Dropper Tip To minimize eye injury and contamination of the dropper tip and solution , advise patients to not touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip , as this may contaminate the contents .
Concomitant Use with other Ophthalmic Products If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
Contact Lens Use Advise patients not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Advise patients remove contact lenses prior to instillation of LASTACAFT ® .
The preservative in LASTACAFT ® , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of LASTACAFT ® .
Distributed by : Allergan , an AbbVie company Madison , NJ 07940 © 2020 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Patented .
See www . allergan . com / patents v1 . 0USPI4290 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0023 - 4290 - 03 LASTACAFT ( alcaftadine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % 3 mL sterile ALLERGAN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
