Active Ingredients Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away Stop use and ask doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care procider Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 ml of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol .
Questions of comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 935 - 2362 Monday through Friday 9 : 00 AM to 4 : 00 PM EST .
Other Information DO NOT USE IF SAFETY SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING Warning : This product contains a chemical ( cocamide DEA ) known to the State of California to cause cancer .
Laundering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detergents .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Mölnlycke Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Hibiclens ® .
Warning : This product can expose you to coconut oil diethanolamine condensate ( cocamide diethanolamine ) , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer .
For more information go to www . P65Warnings . gov Laundering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detergents .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Mölnlycke Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Hibiclens ® .
Package label and principal display panel Quality Choice NDC 63868 - 940 - 08 Compare to the active ingredient in HIBICLENS ® * Antiseptic Skin Cleanser Antiseptic / Antimicrobial Skin Cleanser Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Reduces Bacteria on the Skin Net Contents : 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) BOTTLE FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY DYE FREE 1061QC08LBLF [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
