Drug Facts Active Ingredients ( in each 5 mL tsp ) Dextromethorphan HBr , 28 mg Guaifenesin , 388 mg Phenylephrine HCl , 10 mg Purposes Antitussive Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses • suppresses cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritants • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passages of bothersome mucus , drain bronchial tubes , and make cough more productive • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to the enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other oral nasal decongestant or stimulant .
When using this product , do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous , dizzy , or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Take every 6 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Adults and children 12 years of age and older Take one teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) .
Do not exceed 4 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age Take 1 / 2 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mL ) .
Do not exceed 2 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours Children 2 to under 6 years of age Take 1 / 4 teaspoonful ( 1 . 25 mL ) .
Do not exceed 1 teaspoonful in 24 hours Children under 2 years of age Consult a doctor Other information • Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
• Avoid excessive heat or humidity .
• Tamper Evident Feature : Do not use if inner seal is torn , broken or missing .
Inactive ingredients Citric acid , flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , propylparaben , polyethylene glycol , purified water , sodium citrate , and sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays from 8 AM to 4 PM AST at 1 - 787 - 767 - 2072 .
San Juan , PR 00917 www . kramernovis . com NDC 52083 - 622 - 16 Contains the same active ingredients as Giltuss ® * Sugar , Alcohol , and Dye FREE GRAPE FLAVOR Manufactured in the USA for Kramer Novis * Giltuss ® is a registered trademark of Gil Pharmaceutical Corp .
This product is not manufactured , distributed or marketed by Gil Pharmaceutical Corp .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
