Active ingredient Hydroxyethyl Cellulose Inactive ingredient De - lonized Water Glycerin Propylene Glycol Sodium Benzoate Polysorbate 20 Disodium EDTA Lactic Acid Purpose Utimi Personal Lubricant is a water - based lubricant for penile or vaginal application , intended to moisturize and enhance the ease and comfort of intimate sexual activity as well as supplement for the body ' s natural lubrication .
This product is compatible with natural rubber latex , polyurethane and polyisoprene condoms .
When using Virginal / Anal dryness and / or intimate sexual activity .
This product is not a contraceptive and does not contain a spermicide .
Do not use Do not use when wound or skin infection .
It should be cautiously used if you are kind of allergic constitution or you have inflammation .
Do not use if quality seal on the opening of the container is broken or missing .
Do not use if tamper - evident seal is removed or broken .
Stop use If irritation or discomfort occurs , discontinue the use and consult a physician .
Very slippery on surfaces , clean spills immediately .
Ask doctor If irritation or discomfort occurs , discontinue the use and consult a physician .
Ask doctor / pharmacist Ask doctor / pharmacist when you current use other drugs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children and away from eyes and ears .
Questions Please contact us when you have any questions .
Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage This is a water - based lubricant for penile or vaginal application , intended to moisturize and enhance the ease and comfort of intimate sexual activity as well as supplement for the body ' s natural lubrication .
Apply a small amount to genital areas .
Reapply as needed or desired .
Dosage & administration Apply a small amount to genital areas .
Reapply as needed or desired .
Dosage forms & strengths The lubricant is like oil form .
One capsule ( 0 . 9 g lubricant and 0 . 3 g gelatin coated ) once time .
The active ingredient strength is 0 . 324 g . Warnings If irritation or discomfort occurs , pleas discontinue to use and consult a physician .
Very slippery surfaces , clean the spills immediately .
This product is not a contraceptive or spermicide .
Keep out of children and pets ' reach .
Package label .
Principal display panel As attached .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
