In a vehicle containing Green Tea & Aloe Rx Only DESCRIPTION Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each pad of Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads is coated with a cleanser - based formulation .
Each gram of this cleanser - based formulation contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide and 40 mg of Sulfur .
The cleanser base consists of : aloe , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , disodium oleamido MEA sulfosuccinate , edetate disodium , fragrance , glycerin , glyceryl stearate / PEG - 100 stearate , green tea , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , sodium lauryl sulfoacetate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads are indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads are contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads are not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads .
It is also not known whether Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads are administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wash affected area ( s ) with cleansing pad once or twice daily , or as directed by your physician .
Wet area ( s ) with water .
Wet pad with a little water and work into a full lather .
Cleanse area ( s ) with pad for 10 - 20 seconds , avoiding eyes .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Discard pad .
Do not flush .
HOW SUPPLIED Sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads are available in boxes of 60 cloths ( 3 . 7 g ) , NDC 43538 - 100 - 60 .
Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Medimetriks Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 973 - 882 - 7512 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for : MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
383 Route 46 West Fairfield , NJ 07004 - 2402 USA www . medimetriks . com IP001 - R5 Rev . 10 / 17 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 Pad Carton NDC 43538 - 100 - 60 Rx Only sumaxin ® ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % & sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads In a vehicle containing Green Tea & Aloe 60 Cleansing Pads Net wt .
3 . 7 g Each MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 43538 - 101 - 60 Rx Only sumaxin ® ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads CP KIT CONTENTS : • 1 - Sumaxin ® ( Sodium Sulfacemide 10 % & Sulfur 4 % ) Cleansing Pads Carton - 60 Pads ( Net wt .
3 . 7 g each ) • 1 - Rehyla ® Wash Moisturizing Daily Wash ( 16 fl .
oz . )
MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
