WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system ( RAS ) can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible ( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , alone or with other antihypertensive agents , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular ( CV ) events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Limitations of Use This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension .
Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of olmesartan medoxomil , an angiotensin II receptor blocker , amlodipine , a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker , and hydrochlorothiazide , a thiazide diuretic , indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once daily .
Dosage may be increased in 2 - week intervals , as needed .
The maximum recommended dose of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg .
Dose selection should be individualized based on previous therapy .
• Dose once daily .
Dosage may be increased after 2 weeks to a maximum dose of 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg once daily ( 2 ) .
• Dose selection should be individualized based on previous therapy ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are available in the following strength combinations : 20 / 5 / 12 . 5 40 / 5 / 12 . 5 40 / 5 / 25 40 / 10 / 12 . 5 40 / 10 / 25 Olmesartan medoxomil ( mg ) 20 40 40 40 40 Amlodipine equivalent ( mg ) 5 5 5 10 10 Hydrochlorothiazide ( mg ) 12 . 5 12 . 5 25 12 . 5 25 Tablets : ( olmesartan medoxomil / amlodipine / hydrochlorothiazide ) ( 3 ) 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg 40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg 40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg 40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients with anuria , hypersensitivity to any component , or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• Anuria : Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide - derived drugs ( 4 ) .
• Do not coadminister aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypotension : Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients • Increased angina or myocardial infarction with calcium channel blockers may occur upon dosage initiation or increase ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Observe for signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus ( 5 . 8 ) .
• Acute angle - closure glaucoma ( 5 . 9 ) .
• Sprue - like enteropathy has been reported .
Consider discontinuation of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in cases where no other etiology is found ( 5 . 10 ) .
5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Olmesartan medoxomil .
Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice and thrombocytopenia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients Olmesartan medoxomil .
In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with olmesartan medoxomil .
Initiate treatment with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets under close medical supervision .
If hypotension does occur , place the patient in the supine position and , if necessary , give an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
Amlodipine .
Symptomatic hypotension is possible , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
Because of the gradual onset of action , acute hypotension is unlikely .
5 . 3 Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction Amlodipine .
Patients , particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease , may develop increased frequency , duration , or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction upon starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase .
The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated .
5 . 4 Impaired Renal Function Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Impaired renal function was reported in 2 . 1 % of subjects receiving olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to 0 . 2 % to 1 . 3 % of subjects receiving dual combination therapy of olmesartan medoxomil and amlodipine , olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide or amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident consider withholding or discontinuing olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Changes in renal function occur in some individuals treated with olmesartan medoxomil as a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , patients with severe congestive heart failure ) , treatment with ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
Similar effects may occur in patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to the olmesartan medoxomil component [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) have been reported .
There has been no long - term use of olmesartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , but similar effects would be expected with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets because of the olmesartan medoxomil component .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Thiazides may precipitate azotemia in patients with renal disease .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
5 . 5 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Amlodipine .
Since amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) is 56 hours in patients with severely impaired hepatic function , titrate slowly when administering to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
5 . 6 Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia , hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain olmesartan , a drug that affects the RAS .
Drugs that inhibit the RAS can also cause hyperkalemia .
Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium .
Monitor calcium levels .
5 . 7 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the post - sympathectomy patient .
5 . 8 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydrochlorothiazide .
Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
5 . 9 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
5 . 10 Sprue - like Enteropathy Olmesartan medoxomil .
Severe , chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation .
Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy .
If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan , exclude other etiologies .
Consider discontinuation of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in cases where no other etiology is identified .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) are dizziness , peripheral edema , headache , fatigue , nasopharyngitis , muscle spasms , nausea , upper respiratory tract infection , diarrhea , urinary tract infection , and joint swelling ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets In the controlled trial of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , patients were randomized to olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg , olmesartan medoxomil / amlodipine 40 mg / 10 mg , olmesartan medoxomil / hydrochlorothiazide 40 mg / 25 mg , or amlodipine / hydrochlorothiazide 10 mg / 25 mg .
Subjects who received triple combination therapy were treated between two and four weeks with one of the three dual combination therapies .
Safety data from this study were obtained in 574 patients with hypertension who received olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for 8 weeks .
The frequency of adverse reactions was similar between men and women , patients < 65 years of age and patients ≥ 65 years of age , patients with and without diabetes , and Black and non - Black patients .
Discontinuations because of adverse events occurred in 4 % of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg compared to 1 % of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil / amlodipine 40 mg / 10 mg , 2 % of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil / hydrochlorothiazide 40 mg / 25 mg , and 2 % of patients treated with amlodipine / hydrochlorothiazide 10 mg / 25 mg .
The most common reason for discontinuation with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets was dizziness ( 1 % ) .
Dizziness was one of the most frequently reported adverse reactions with incidence of 1 . 4 % to 3 . 6 % in subjects continuing on dual combination therapy compared to 5 . 8 % to 8 . 9 % in subjects who switched to olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
The other most frequent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of subjects are presented in the table below : Table 1 Adverse Reaction OM 40 mg / AML 10 mg / HCTZ 25 mg ( N = 574 ) n ( % ) OM 40 mg / AML 10 mg ( N = 596 ) n ( % ) OM 40 mg / HCTZ 25 mg ( N = 580 ) n ( % ) AML10 mg / HCTZ 25 mg ( N = 552 ) n ( % ) Edema peripheral 44 ( 7 . 7 ) 42 ( 7 . 0 ) 6 ( 1 . 0 ) 46 ( 8 . 3 ) Headache 37 ( 6 . 4 ) 42 ( 7 . 0 ) 38 ( 6 . 6 ) 33 ( 6 . 0 ) Fatigue 24 ( 4 . 2 ) 34 ( 5 . 7 ) 31 ( 5 . 3 ) 36 ( 6 . 5 ) Nasopharyngitis 20 ( 3 . 5 ) 11 ( 1 . 8 ) 20 ( 3 . 4 ) 16 ( 2 . 9 ) Muscle spasms 18 ( 3 . 1 ) 12 ( 2 . 0 ) 14 ( 2 . 4 ) 13 ( 2 . 4 ) Nausea 17 ( 3 . 0 ) 12 ( 2 . 0 ) 22 ( 3 . 8 ) 12 ( 2 . 2 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 16 ( 2 . 8 ) 26 ( 4 . 4 ) 18 ( 3 . 1 ) 14 ( 2 . 5 ) Diarrhea 15 ( 2 . 6 ) 14 ( 2 . 3 ) 12 ( 2 . 1 ) 9 ( 1 . 6 ) Urinary tract infection 14 ( 2 . 4 ) 8 ( 1 . 3 ) 6 ( 1 . 0 ) 7 ( 1 . 3 ) Joint swelling 12 ( 2 . 1 ) 17 ( 2 . 9 ) 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 16 ( 2 . 9 ) Syncope was reported by 1 % of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablet subjects compared to 0 . 5 % or less for the other treatment groups .
Olmesartan medoxomil Olmesartan medoxomil has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients / subjects , including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials .
This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 treated for at least 1 year .
Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil was well tolerated , with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to that seen with placebo .
Adverse reactions were generally mild , transient , and without relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil .
Amlodipine Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11 , 000 patients in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of the individual components of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience : Body as a Whole : asthenia , angioedema , anaphylactic reactions , peripheral edema Gastrointestinal : vomiting , diarrhea , sprue - like enteropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal : rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System : acute renal failure , increased blood creatinine Skin and Appendages : alopecia , pruritus , urticaria Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high - dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular ( CV ) risk in diabetic patients , but the overall data are not conclusive .
The randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind ROADMAP trial ( Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial , n = 4447 ) examined the use of olmesartan , 40 mg daily , vs . placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , normoalbuminuria , and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease .
The trial met its primary endpoint , delayed onset of microalbuminuria , but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) .
There was a finding of increased CV mortality ( adjudicated sudden cardiac death , fatal myocardial infarction , fatal stroke , revascularization death ) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group ( 15 olmesartan vs . 3 placebo , HR 4 . 9 , 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] , 1 . 4 , 17 ) , but the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan ( HR 0 . 64 , 95 % CI 0 . 35 , 1 . 18 ) .
The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300 , 000 patient - years .
In the sub - group of diabetic patients receiving high - dose olmesartan ( 40 mg / d ) for > 6 months , there appeared to be an increased risk of death ( HR 2 . 0 , 95 % CI 1 . 1 , 3 . 8 ) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers .
In contrast , high - dose olmesartan use in non - diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death ( HR 0 . 46 , 95 % CI 0 . 24 , 0 . 86 ) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers .
No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months .
Overall , these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high - dose olmesartan in diabetic patients .
There are , however , concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk , notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non - diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics .
Amlodipine .
The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain : gynecomastia .
In postmarketing experience , jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis ) , in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization , have been reported in association with use of amlodipine .
Postmarketing reporting has also revealed a possible association between extrapyramidal disorder and amlodipine .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil ( 7 . 1 ) : • Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) : May lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect .
• Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia .
• Colesevelam hydrochloride : Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose .
• Lithium : Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity .
Amlodipine ( 7 . 2 ) : • Limit simvastatin to 20 mg daily when coadministered .
• Increased exposure to cyclosporin and tacrolimus .
• Increased amlodipine exposure when coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors Hydrochlorothiazide ( 7 . 3 ) : • Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required .
• Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides .
• NSAIDs : Can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of diuretics .
7 . 1 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) : Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
Use with Colesevelam Hydrochloride : Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan .
Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect .
Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lithium : Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of olmesartan or thiazide diuretics .
Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium .
7 . 2 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine Simvastatin : Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Immunosuppressants : Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when coadministered .
Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
CYP3A Inhibitors : Coadministration of amlodipine with CYP3A inhibitors ( moderate and strong ) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction .
Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment .
CYP3A Inducers : No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine .
Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A inducers .
7 . 3 Drug Interactions with Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Antidiabetic Drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) : Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins : Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single dose of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH : Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Non - steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs : In some patients the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) .
• Renal Impairment : Avoid use in patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min ( 8 . 7 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
Consider alternative antihypertensive therapy during pregnancy .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Olmesartan medoxomil Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension , and death .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of gestation .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to olmesartan for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
In neonates with a history of in utero exposure to olmesartan , if oliguria or hypotension occur , utilize measures to maintain adequate blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and supporting renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides can cross the placenta , and concentrations reached in the umbilical vein approach those in the maternal plasma .
Hydrochlorothiazide , like other diuretics , can cause placental hypoperfusion .
It accumulates in the amniotic fluid , with reported concentrations up to 19 times that in umbilical vein plasma .
Use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice or thrombocytopenia .
Since they do not prevent or alter the course of preeclampsia , these drugs should not be used to treat hypertension in pregnant women .
The use of HCTZ for other indications ( e . g . , heart disease ) in pregnancy should be avoided .
Data Animal Data No reproductive studies have been conducted with the combination of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide .
However , these studies have been conducted for olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide alone , and olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide together .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
No teratogenic effects were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered to pregnant rats at oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( 240 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) or pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 1 mg / kg / day ( half the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ; higher doses could not be evaluated for effects on fetal development as they were lethal to the does ) .
In rats , significant decreases in pup birth weight and weight gain were observed at doses ≥ 1 . 6 mg / kg / day , and delays in developmental milestones ( delayed separation of ear auricular , eruption of lower incisors , appearance of abdominal hair , descent of testes , and separation of eyelids ) and dose - dependent increases in the incidence of dilation of the renal pelvis were observed at doses ≥ 8 mg / kg / day .
The no observed effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats is 0 . 3 mg / kg / day , about one - tenth the MRHD of 40 mg / day .
Olmesartan medoxomil and Hydrochlorothiazide .
No teratogenic effects were observed when 1 . 6 : 1 combinations of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide were administered to pregnant mice at oral doses up to 1625 mg / kg / day ( 122 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) or pregnant rats up to 1625 mg / kg / day ( 243 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) or pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 3 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In rats , however , fetal body weights at 1625 mg / kg / day ( a toxic , sometimes lethal dose in the dams ) were significantly lower than control .
The no observed effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats is 162 . 5 mg / kg / day , about 24 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the MRHD of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil / 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide / day .
( Calculations based on a 60 kg patient . )
Amlodipine .
No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate at doses of up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( respectively about 10 and 20 times the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine on a mg / m2 basis ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis ( calculations based on a patient weight of 60 kg ) .
However , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) , and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) in rats receiving amlodipine maleate at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine maleate has been shown to prolong both the gestational period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
No teratogenic effects were observed when hydrochlorothiazide was administered to mice and rats via gavage at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively ( about 600 and 400 times the MRHD ) , on gestation days 6 through 15 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is limited information regarding the presence olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide are present in human milk .
Olmesartan is present in rat milk [ see Data ] .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , advise a nursing woman that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Data Presence of olmesartan in milk was observed after a single oral administration of 5 mg / kg [ 14 C ] olmesartan medoxomil to lactating rats .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
In a controlled clinical trial , 123 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets were ≥ 65 years of age and 18 patients were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in the efficacy or safety of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets were observed in these patient populations ; however , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
The recommended initial dose of amlodipine in patients ≥ 75 years of age is 2 . 5 mg , a dose not available with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment There are no studies of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with hepatic insufficiency , but both amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil show moderate increases in exposure in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
The recommended initial dose of amlodipine in patients with severe hepatic impairment is 2 . 5 mg , a dose not available with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Amlodipine .
Amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t ½ ) is 56 hours in patients with severely impaired hepatic function .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Increases in AUC0 - ∞ and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) for olmesartan were observed with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those in matched controls with an increase in AUC of about 60 % .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
In patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment There are no studies of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment .
Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Patients with renal insufficiency have elevated serum concentrations of olmesartan compared with patients with normal renal function .
After repeated dosing , AUC was approximately tripled in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 20 mL / min ) .
No initial dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with moderate to marked renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min ) .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in patients undergoing hemodialysis has not been studied .
Amlodipine .
The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Thiazide should be used with caution in patients with severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
8 . 8 Black Patients Of the total number of patients who received olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in a randomized trial , 29 % ( 184 / 627 ) were black .
Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets were effective in lowering both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in black patients ( usually a low - renin population ) to the same extent as in non - black patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no information on overdosage with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in humans .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could be encountered if parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation occurs .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be initiated .
The dialyzability of olmesartan is unknown .
Amlodipine .
Single oral doses of amlodipine maleate equivalent to 40 mg amlodipine / kg and 100 mg amlodipine / kg in mice and rats , respectively , caused deaths .
Single oral amlodipine maleate doses equivalent to 4 or more mg amlodipine / kg or higher in dogs ( 11 or more times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused a marked peripheral vasodilation and hypotension .
Overdosage might be expected to cause excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked hypotension and possibly a reflex tachycardia .
In humans , experience with intentional overdosage of amlodipine is limited .
If massive overdose should occur , active cardiac and respiratory monitoring should be instituted .
Frequent blood pressure measurements are essential .
Should hypotension occur , cardiovascular support including elevation of the extremities and the judicious administration of fluids should be initiated .
If hypotension remains unresponsive to these conservative measures , administration of vasopressors ( such as phenylephrine ) should be considered with attention to circulating volume and urine output .
Intravenous calcium gluconate may help to reverse the effects of calcium entry blockade .
As amlodipine is highly protein bound , hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
The most common signs and symptoms of overdose observed in humans are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats , more than 1000 - fold the highest recommended human dose .
11 DESCRIPTION Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for oral administration are a fixed combination of olmesartan medoxomil ( ARB ) , amlodipine ( CCB ) , and hydrochlorothiazide ( thiazide diuretic ) .
Olmesartan medoxomil , USP , a prodrug , is hydrolyzed to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
The olmesartan medoxomil , USP component of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is chemically described as 4 - ( 1 - hydroxy - 1 - methylethyl ) - 2 - propyl - 1 - [ 2 ' - ( 1 H - tetrazole - 5 - yl ) biphenyl - 4 - ylmethyl ] imidazole - 5 - carboxylic acid 5 - methyl - 2 - oxo - 1 , 3 - dioxol - 4 - ylmethyl ester .
The amlodipine besylate , USP component of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is chemically described as 2 - [ ( 2 - Amino - ethoxy ) methyl ] - ] - 4 - ( 2 - chloro - phenyl ) - 6 - methyl - 1 , 4 - dihydro - pyridine - 3 , 5 - dicarboxilic acid – 3 - ethyl ester 5 - methyl ester , compound with benzonesulfonic acid .
The hydrochlorothiazide , USP component of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is chemically described as 6 - Chloro - 3 , 4 dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
The structural formula for olmesartan medoxomil , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C29H30N6O6 M . W . 558 . 59 The structural formula for amlodipine besylate , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H25ClN2O5 • C6H6O3S M . W . 567 . 1 The structural formula for hydrochlorothiazide , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C7H8ClN3O4S2 M . W . 297 . 74 Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain olmesartan medoxomil , USP , a white to off - white crystalline powder , amlodipine besylate , USP , a white or almost white powder , and hydrochlorothiazide , USP , a white or practically white , practically odorless crystalline powder .
Olmesartan medoxomil , USP is practically insoluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol .
Amlodipine besylate , USP is sparingly soluble in ethanol , slightly soluble in water and 2 - propanol and freely soluble in methanol .
Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is slightly soluble in water , freely soluble in hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine and in dimethylformamide ( DMF ) , sparingly soluble in methanol and insoluble in ether , in chloroform and in dilute mineral acids .
Each olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol ( part hydrolyzed ) , povidone , silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate , talc , and titanium dioxide .
In addition : 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg strengths contain FD & C red # 40 aluminum lake and iron oxide black , 40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg strengths contain FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake , 40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg strengths contain D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg strengths contain iron oxide yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The active ingredients of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets target three separate mechanisms involved in blood pressure regulation .
Specifically , amlodipine blocks the contractile effects of calcium on cardiac and vascular smooth muscle cells ; olmesartan medoxomil blocks the vasoconstriction and sodium retaining effects of angiotensin II on cardiac , vascular smooth muscle , adrenal and renal cells ; and hydrochlorothiazide directly promotes the excretion of sodium and chloride in the kidney leading to reductions in intravascular volume .
For a more detailed description of the mechanisms of action for each individual component , see below .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by ACE , kininase II .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Olmesartan blocks the vasoconstrictor effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in vascular smooth muscle .
Its action is , therefore , independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
An AT2 receptor is found also in many tissues , but this receptor is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Olmesartan has more than a 12 , 500 - fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is a mechanism of many drugs used to treat hypertension .
Angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because olmesartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and circulating angiotensin II levels do not overcome the effect of olmesartan on blood pressure .
Amlodipine .
Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggests that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nonhydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is not fully understood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets have been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure .
The three components of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets lower the blood pressure through complementary mechanisms , each working at a separate site and blocking different effects or pathways .
The pharmacodynamics of each individual component is described below .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Olmesartan medoxomil doses of 2 . 5 to 40 mg inhibit the pressor effects of angiotensin I infusion .
The duration of the inhibitory effect was related to dose , with doses of olmesartan medoxomil > 40 mg giving > 90 % inhibition at 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations of angiotensin I and angiotensin II and plasma renin activity ( PRA ) increase after single and repeated administration of olmesartan medoxomil to healthy subjects and hypertensive patients .
Repeated administration of up to 80 mg olmesartan medoxomil had minimal influence on aldosterone levels and no effect on serum potassium .
Amlodipine .
Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
With chronic once daily oral administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 to 114 mmHg ) had about a 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 to 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive patients experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressures ( + 1 / - 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and man , even when coadministered with beta - blockers to man .
Similar findings , however , have been observed in normal or well - compensated patients with heart failure with agents possessing significant negative inotropic effects .
Amlodipine does not change sinoatrial nodal function or atrioventricular conduction in intact animals or man .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine was administered in combination with beta - blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours , and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Drug Interactions Alcohol , Barbiturates , or Narcotics : Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , non - depolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) : Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
After oral administration of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in normal healthy adults , peak plasma concentrations of olmesartan , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide are reached in about 1 . 5 to 3 hours , 6 to 8 hours , and 1 . 5 to 2 hours , respectively .
The rate and extent of absorption of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide from olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are the same as when administered as individual dosage forms .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Olmesartan medoxomil is rapidly and completely bioactivated by ester hydrolysis to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
The absolute bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil is approximately 26 % .
After oral administration , the Cmax of olmesartan is reached after 1 to 2 hours .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil .
Amlodipine .
After oral administration of therapeutic doses of amlodipine , absorption produces peak plasma concentrations between 6 and 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability is estimated between 64 % and 90 % .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours , the plasma half - life has been observed to vary between 5 . 6 and 14 . 8 hours .
Distribution Olmesartan medoxomil .
The volume of distribution of olmesartan is approximately 17 L . Olmesartan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( 99 % ) and does not penetrate red blood cells .
The protein binding is constant at plasma olmesartan concentrations well above the range achieved with recommended doses .
In rats , olmesartan crossed the blood - brain barrier poorly , if at all .
Olmesartan passed across the placental barrier in rats and was distributed to the fetus .
Olmesartan was distributed to milk at low levels in rats .
Amlodipine .
Ex vivo studies have shown that approximately 93 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
Steady - state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Metabolism and Excretion Olmesartan medoxomil .
Following the rapid and complete conversion of olmesartan medoxomil to olmesartan during absorption , there is virtually no further metabolism of olmesartan .
Total plasma clearance of olmesartan is 1 . 3 L / h , with a renal clearance of 0 . 6 L / h .
Approximately 35 % to 50 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in urine while the remainder is eliminated in feces via the bile .
Olmesartan appears to be eliminated in a biphasic manner with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 13 hours .
Olmesartan shows linear pharmacokinetics following single oral doses of up to 320 mg and multiple oral doses of up to 80 mg .
Steady - state levels of olmesartan are achieved within 3 to 5 days and no accumulation in plasma occurs with once - daily dosing .
Amlodipine .
Amlodipine is extensively ( about 90 % ) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic metabolism .
Elimination from the plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of about 30 to 50 hours .
Ten percent of the parent compound and 60 % of the metabolites are excreted in the urine .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Olmesartan medoxomil .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan medoxomil were studied in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) .
Overall , maximum plasma concentrations of olmesartan were similar in young adults and the elderly .
Modest accumulation of olmesartan was observed in the elderly with repeated dosing ; AUCѕѕ , τ was 33 % higher in elderly patients , corresponding to an approximate 30 % reduction in CLR .
Amlodipine .
Elderly patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 % to 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required .
Male and Female Patients Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that gender had no effect on the clearance of olmesartan and amlodipine .
Female patients had approximately 20 % smaller clearances of hydrochlorothiazide than male patients .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Minor differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of olmesartan medoxomil in women compared to men .
Area under the curve and Cmax were 10 % to 15 % higher in women than in men .
Patients with Renal Impairment Olmesartan medoxomil .
In patients with renal insufficiency , serum concentrations of olmesartan were elevated compared to subjects with normal renal function .
After repeated dosing , the AUC was approximately tripled in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 20 mL / min ) .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan medoxomil in patients undergoing hemodialysis has not been studied .
Amlodipine .
The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Olmesartan medoxomil .
Increases in AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax were observed in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those in matched controls , with an increase in AUC of about 60 % .
Amlodipine .
Patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 % to 60 % .
Heart Failure Amlodipine .
Patients with heart failure have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 % to 60 % .
Drug Interaction Studies Simvastatin : Coadministration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77 % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
CYP3A inhibitors : Coadministration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60 % increase in amlodipine systemic exposure .
Erythromycin coadministration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure .
However , strong inhibitors of CYP3A ( e . g . , itraconazole , clarithromycin ) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Cyclosporine : In a prospective study in renal transplant patients , an average 40 % increase in trough cyclosporine levels was observed in the presence of amlodipine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Colesevelam : Concomitant administration of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 3750 mg colesevelam hydrochloride in healthy subjects resulted in 28 % reduction in Cmax and 39 % reduction in AUC of olmesartan .
Lesser effects , 4 % and 15 % reduction in Cmax and AUC respectively , were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Cimetidine : Coadministration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Grapefruit juice : Coadministration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Maalox ® ( antacid ) : Coadministration of the antacid Maalox ® with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Sildenafil : A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine .
When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect .
Atorvastatin : Coadministration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
Digoxin : Coadministration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers .
No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was coadministered with digoxin in healthy volunteers .
Ethanol ( alcohol ) : Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol .
Warfarin : Coadministration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time .
No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was coadministered with warfarin in healthy volunteers .
Antacids : The bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil was not significantly altered by the coadministration of antacids [ Al ( OH ) 3 / Mg ( OH ) 2 ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY The rationale for no or limited new toxicity from the triple combination of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide has already been established on the basis of the safety profile of the individual compounds or the dual combinations .
To clarify the toxicological profile for olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , a 3 - month repeated dose toxicity study was conducted in rats , and the results demonstrated that the combined administration of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide neither augment any existing toxicities of the individual agents nor induce any new toxicities and there were no toxicologically synergistic effects observed in the study .
13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity or fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide .
However , these studies have been conducted for olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide alone .
Olmesartan medoxomil .
Olmesartan was not carcinogenic when administered by dietary administration to rats for up to 2 years .
The highest dose tested ( 2000 mg / kg / day ) was , on a mg / m2 basis , about 480 times the MRHD of 40 mg / day .
Two carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice , a 6 - month gavage study in the p53 knockout mouse and a 6 - month dietary administration study in the Hras2 transgenic mouse , at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( on a mg / m2 basis , about 120 times the MRHD of 40 mg / day ) , revealed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of olmesartan .
Both olmesartan medoxomil and olmesartan tested negative in the in vitro Syrian hamster embryo cell transformation assay and showed no evidence of genetic toxicity in the Ames ( bacterial mutagenicity ) test .
However , both were shown to induce chromosomal aberrations in cultured cells in vitro ( Chinese hamster lung ) and tested positive for thymidine kinase mutations in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Olmesartan medoxomil tested negative in vivo for mutations in the MutaMouse intestine and kidney and for clastogenicity in mouse bone marrow ( micronucleus test ) at oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg ( olmesartan not tested ) .
Fertility of rats was unaffected by administration of olmesartan at dose levels as high as 1000 mg / kg / day ( 240 times the MRHD of 40 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) in a study in which dosing was begun 2 ( female ) or 9 ( male ) weeks prior to mating .
( Calculations based on a 60 kg patient . )
Amlodipine .
Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to 2 years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of amlodipine 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 mg / kg / day showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , similar to the MRHD of amlodipine 10 mg / day .
For the rat , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , about two times the MRHD ( calculations based on a 60 kg patient ) .
Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses of amlodipine up to 10 mg / kg / day ( about 10 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide .
Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
These doses in mice and rats are about 117 and 39 times , respectively , the MRHD of 25 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations based on a 60 kg patient . )
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 , or in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations .
It was also not genotoxic in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese Hamster bone marrow chromosomes , or in Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) assay , the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assay and the Aspergillus nidulans nondisjunction assay .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
These doses in mice and rats are about 19 and 1 . 5 times , respectively , the MRHD of 25 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
( Calculations based on a 60 kg patient . )
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets The antihypertensive efficacy of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets was studied in a double - blind , active - controlled study in hypertensive patients .
A total of 2492 patients with hypertension ( mean baseline blood pressure 169 / 101 mmHg ) received olmesartan medoxomil / amlodipine / hydrochlorothiazide 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg ( 627 patients ) , olmesartan medoxomil / amlodipine 40 mg / 10 mg ( 628 patients ) , olmesartan medoxomil / hydrochlorothiazide 40 mg / 25 mg ( 637 patients ) , or amlodipine / hydrochlorothiazide 10 mg / 25 mg ( 600 patients ) .
Each subject was randomized to one of the three dual therapy combinations for two to four weeks .
Patients were then randomized to continue on the dual therapy they were receiving or to receive triple therapy .
A total of 53 % of patients were male , 19 % were 65 years or older , 67 % were white , 30 % were black , and 15 % were diabetic .
After 8 weeks of treatment , the triple combination therapy produced greater reductions in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures ( p < 0 . 0001 ) compared to each of the 3 dual combination therapies .
The full blood pressure lowering effects were attained within 2 weeks after a change in dose .
The seated blood pressure reductions attributable to the addition of a single high - dose drug to each high - dose dual drug combination are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Additional Blood Pressure Reductions on High - Dose Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Compared to High Doses of Dual Combination Drugs Start on Adding BP reduction * Olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg / amlodipine 10 mg HCTZ 25 mg 8 . 4 / 4 . 5 mmHg Olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg / HCTZ 25 mg Amlodipine 10 mg 7 . 6 / 5 . 4 mmHg Amlodipine 10 mg / HCTZ 25 mg Olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg 8 . 1 / 5 . 4 mmHg * all highly statistically significant .
There were no apparent differences in terms of seated diastolic blood pressure ( SeDBP ) or seated systolic blood pressure ( SeSBP ) reductions in black and non - black patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
There were no apparent differences in terms of SeDBP or SeSBP reductions in diabetic and non - diabetic patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
A total of 440 patients participated in the ambulatory blood pressure monitoring portion of the study .
Over the 24 hour period , there was a greater reduction in diastolic and systolic ambulatory blood pressure for olmesartan medoxomil / amlodipine / hydrochlorothiazide 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg compared to each of the dual combination therapies ( see Figure 1 and Figure 2 ) .
Figure 1 : Mean Ambulatory Diastolic Blood Pressure at Endpoint by Treatment and Hour [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Mean Ambulatory Systolic Blood Pressure at Endpoint by Treatment and Hour [ MULTIMEDIA ] The blood pressure lowering effects of lower dose strengths of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg have not been studied .
All of the dose strengths of the triple combination are expected to provide superior blood pressure lowering effects compared to their respective mono and dual combination components .
The order of the blood pressure lowering effects among the different dose strengths of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is expected to be 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg < 40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg < ( 40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg ≈ 40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg ) < 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg .
There are no trials of olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , hydrochlorothiazide tablets demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but at least one pharmacologically similar drug has demonstrated such benefits .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are available as : 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg - light pink to pink , film - coated , round biconvex tablet , debossed with " TEVA " on one side and " 5005 " on the other side of the tablet and contains 20 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , 6 . 93 mg amlodipine besylate equivalent to 5 mg of amlodipine base , and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
They are available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 0093 - 5005 - 56 ) .
40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg - yellow to dark yellow , film - coated , round biconvex tablet , debossed with " TEVA " on one side and " 5006 " on the other side of the tablet and contains 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , 6 . 93 mg amlodipine besylate equivalent to 5 mg of amlodipine base , and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
They are available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 0093 - 5006 - 56 ) .
40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg - yellow to dark yellow , film - coated , modified capsule shaped tablet , debossed with " TEVA " on one side and " 5004 " on the other side of the tablet and contains 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , 6 . 93 mg amlodipine besylate equivalent to 5 mg of amlodipine base , and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
They are available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 0093 - 5004 - 56 ) .
40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg - pink , film - coated , round biconvex tablet , debossed with " TEVA " on one side and " 5003 " on the other side of the tablet and contains 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , 13 . 86 mg amlodipine besylate equivalent to 10 mg of amlodipine base , and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
They are available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 0093 - 5003 - 56 ) .
40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg - pink , film - coated , modified capsule shaped tablet , debossed with " TEVA " on one side and " 5002 " on the other side of the tablet and contains 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , 13 . 86 mg amlodipine besylate equivalent to 10 mg of amlodipine base , and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
They are available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 0093 - 5002 - 56 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Pregnancy : Tell female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Tell patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation : Advise nursing women not to breastfeed during treatment with olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Advise patients that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
Tell patients that if syncope occurs , olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
Tell patients that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Potassium Supplements : Advise patients not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their healthcare provider .
Acute myopia and secondary angle - closure glaucoma : Advise patients to discontinue olmesartan medoxomil , amlodipine , and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and seek immediate medical attention if they experience symptoms of acute myopia or secondary angle - closure glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured In Croatia By : Pliva Hrvatska d . o . o . Zagreb , Croatia Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . E 1 / 2021 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 5005 - 56 Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx only 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 5006 - 56 Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 40 mg / 5 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx only 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 5004 - 56 Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 40 mg / 5 mg / 25 mg Rx only 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 5003 - 56 Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 40 mg / 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg Rx only 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 5002 - 56 Olmesartan Medoxomil , Amlodipine , and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 40 mg / 10 mg / 25 mg Rx only 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
