USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus . When pregnancy is detected , BENICAR HCT ® should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
DESCRIPTION BENICAR HCT ® ( olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide ) is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist ( AT1 subtype ) , olmesartan medoxomil , and a thiazide diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) .
Olmesartan medoxomil , a prodrug , is hydrolyzed to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
Olmesartan medoxomil is 2 , 3 - dihydroxy - 2 - butenyl 4 - ( 1 - hydroxy - 1 - methylethyl ) - 2 - propyl - 1 - [ p - ( o - 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - ylphenyl ) benzyl ] imidazole - 5 - carboxylate , cyclic 2 , 3 - carbonate .
Its empirical formula is C29H30N6O6 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Olmesartan medoxomil is a white to light yellowish - white powder or crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 558 . 6 .
It is practically insoluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzo - thiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 7 .
Hydrochlorothiazide is slightly soluble in water but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
BENICAR HCT ® is available for oral administration in tablets containing 20 mg or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil combined with 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil combined with 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Inactive ingredients include : hydroxypropylcellulose , hypromellose , lactose , low - substituted hydroxypropylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , red iron oxide , talc , titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of ActionOlmesartan medoxomilAngiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Olmesartan blocks the vasoconstrictor effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in vascular smooth muscle .
Its action is , therefore , independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
An AT2 receptor is found also in many tissues , but this receptor is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Olmesartan has more than a 12 , 500 - fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is a mechanism of many drugs used to treat hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because olmesartan medoxomil does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and circulating angiotensin II levels do not overcome the effect of olmesartan on blood pressure .
HydrochlorothiazideHydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so co - administration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is not fully understood .
PharmacokineticsGeneralOlmesartan medoxomilOlmesartan medoxomil is rapidly and completely bioactivated by ester hydrolysis to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
Olmesartan appears to be eliminated in a biphasic manner with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 13 hours .
Olmesartan shows linear pharmacokinetics following single oral doses of up to 320 mg and multiple oral doses of up to 80 mg .
Steady - state levels of olmesartan are achieved within 3 to 5 days and no accumulation in plasma occurs with once - daily dosing .
The absolute bioavailability of olmesartan is approximately 26 % .
After oral administration , the peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of olmesartan is reached after 1 to 2 hours .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of olmesartan .
HydrochlorothiazideWhen plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours , the plasma half - life has been observed to vary between 5 . 6 and 14 . 8 hours .
Metabolism and ExcretionOlmesartan medoxomilFollowing the rapid and complete conversion of olmesartan medoxomil to olmesartan during absorption , there is virtually no further metabolism of olmesartan .
Total plasma clearance of olmesartan is 1 . 3 L / h , with a renal clearance of 0 . 6 L / h .
Approximately 35 % to 50 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in urine while the remainder is eliminated in feces via the bile .
HydrochlorothiazideHydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours .
DistributionOlmesartanThe volume of distribution of olmesartan is approximately 17 L . Olmesartan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( 99 % ) and does not penetrate red blood cells .
The protein binding is constant at plasma olmesartan concentrations well above the range achieved with recommended doses .
In rats , olmesartan crossed the blood - brain barrier poorly , if at all .
Olmesartan passed across the placental barrier in rats and was distributed to the fetus .
Olmesartan was distributed to milk at low levels in rats .
HydrochlorothiazideHydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Special PopulationsPediatric : The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan have not been investigated in patients < 18 years of age .
Geriatric : The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan were studied in the elderly ( > 65 years ) .
Overall , maximum plasma concentrations of olmesartan were similar in young adults and the elderly .
Modest accumulation of olmesartan was observed in the elderly with repeated dosing ; AUCss , τ was 33 % higher in elderly patients , corresponding to an approximate 30 % reduction in CLR .
Gender : Minor differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in women compared to men .
AUC and Cmax were 10 - 15 % higher in women than in men .
Renal Insufficiency : In patients with renal insufficiency , serum concentrations of olmesartan were elevated compared to subjects with normal renal function .
After repeated dosing , the AUC was approximately tripled in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 20 mL / min ) .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in patients undergoing hemodialysis has not been studied .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Increases in AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax for olmesartan were observed in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those in matched controls , with an increase in AUC of about 60 % .
Drug InteractionsSee PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions .
PharmacodynamicsOlmesartan medoxomilOlmesartan medoxomil doses of 2 . 5 to 40 mg inhibit the pressor effects of angiotensin I infusion .
The duration of the inhibitory effect was related to dose , with doses of olmesartan medoxomil > 40 mg giving > 90 % inhibition at 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations of angiotensin I and angiotensin II and plasma renin activity ( PRA ) increase after single and repeated administration of olmesartan medoxomil to healthy subjects and hypertensive patients .
Repeated administration of up to 80 mg olmesartan medoxomil had minimal influence on aldosterone levels and no effect on serum potassium .
HydrochlorothiazideAfter oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Clinical TrialsOlmesartan medoxomilThe antihypertensive effects of olmesartan medoxomil have been demonstrated in seven placebo - controlled studies at doses ranging from 2 . 5 to 80 mg for 6 to 12 weeks , each showing statistically significant reductions in peak and trough blood pressure .
A total of 2693 patients ( 2145 olmesartan medoxomil ; 548 placebo ) with essential hypertension were studied .
Olmesartan medoxomil once daily ( QD ) lowered diastolic and systolic blood pressure .
The response was dose - related .
An olmesartan medoxomil dose of 20 mg daily produces a trough sitting BP reduction over placebo of about 10 / 6 mm Hg and a dose of 40 mg daily produces a trough sitting BP reduction over placebo of about 12 / 7 mm Hg .
Olmesartan medoxomil doses greater than 40 mg had little additional effect .
The onset of the antihypertensive effect occurred within 1 week and was largely manifest after 2 weeks .
The blood pressure lowering effect was maintained throughout the 24 - hour period with olmesartan medoxomil once daily , with trough - to - peak ratios for systolic and diastolic response between 60 and 80 % .
The blood pressure lowering effect of olmesartan medoxomil , with and without hydrochlorothiazide , was maintained in patients treated for up to 1 year .
There was no evidence of tachyphylaxis during long - term treatment with olmesartan medoxomil or rebound effect following abrupt withdrawal of olmesartan medoxomil after 1 year of treatment .
The antihypertensive effect of olmesartan medoxomil was similar in men and women and in patients older and younger than 65 years .
The effect was smaller in black patients ( usually a low - renin population ) , as has been seen with other ACE inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers and beta - blockers .
Olmesartan medoxomil had an additional blood pressure lowering effect when added to hydrochlorothiazide .
Olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazideIn clinical trials 1230 patients were exposed to the combination of olmesartan medoxomil ( 2 . 5 mg to 40 mg ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg to 25 mg ) .
These trials included one placebo - controlled factorial trial ( n = 502 ) in mild - moderate hypertensives with combinations of olmesartan medoxomil ( 10 mg , 20 mg , 40 mg or placebo ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg , 25 mg or placebo ) .
The antihypertensive effect of the combination on trough blood pressure was related to the dose of each component ( see table below ) .
Placebo - Adjusted Changes in Sitting Systolic / Diastolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) Olmesartan Medoxomil dose HCTZ dose 0 mg 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg 0 mg -- 7 / 5 12 / 5 13 / 7 12 . 5 mg 5 / 1 17 / 8 17 / 8 16 / 10 25 mg 14 / 5 19 / 11 22 / 11 24 / 14 Once - daily dosing with 20 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide , 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide or 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide produced mean placebo - adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough ( 24 hours post - dosing ) ranging from 17 / 8 to 24 / 14 mm Hg .
The onset of the antihypertensive effect occurred within 1 week and was near maximal at 4 weeks .
The antihypertensive effect was independent of gender , but there were too few subjects to identify response differences based on race or age greater than or less than 65 years .
No appreciable changes in trough heart rate were observed with combination therapy in the placebo - controlled trial .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE BENICAR HCT ® is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS BENICAR HCT ® is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
WARNINGS Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and MortalityDrugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature of patients who were taking angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors .
When pregnancy is detected , BENICAR HCT ® should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resulting from decreased fetal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug .
These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine drug exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist only during the first trimester should be so informed .
Nonetheless , when patients become pregnant , physicians should have the patient discontinue the use of BENICAR HCT ® as soon as possible .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to a drug acting on the renin - angiotensin system will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , BENICAR HCT ® should be discontinued unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a nonstress test ( NST ) or biophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
There is no clinical experience with the use of BENICAR HCT ® in pregnant women .
No teratogenic effects were observed when 1 . 6 : 1 combinations of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide were administered to pregnant mice at oral doses up to 1625 mg / kg / day ( 122 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) or pregnant rats at oral doses up to 1625 mg / kg / day ( 280 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In rats , however , fetal body weights at 1625 mg / kg / day ( a toxic , sometimes lethal dose in the dams ) were significantly lower than control .
The no observed effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats , 162 . 5 mg / kg / day , is about 28 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the MRHD of BENICAR HCT ® ( 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil / 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide / day ) .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted PatientsIn patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with BENICAR HCT ® , as with any angiotensin receptor blocker .
Treatment should start under close medical supervision .
If hypotension does occur , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
When electrolyte and fluid imbalances have been corrected , therapy usually can be continued without difficulty .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment .
HydrochlorothiazideHepatic ImpairmentThiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Hypersensitivity ReactionHypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
Systemic Lupus ErythematosusThiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Lithium InteractionLithium generally should not be given with thiazides ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ; Hydrochlorothiazide , Lithium ) .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralOlmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazideIn a double - blind clinical trial of various doses of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide , the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia ( serum potassium < 3 . 4 mEq / L ) was 2 . 1 % ; the incidence of hyperkalemia ( serum potassium > 5 . 7 mEq / L ) was 0 . 4 % .
In this trial , no patient discontinued due to increases or decreases in serum potassium .
HydrochlorothiazidePeriodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance : hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , confusion , seizures , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmia and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
In diabetic patients dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the post - sympathectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy .
Impaired Renal FunctionAs a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with olmesartan medoxomil .
In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . patients with severe congestive heart failure ) , treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) have been reported .
There has been no long - term use of olmesartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , but similar results may be expected .
Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Information for PatientsPregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of second and third trimester exposure to drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system and they should be told also that these consequences do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine drug exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
These patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving BENICAR HCT ® should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , BENICAR HCT ® should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of light - headedness and possible syncope .
Drug InteractionsOlmesartan medoxomilNo significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was co - administered with hydrochlorothiazide , digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers .
The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co - administration of antacids [ Al ( OH ) 3 / Mg ( OH ) 2 ] .
Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes ; thus , interactions with drugs that inhibit , induce or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected .
HydrochlorothiazideWhen administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Alcohol , Barbiturates , Or Narcotics – potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic Drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) – dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other Antihypertensive Drugs – additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins – absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent , respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH – intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor Amines ( e . g . Norepinephrine ) – possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants , Non depolarizing ( e . g . Tubocurarine ) – possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium – should not generally be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparation with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide .
Non - steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs – in some patients the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityOlmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazideNo carcinogenicity studies with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide have been conducted .
Olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide in a ratio of 20 : 12 . 5 was negative in the Salmonella - Escherichia coli / mammalian microsome reverse mutation test up to the maximum recommended plate concentration for the standard assays .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide were tested individually and in combination ratios of 40 : 12 . 5 , 20 : 12 . 5 and 10 : 12 . 5 , for clastogenic activity in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung ( CHL ) chromosomal aberration assay .
A positive response was seen for each component and combination ratio .
However , no synergism in clastogenic activity was detected between olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide at any combination ratio .
Olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide in a ratio of 20 : 12 . 5 , administered orally , tested negative in the in vivo mouse bone marrow erythrocyte micronucleus assay at administered doses of up to 3144 mg / kg .
No studies of impairment of fertility with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide have been conducted .
Olmesartan medoxomilOlmesartan medoxomil was not carcinogenic when administered by dietary administration to rats for up to 2 years .
The highest dose tested ( 2000 mg / kg / day ) was , on a mg / m2 basis , about 480 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 mg / day .
Two carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice , a 6 - month gavage study in the p53 knockout mouse and a 6 - month dietary administration study in the Hras2 transgenic mouse , at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( about 120 times the MRHD ) , revealed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of olmesartan medoxomil .
Both olmesartan medoxomil and olmesartan tested negative in the in vitro Syrian hamster embryo cell transformation assay and showed no evidence of genetic toxicity in the Ames ( bacterial mutagenicity ) test .
However , both were shown to induce chromosomal aberrations in cultured cells in vitro ( Chinese hamster lung ) and both tested positive for thymidine kinase mutations in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Olmesartan medoxomil tested negative in vivo for mutations in the MutaMouse intestine and kidney , and for clastogenicity in mouse bone marrow ( micronucleus test ) at oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg ( olmesartan not tested ) .
Fertility of rats was unaffected by administration of olmesartan medoxomil at dose levels as high as 1000 mg / kg / day ( 240 times the MRHD ) in a study in which dosing was begun 2 ( female ) or 9 ( male ) weeks prior to mating .
HydrochlorothiazideTwo - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 and TA 1538 , or in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations .
It was also not genotoxic in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , or the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) assay , the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assay and the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
PregnancyPregnancy Categories C ( first trimester ) and D ( second and third trimesters ) ( See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality ) Nursing MothersIt is not known whether olmesartan is excreted in human milk , but olmesartan is secreted at low concentration in the milk of lactating rats .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Thiazides appear in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of BENICAR HCT ® did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant diseases or other drug therapy .
Olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazideOlmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients .
Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated , with an incidence of adverse events similar to placebo .
Events generally were mild , transient and had no relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide .
In the clinical trials , the overall frequency of adverse events was not dose - related .
Analysis of gender , age and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide and placebo - treated patients .
The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2 . 0 % ( 25 / 1243 ) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide and 2 . 0 % ( 7 / 342 ) of patients treated with placebo .
In a placebo - controlled clinical trial , the following adverse events reported with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide occurred in > 2 % of patients , and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo , regardless of drug relationship : Olmesartan / HCTZ ( N = 247 ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 42 ) ( % ) Olmesartan ( N = 125 ) ( % ) HCTZ ( N = 88 ) ( % ) Gastrointestinal Nausea 3 0 2 1 Metabolic Hyperuricemia 4 2 0 2 Nervous System Dizziness 9 2 1 8 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 7 0 6 7 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of > 2 % , but were as , or more , common in the placebo group : headache and urinary tract infection .
Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1 . 0 % , whether or not attributed to treatment , in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open - label trials are listed below .
Body as a Whole : chest pain , back pain , peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System : vertigo Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , dyspepsia , gastroenteritis , diarrhea Liver and Biliary System : SGOT increased , GGT increased , SGPT increased Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperlipemia , creatine phosphokinase increased , hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal : arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia Respiratory System : coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders : rash Urinary System : hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2 / 1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide .
Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists .
Olmesartan medoxomilOther adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0 . 5 % , whether or not attributed to treatment , in more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy in controlled or open - label trials are tachycardia and hypercholesterolemia .
HydrochlorothiazideOther adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body as a Whole : weakness Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions Metabolic : hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm Nervous System / Psychiatric : restlessness Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis Skin : erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia Laboratory Test FindingsIn controlled clinical trials , clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Increases in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) and serum creatinine of > 50 % were observed in 1 . 3 % of patients .
No patients were discontinued from clinical trials of olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN or creatinine .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : A greater than 20 % decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit was observed in 0 . 0 % and 0 . 4 % ( one patient ) , respectively , of olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide patients , compared with 0 . 0 % and 0 . 0 % , respectively , in placebo - treated patients .
No patients were discontinued due to anemia .
Post - Marketing Experience : The following adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience : Body as a Whole : Asthenia , angioedema Gastrointestinal : Vomiting Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System : Acute renal failure , increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages : Alopecia , pruritus , urticaria OVERDOSAGE Olmesartan medoxomilLimited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could be encountered if parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation occurs .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be initiated .
The dialyzability of olmesartan is unknown .
No lethality was observed in acute toxicity studies in mice and rats given single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg olmesartan medoxomil .
The minimum lethal oral dose of olmesartan medoxomil in dogs was greater than 1500 mg / kg .
HydrochlorothiazideThe most common signs and symptoms of overdose observed in humans are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual recommended starting dose of BENICAR ® ( olmesartan medoxomil ) is 20 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume - contracted .
For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of therapy , the dose may be increased to 40 mg .
Doses above 40 mg do not appear to have greater effect .
Twice - daily dosing offers no advantage over the same total dose given once daily .
No initial dosage adjustment is recommended for elderly patients , for patients with moderate to marked renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min ) or with moderate to marked hepatic dysfunction ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
For patients with possible depletion of intravascular volume ( e . g . , patients treated with diuretics , particularly those with impaired renal function ) , BENICAR ® should be initiated under close medical supervision and consideration should be given to use of a lower starting dose ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses between 12 . 5 mg and 50 mg once daily .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of BENICAR ® are generally rare and independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are most typically dose - dependent ( primarily hypokalemia ) .
Some dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) do occur with hydrochlorothiazide .
Therapy with any combination of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
Replacement TherapyBENICAR HCT ® ( olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide ) may be substituted for its titrated components .
Dose Titration by Clinical EffectBENICAR HCT ® is available in strengths of 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 40 mg / 25 mg .
A patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled by BENICAR ® or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to once daily BENICAR HCT ® ( olmesartan medoxomil - hydrochlorothiazide ) .
Dosing should be individualized .
Depending on the blood pressure response , the dose may be titrated at intervals of 2 - 4 weeks .
If blood pressure is not controlled by BENICAR ® alone , hydrochlorothiazide may be added starting with a dose of 12 . 5 mg and later titrated to 25 mg once daily .
If a patient is taking hydrochlorothiazide , BENICAR ® may be added starting with a dose of 20 mg once daily and titrated to 40 mg , for inadequate blood pressure control .
If large doses of hydrochlorothiazide have been used as monotherapy and volume depletion or hyponatremia is present , caution should be used when adding BENICAR ® or switching to BENICAR HCT ® as marked decreases in blood pressure may occur ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients ) .
Consideration should be given to reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide to 12 . 5 mg before adding BENICAR ® .
The antihypertensive effect of BENICAR HCT ® is related to the dose of both components over the range of 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg to 40 mg / 25 mg ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Trials ) .
The dose of BENICAR HCT ® is one tablet once daily .
More than one tablet daily is not recommended .
BENICAR HCT ® may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Patients with Renal ImpairmentThe usual regimens of therapy with BENICAR HCT ® may be followed provided the patient ’ s creatinine clearance is > 30 mL / min .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so BENICAR HCT ® is not recommended .
Patients with Hepatic ImpairmentNo dosage adjustment is necessary with hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
HOW SUPPLIED BENICAR HCT ® is supplied as 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg : reddish - yellow , circular , film - coated tablets , approximately 8 . 5 mm in diameter , with " Sankyo " debossed on one side and “ C22 ” on the other side .
Each tablet contains 20 mg of olmesartan medoxomil and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
40 mg / 12 . 5 mg : reddish - yellow , oval , film - coated tablets , approximately 15 x 7 mm , with " Sankyo " debossed on one side and “ C23 ” on the other side .
Each tablet contains 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
40 mg / 25 mg : pink , oval , film - coated tablets , approximately 15 x 7 mm , with " Sankyo " debossed on one side and " C25 " on the other side .
Each tablet contains 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Tablets are supplied as follows : 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg 40 mg / 25 mg Bottle of 30 tablets NDC 54868 - 5170 - 0 NDC 54868 - 5075 - 0 NDC 54868 - 5078 - 0 Bottle of 90 tablets NDC 54868 - 5170 - 1 NDC 54868 - 5075 - 1 NDC 54868 - 5078 - 1 StorageStore at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for Daiichi Sankyo , Inc . , Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rx Only Copyright © Daiichi Sankyo , Inc . 2006 .
All rights reserved .
P1800706 Rev . December 2006 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL BENICAR HCT ® 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 40 mg / 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
