Rx only DESCRIPTION Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base contains apraclonidine hydrochloride , an alpha adrenergic agonist , in a sterile isotonic solution for topical application to the eye .
Apraclonidine hydrochloride is a white to off - white powder and is highly soluble in water .
Its chemical name is 2 - [ ( 4 - amino - 2 , 6 dichlorophenyl ) imino ] imidazolidine monohydrochloride with an empirical formula of C9H11Cl3N4 and a molecular weight of 281 . 57 .
The chemical structure of apraclonidine hydrochloride is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base contains : Active : apraclonidine hydrochloride 5 . 75 mg equivalent to apraclonidine base 5 mg ; Inactives : sodium acetate , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 4 to 7 . 8 ) and water for injection ; Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Apraclonidine hydrochloride is a relatively selective alpha - 2 - adrenergic agonist .
When instilled in the eye , apraclonidine ophthalmic solution has the action of reducing elevated , as well as normal , intraocular pressure ( IOP ) , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Ophthalmic apraclonidine has minimal effect on cardiovascular parameters .
Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
Apraclonidine ophthalmic solution has the action of reducing IOP .
The onset of action of apraclonidine can usually be noted within one hour , and maximum IOP reduction occurs about three hours after instillation .
Aqueous fluorophotometry studies demonstrate that apraclonidine ' s predominant mechanism of action is reduction of aqueous flow via stimulation of the alpha - adrenergic system .
Repeated dose - response and comparative studies ( 0 . 125 % to 1 . 0 % apraclonidine ) demonstrate that 0 . 5 % apraclonidine is at the top of the dose / response IOP reduction curve .
The clinical utility of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution is most apparent for those glaucoma patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy .
Patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy with uncontrolled IOP and scheduled to undergo laser trabeculoplasty or trabeculectomy surgery were enrolled into a double - masked , placebo - controlled , multi - center clinical trial to determine if apraclonidine ophthalmic solution , dosed three times daily , could delay the need for surgery for up to three months .
All patients enrolled into this trial had advanced glaucoma and were undergoing maximally tolerated medical therapy , i . e . , patients were using combinations of a topical beta blocker , sympathomimetics , parasympathomimetics and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors .
Patients were considered to be treatment failures in this study if , in the opinion of the investigators , their IOP was uncontrolled by the masked study medication or there was evidence of further optic nerve damage or visual field loss , and surgery was indicated .
Of 171 patients receiving masked medication , 84 were treated with apraclonidine ophthalmic solution and 87 were treated with placebo ( apraclonidine vehicle ) .
Apraclonidine treatment resulted in a significantly greater percentage of treatment successes compared to patients treated with placebo .
In this placebo - controlled maximum therapy trial , 14 . 3 % of patients treated with apraclonidine ophthalmic solution were discontinued due to adverse events , primarily allergic - like reactions ( 12 . 9 % ) .
The IOP lowering efficacy of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution diminishes over time in some patients .
This loss of effect , or tachyphylaxis , appears to be an individual occurrence with a variable time of onset and should be closely monitored .
An unpredictable decrease of IOP control in some patients and incidence of ocular allergic responses and systemic side effects may limit the utility of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution .
However , patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy may still benefit from the additional IOP reduction provided by the short - term use of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution .
Topical use of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution leads to systemic absorption .
Studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution dosed one drop three times a day in both eyes for 10 days , in normal volunteers , yielded mean peak and trough concentrations of 0 . 9 ng / mL and 0 . 5 ng / mL , respectively .
The half - life of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution was calculated to be 8 hours .
Apraclonidine ophthalmic solution , because of its alpha adrenergic activity , is a vasoconstrictor .
Single dose ocular blood flow studies in monkeys , using the microsphere technique , demonstrated a reduced blood flow for the anterior segment ; however , no reduction in blood flow was observed in the posterior segment of the eye after a topical dose of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution .
Ocular blood flow studies have not been conducted in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base is indicated for short - term adjunctive therapy in patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy who require additional IOP reduction .
Patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy who are treated with Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base to delay surgery should have frequent follow - up examinations and treatment should be discontinued if the intraocular pressure rises significantly .
The addition of Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base to patients already using two aqueous suppressing drugs ( i . e . , beta - blocker plus carbonic anhydrase inhibitor ) as part of their maximally tolerated medical therapy may not provide additional benefit .
This is because Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base is an aqueous suppressing drug and the addition of a third aqueous suppressant may not significantly reduce IOP .
The IOP lowering efficacy of Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base diminishes over time in some patients .
This loss of effect , or tachyphylaxis , appears to be an individual occurrence with a variable time of onset and should be closely monitored .
The benefit for most patients is less than one month .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Apraclonidine ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to apraclonidine or any other component of this medication , as well as systemic clonidine .
It is also contraindicated in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAO inhibitors ) .
WARNINGS Not for injection or oral ingestion .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
PRECAUTIONS General Glaucoma patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy who are treated with apraclonidine ophthalmic solution to delay surgery should have their visual fields monitored periodically .
Although the topical use of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution has not been studied in renal failure patients , structurally related clonidine undergoes a significant increase in half - life in patients with severe renal impairment .
Close monitoring of cardiovascular parameters in patients with impaired renal function is advised if they are candidates for topical apraclonidine therapy .
Close monitoring of cardiovascular parameters in patients with impaired liver function is also advised as the systemic dosage form of clonidine is partly metabolized in the liver .
While the topical administration of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution had minimal effect on heart rate or blood pressure in clinical studies evaluating glaucoma patients , the preclinical pharmacology profile of this drug suggests that caution should be observed in treating patients with severe , uncontrolled cardiovascular disease , including hypertension .
The possibility of a vasovagal attack should be considered and caution should be exercised in patients with a history of such episodes .
Apraclonidine ophthalmic solution should be used with caution in patients with coronary insufficiency , recent myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease , chronic renal failure , Raynaud ' s disease , or thromboangiitis obliterans .
Caution and monitoring of depressed patients are advised since apraclonidine has been infrequently associated with depression .
Apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence .
Patients who engage in hazardous activities requiring mental alertness should be warned of the potential for a decrease in mental alertness while using apraclonidine .
Topical ocular administration of two drops of 0 . 5 , 1 . 0 and 1 . 5 % apraclonidine ophthalmic solution to New Zealand albino rabbits three times daily for one month resulted in sporadic and transient instances of minimal corneal edema in the 1 . 5 % group only ; no histopathological changes were noted in those eyes .
Use of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution can lead to an allergic - like reaction characterized wholly or in part by the symptoms of hyperemia , pruritus , discomfort , tearing , foreign body sensation , and edema of the lids and conjunctiva .
If ocular allergic - like symptoms occur , apraclonidine ophthalmic solution therapy should be discontinued .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the contents .
The preservative in apraclonidine ophthalmic solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
Drug Interactions Apraclonidine should not be used in patients receiving MAO inhibitors ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Although no specific drug interactions with topical glaucoma drugs or systemic medications were identified in clinical studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution , the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants ( alcohol , barbiturates , opiates , sedatives , anesthetics ) should be considered .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine .
It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with apraclonidine can lead to a reduction in IOP lowering effect .
No data on the level of circulating catecholamines after apraclonidine withdrawal are available .
Caution , however , is advised in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
An additive hypotensive effect has been reported with the combination of systemic clonidine and neuroleptic therapy .
Systemic clonidine may inhibit the production of catecholamines in response to insulin - induced hypoglycemia and mask the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia .
Since apraclonidine may reduce pulse and blood pressure , caution in using drugs such as beta - blockers ( ophthalmic and systemic ) , antihypertensives , and cardiac glycosides is advised .
Patients using cardiovascular drugs concurrently with apraclonidine ophthalmic solution should have pulse and blood pressure frequently monitored .
Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of clonidine and other similar pharmacologic agents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No significant change in tumor incidence or type was observed following two years of oral administration of apraclonidine HCl to rats and mice at dosages of 1 . 0 and 0 . 6 mg / kg , up to 20 and 12 times , respectively , the maximum dose recommended for human topical ocular use .
Apraclonidine HCl was not mutagenic in a series of in vitro mutagenicity tests , including the Ames test , a mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , a chromosome aberration assay in cultured Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , a sister chromatid exchange assay in CHO cells , and a cell transformation assay .
An in vivo mouse micronucleus assay conducted with apraclonidine HCl also provided no evidence of mutagenicity .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats showed no adverse effect on male or female fertility at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg ( 5 to 10 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
Pregnancy Apraclonidine HCl has been shown to have an embryocidal effect in rabbits when given in an oral dose of 3 . 0 mg / kg ( 60 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
Dose related maternal toxicity was observed in pregnant rats at 0 . 3 mg / kg ( 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Apraclonidine ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when apraclonidine ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical studies the overall discontinuation rate related to apraclonidine ophthalmic solution was 15 % .
The most commonly reported events leading to discontinuation included ( in decreasing order of frequency ) hyperemia , pruritus , tearing , discomfort , lid edema , dry mouth , and foreign body sensation .
The following adverse reactions ( incidences ) were reported in clinical studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution as being possibly , probably , or definitely related to therapy : Ocular The following adverse reactions were reported in 5 to 15 % of the patients : discomfort , hyperemia , and pruritus .
The following adverse reactions were reported in 1 to 5 % of the patients : blanching , blurred vision , conjunctivitis , discharge , dry eye , foreign body sensation , lid edema , and tearing .
The following adverse reactions were reported in less than 1 % of the patients : abnormal vision , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , conjunctival edema , conjunctival follicles , corneal erosion , corneal infiltrate , corneal staining , edema , irritation , keratitis , keratopathy , lid disorder , lid erythema , lid margin crusting , lid retraction , lid scales , pain , photophobia .
Nonocular Dry mouth occurred in approximately 10 % of the patients .
The following adverse reactions were reported in less than 3 % of the patients : abnormal coordination , asthenia , arrhythmia , asthma , chest pain , constipation , contact dermatitis , depression , dermatitis , dizziness , dry nose , dyspnea , facial edema , headache , insomnia , malaise , myalgia , nausea , nervousness , paresthesia , parosmia , peripheral edema , pharyngitis , rhinitis , somnolence , and taste perversion .
Clinical practice The following events have been identified during post - marketing use of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to apraclonidine ophthalmic solution , or a combination of these factors , include : bradycardia and hypersensitivity .
OVERDOSAGE Ingestion of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution has been reported to cause bradycardia , drowsiness , and hypothermia .
Accidental or intentional ingestion of oral clonidine has been reported to cause apnea , arrhythmias , asthenia , bradycardia , conduction defects , diminished or absent reflexes , dryness of the mouth , hypotension , hypothermia , hypoventilation , irritability , lethargy , miosis , pallor , respiratory depression , sedation or coma , seizure , somnolence , transient hypertension , and vomiting .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
Hemodialysis is of limited value since a maximum of 5 % of circulating drug is removed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One to two drops of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution should be instilled in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Since apraclonidine ophthalmic solution will be used with other ocular glaucoma therapies , an approximate 5 minute interval between instillation of each medication should be practiced to prevent washout of the previous dose .
NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
NOT FOR ORAL INGESTION .
HOW SUPPLIED Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base in a sterile , isotonic , aqueous solution containing apraclonidine hydrochloride .
Supplied in a white plastic LDPE ophthalmic bottle with a natural LDPE controlled dropper tip and a purple polypropylene cap as follows : 5 mL NDC 17478 - 716 - 10 10 mL NDC 17478 - 716 - 11 Storage : Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing and light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Rx Only AKORN Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 AC00N Rev . 01 / 22 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label NDC 17478 - 716 - 10 0 . 5 % Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base Sterile Rx only 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label NDC 17478 - 716 - 10 Apraclonidine Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % as base FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY 5 mL Sterile Rx Only Akorn Logo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
