DESCRIPTION KRISTALOSE ( lactulose ) is a synthetic disaccharide in the form of crystals for reconstitution prior to use for oral administration Each 10 g of lactulose contains less than 0 . 3 g galactose and lactose as a total sum .
The pH range is 3 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
Lactulose is a colonic acidifier which promotes laxation .
The chemical name for lactulose is 4 - O - β - D - Galactopyranosyl - D - fructofuranose .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C12H22O11 .
The molecular weight is 342 . 30 .
It is freely soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY KRISTALOSE ® ( LACTULOSE ) is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and no enzyme capable of hydrolysis of this disaccharide is present in human gastrointestinal tissue .
As a result , oral doses of lactulose reach the colon virtually unchanged .
In the colon , lactulose is broken down primarily to lactic acid , and also to small amounts of formic and acetic acids , by the action of colonic bacteria , which results in an increase in osmotic pressure and slight acidification of the colonic contents .
This in turn causes an increase in stool water content and softens the stool .
Since lactulose does not exert its effect until it reaches the colon , and since transit time through the colon may be slow , 24 to 48 hours may be required to produce desired bowel movement .
Lactulose given orally to man and experimental animals resulted in only small amounts reaching the blood .
Urinary excretion has been determined to be 3 % or less and is essentially complete within 24 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE KRISTALOSE ® ( LACTULOSE ) For Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of constipation .
In patients with a history of chronic constipation , lactulose therapy increases the number of bowel movements per day and the number of days on which bowel movements occur .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Since KRISTALOSE ® ( LACTULOSE ) For Oral Solution contains galactose ( less than 0 . 3 g / 10 g as a total sum with lactose ) , it is contraindicated in patients who require a low galactose diet .
WARNINGS A theoretical hazard may exist for patients being treated with lactulose who may be required to undergo electrocautery procedures during proctoscopy or colonoscopy .
Accumulation of H2 gas in significant concentration in the presence of an electrical spark may result in an explosive reaction .
Although this complication has not been reported with lactulose , patients on lactulose therapy undergoing such procedures should have a thorough bowel cleansing with a non - fermentable solution .
Insufflation of CO2 as an additional safeguard may be pursued but is considered to be a redundant measure .
PRECAUTIONS General Since KRISTALOSE ® ( LACTULOSE ) For Oral Solution contains galactose and lactose ( less than 0 . 3 g / 10 g as a total sum ) , it should be used with caution in diabetics .
Information for Patients In the event that an unusual diarrheal condition occurs , contact your physician .
Laboratory Tests Elderly , debilitated patients who receive lactulose for more than six months should have serum electrolytes ( potassium , chloride , carbon dioxide ) measured periodically .
Drug Interactions Results of preliminary studies in humans and rats suggest that nonabsorbable antacids given concurrently with lactulose may inhibit the desired lactulose - induced drop in colonic pH . Therefore , a possible lack of desired effect of treatment should be taken into consideration before such drugs are given concomitantly with lactulose .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no known human data on long - term potential for carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
There are no known animal data on long - term potential for mutagenicity .
Administration of lactulose syrup in the diet of mice for 18 months in concentrations of 3 and 10 percent ( v / w ) did not produce any evidence of carcinogenicity .
In studies in mice , rats , and rabbits , doses of lactulose syrup up to 6 or 12 mL / kg / day produced no deleterious effects in breeding , conception , or parturition .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 3 or 6 times the usual human oral dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to lactulose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lactulose is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Precise frequency data are not available .
Initial dosing may produce flatulence and intestinal cramps , which are usually transient .
Excessive dosage can lead to diarrhea with potential complications such as loss of fluids , hypokalemia , and hypernatremia .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms There have been no reports of accidental overdosage .
In the event of overdosage , it is expected that diarrhea and abdominal cramps would be the major symptoms .
Medication should be terminated .
Oral LD50 The acute oral LD50 of the drug is 48 . 8 mL / kg in mice and greater than 30 mL / kg in rats .
Dialysis Dialysis data are not available for lactulose .
Its molecular similarity to sucrose , however , would suggest that it should be dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dosage is 10 g to 20 g of lactulose daily .
The dose may be increased to 40 g daily if necessary .
Twenty - four to 48 hours may be required to produce a normal bowel movement .
DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARATION Dissolve contents of packet in half a glass ( 4 ounces ) of water .
When Lactulose For Oral Solution is dissolved in water , the resulting solution may be colorless to a slightly pale yellow color .
HOW SUPPLIED KRISTALOSE ® ( LACTULOSE ) For Oral Solution is available in single dose packets of 10 g ( NDC 66220 - 719 - 01 ) and single dose packets of 20 g ( NDC 66220 - 729 - 01 ) .
The packets are supplied as follows : • NDC 66220 - 719 - 30 • ( Carton of thirty 10 g packets ) • NDC 66220 - 729 - 30 • ( Carton of thirty 20 g packets ) STORE AT ROOM TEMPERATURE , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 484 - 2700 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for : CUMBERLAND PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Nashville , TN 37203 KRISTALOSE is a registered trademark of Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Issued : July 2018 Principal Display panel – 10 Grams Carton Label NDC 66220 - 719 - 30 Kristalose ® ( lactulose ) For Oral Solution 10 Grams 30 Single Dose Packets CUMBERLAND ® PHARMACEUTICALS Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 10 Grams Pouch Label NDC 66220 - 719 - 01 Kristalose ® ( lactulose ) For Oral Solution CUMBERLAND ® PHARMACEUTICALS 10 Grams Single Dose Packet Rx only CONTENTS : Each packet contains 10 grams lactulose ( and less than 0 . 3 g galactose and lactose as a total sum ) .
This unit dose packet is not child resistant .
INDICATIONS : For the treatment of constipation .
See accompanying package insert .
USUAL ADULT DOSAGE : 10 to 20 grams daily .
See accompanying package insert .
Since lactulose does not exert its effect until it reaches the colon , and since transit time through the colon may be slow , 24 - 48 hours may be required to produce a normal bowl movement .
DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARATION : Dissolve contents of packet in half a glass ( 4 ounces ) of water .
Store at room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Nashville , TN , USA , 37203 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display panel – 20 Grams Carton Label NDC 66220 - 729 - 30 Kristalose ® ( lactulose ) For Oral Solution 20 Grams 30 Single Dose Packets CUMBERLAND ® PHARMACEUTICALS Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 20 Grams Pouch Label NDC 66220 - 729 - 01 Kristalose ® ( lactulose ) For Oral Solution CUMBERLAND ® PHARMACEUTICALS 20 Grams Single Dose Packet Rx only CONTENTS : Each packet contains 20 grams lactulose ( and less than 0 . 6 g galactose and lactose as a total sum ) .
This unit dose packet is not child resistant .
INDICATIONS : For the treatment of constipation .
See accompanying package insert .
USUAL ADULT DOSAGE : 10 to 20 grams daily .
See accompanying package insert .
Since lactulose does not exert its effect until it reaches the colon , and since transit time through the colon may be slow , 24 - 48 hours may be required to produce a normal bowl movement .
DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARATION : Dissolve contents of packet in half a glass ( 4 ounces ) of water .
Store at room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Nashville , TN , USA , 37203 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
