Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL / teaspoonful ) Mineral Oil 2 . 5 mL Purpose Lubricant Laxative Uses • relieves occasional constipation • generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 8 hours Warnings Do not use • for children under 6 years of age , pregnant women , bedridden patients or persons with difficulty swallowing .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting .
• a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a stool softener laxative When using this product do not take with meals Stop use and ask a doctor if • you notice rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative .
This may indicate a serious condition .
Discontinue use and consult a doctor .
• you need to use this product more than 1 week If breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take with meals • shake well before using • adults and children 12 years of age and over : 6 – 18 teaspoons per day or as directed by a doctor • children 6 to under 12 years of age : 2 – 6 teaspoons per day or as directed by a doctor • the maximum daily dose may be taken as a single dose or divided in up to 3 equal parts • children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor Inactive Ingredients Acacia , Benzoic Acid , Carrageenan ( Irish Moss ) , Ethyl Vanillin , Glycerin , Mapliene Triple Oil , Purified Water , Titanium Dioxide , Vanillin QUESTIONS Call 1 - 800 - 344 - 7239 Distributed by : INSIGHT Pharmaceuticals Corp .
Langhorne , PA 19047 - 1749 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 480 mL Bottle Label Do Not Purchase if perforated ring at bottom of cap is broken or missing .
KONDREMUL ® LUBRICANT LAXATIVE Mineral Oil ( microemulsion ) FOR RELIEF OF OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION Promotes gentle , predictable regularity of normal bowel movement .
Creamy liquid pours easily and leaves no oily aftertaste .
All dosages may be administered plain or mixed with warm or cold water , milk or cocoa .
Pleasant tasting and smooth acting , it passes through stomach and upper intestine without upset or dehydration .
Assures soft stool by retaining moisture balance and mixing thoroughly with bowel content .
Permits passage of stool without straining .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING Store at room temperature 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) 16 FL .
OZ .
( 480 ML ) 69871 C [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
