Licorice Ext Glycerine , menthol oil , sucralose , xylitol , purified water , etc ( Loss of appetite ) , stomach bloating , dyspepsia , overeating , nausea , vomiting , suicide , constipation , dilute stools , keep out of reach of the children Adult and 15 years and older : 1 time 10 mL Pediatric patients were divided into two groups : 1 to 11 years old , 6 . 5 mL , 8 to 10 years old , 5 . 0 mL , 5 to 7 years old , 3 . 5 mL , 3 - 4 years old , 2 . 5 mL , Take it three times a day after meals .
The interval should be 4 hours or more .
1 .
Do not take this medicine .
Do not take to infants ( infants , babies ) under 3 months .
In addition , infants ( infants and young babies ) who are under the age of one for at least three months must give priority to receiving medical attention , and should not be taken unless they are inevitable .
2 .
Consult a doctor , dentist or pharmacist before taking this medicine .
1 ) patients with hypertension , elderly ( elderly ) , cardiac or renal ( kidney ) patients , edema ( swelling ) patients 2 ) People who are taking other medicines : potassium - containing preparations , licorice - containing preparations , glycyrrhizic acid or its salt - containing preparations , loop - type diuretics ( furosemide , ethacrynic acid ) or thiazide diuretics ( trichloromethiazide ) ( Combined with ) Aldosteronism or hypokalemia due to myocarditis ( myopathy ) is likely to occur due to taking it carefully .
3 ) Patients receiving medical treatment 3 .
Immediately stop taking this drug and consult a doctor , dentist or pharmacist if : Have this attached document at the time of consultation .
1 ) Upper aldosteronism : If you have decreased urine volume , face and hands and feet are swollen , your eyelids are getting heavy , your hands are hardening , your blood pressure is getting high or you have a headache ( such as a maximum dose of 1 g per day as a licorice , Observation ( measurement of serum potassium levels ) should be sufficient and should be discontinued if abnormality is confirmed , because gastric aldosteronism such as elevation of blood pressure , elevation of blood pressure , retention of sodium body fluid ( swelling ) , swelling ( swelling ) 2 ) Myopathy ( myopathy ) : As a result of hypokalemia , myopathy ( myopathy ) may occur .
If the observation is sufficient and anomalies such as helplessness , cramps and paralysis are confirmed 3 ) If there is no improvement in symptoms even for several days 4 .
Other cautions when taking this medicine 1 ) Keep the prescribed dosage and dosage .
2 ) When taking a child , take it under the supervision of a guardian .
3 ) Do not take it for a long time .
5 .
Storage Precautions 1 ) Keep out of reach of children .
2 ) Taking medicines out of their original containers and storing them in other containers may cause accidents or poor quality of medicines due to misuse ( misuse ) , so keep them in their original container and keep them tightly closed .
3 ) Avoid direct sunlight and store in a cool , dry place .
for oral use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
