Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses For treatment of acne Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if you have very sensitive skin or are sensitive to salicylic acid .
When using this product - avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
Keep away from eyes lips and mouth .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Irritation may develop such as redness , burning , itching peeling or possibly swelling .
More frequent use or higher concentrations may aggravate such irritation .
Mild irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently .
using this product in tandem with other topical acne treatments may increase dryness or cause irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a physician .
If irritation becomes severe , or persists , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Wet face with warm water , apply cleanser and work into a lather , then gently massage over face in a circular motion .
Avoid sensitive eye area .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If excessive drying occurs , use every other day .
If going outside use a sunscreen .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Sodium C14 - 16 Olefin Sulfonate , Cocamidopropryl Betaine , Sodium C12 - 15 Pareth - 15 Sulfonate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Anthemis Nobilis flower extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Linoleamidopropyl PG - Dimonium Chloride Phosphate , Disodium EDTA , Propylene Glycol , Butylene Glycol , Yellow 5 ( CI191440 ) , Red 40 ( CI 16035 ) , Sodium Chloride , Fragrance .
Questions or for more information visit www . specificbeauty . com or please call : ( 877 ) 358 - 1122 Information disponable en Espanol Morning Follow with Skin Brightening Serum and Daily Hydrating Lotion SPF 30 Evening Follow with Skin Brightening Serum and Night Treatment Complex Rx Dermatologist designed regimen * is not prescription strength Acne Treatment Cleanser a salicylic acid wash gentle enough for daily use , yet tough enough to get into the pores to help reduce acne blemishes .
Leaves the skin feeling soft and smooth , not tight and dry .
Specific Beauty is a dermatologist tested , designed and proven effective treatment line .
The result of years of experience and expertise , it is specifically designed for multi - hued skin tones .
This regimen contains products that were formulated to be used together so the final results are benefits that are clearly visible .
When used as directed , Specific Beauty regimen will result in a more even skin tone , improved skin texture and leaves skin hydrated , brighter and more radiant .
Perfect for all skin types .
H . Woolery - Lloyd , M . D . Specific Beauty has a complete line of products that compliment each other MORNING USE STEP 1 Acne Treatment Cleanser or Daily Gentle Cleanser S TEP 2 Skin Brightening Serum a breakthrough formula containing a multi - benefit complex of licorice , antioxidants and retinol STEP 3 Daily Hydrating Lotion | SPF 30 A lightweight moisturizer with SPF 30 , UVA / UVB Protection .
This unique formula is rich in the powerful antioxidant Vitamin E . EVENING USE STEP 1 Acne Treatment Cleanser or Exfoliating Cleansing Cloths STEP 2 Skin Brightening Serum refer to morning use .
STEP 3 Night Treatment Complex a night treatment that helps improve skin texture by delivering a dose of retinol to the skin .
USE AS NEEDED Professional Moisture Complex a patented moisture complex that helps restore the skins ' protective moisture barrier .
Ideal for all skin types .
In order to maintain the desired results , continued use of the complete Specific Beauty regimen is recommended .
Specific Beauty for multi - hued skin tones Clarifying Wash Acne Treatment Cleansr Step 1 Salicylic Acid 2 % AM / PM Rx Dermatologist Designed Regimen Minimizes breakouts , gently cleanses , unclogs pores , and removes oil PARABEN FREE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
