DESCRIPTION : • CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : • INDICATIONS AND USAGE : • CONTRAINDICATIONS : • WARNINGS : • PRECAUTIONS : • ADVERSE REACTIONS : • DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : • OVERDOSAGE : • DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : • STORAGE AND HANDLING • Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules , USP C - IV What is the most important information I should know about chlordiazepoxide ?
• Chlordiazepoxide is a benzodiazepine medicine .
Taking benzodiazepines with opioid medicines , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma and death .
• Chlordiazepoxide can make you sleepy or dizzy , and can slow your thinking and motor skills .
o Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how chlordiazepoxide affects you .
o Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking chlordiazepoxide without first talking to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , chlordiazepoxide may make your sleepiness or dizziness much worse .
o Do not take more chlordiazepoxide than prescribed .
What is chlordiazepoxide ?
• Chlordiazepoxide is a prescription medicine used : o to treat anxiety disorders o for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety o to treat withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism o preoperatively to treat apprehension and anxiety • Chlordiazepoxide is a federal controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep chlordiazepoxide in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away chlordiazepoxide may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
• It is not known if chlordiazepoxide is safe and effective in children under 6 years of age .
• It is not known if chlordiazepoxide is safe and effective for use for longer than 4 months .
Do not take chlordiazepoxide if you are allergic to chlordiazepoxide or to any of the ingredients in Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules .
Before you take chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • have liver or kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Chlordiazepoxide may harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take chlordiazepoxide while you are pregnant • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Chlordiazepoxide may pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take chlordiazepoxide .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking chlordiazepoxide with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well chlordiazepoxide or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
How should I take chlordiazepoxide ?
• Take chlordiazepoxide exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much chlordiazepoxide to take and when to take it .
• If you take too much chlordiazepoxide , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking chlordiazepoxide ?
• Chlordiazepoxide can cause you to be drowsy .
Do not drive a car or operate heavy machinery until you know how chlordiazepoxide affects you .
• You should not drink alcohol while taking chlordiazepoxide .
Drinking alcohol can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of chlordiazepoxide ?
Chlordiazepoxide may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about chlordiazepoxide ? ”
• Abuse and dependence .
Taking chlordiazepoxide can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Physical and psychological dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Withdrawal symptoms .
You may have withdrawal symptoms if you stop taking chlordiazepoxide suddenly .
Withdrawal symptoms can be serious and include seizures .
Mild withdrawal symptoms include a depressed mood and trouble sleeping .
Talk to your healthcare provider about slowly stopping chlordiazepoxide to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
The most common side effects of chlordiazepoxide include : • drowsiness • loss of control of body movements ( ataxia ) • confusion These are not all the possible side effects of chlordiazepoxide .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules ?
• Store Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules in a tightly closed container and out of the light .
• Keep Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules ?
Active ingredient : chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : FD & C Yellow No . 6 plus D & C Yellow No . 10 and either FD & C Blue No . 1 or FD & C Green No . 3 , D & C Yellow No . 10 and either FD & C Blue No . 1 plus FD & C Red No . 3 or FD & C Green No . 3 plus FD & C Red No . 40 , D & C Yellow No . 10 and either FD & C Green No . 3 or FD & C Blue No . 1 ( 10 mg only ) , FD & C yellow # 6 ( 10 mg only ) , gelatin , hydrogenated vegetable oil , lactose anhydrous , methylparaben , microcrystalline cellulose , propylparaben , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide Distributed by : Solco Healthcare U . S . , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 12 / 2017 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
