Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilating agent .
The chemical name for nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nitroglycerin tablets USP are compressed sublingual nitroglycerin tablets containing the non - volatile nitroglycerin fixing agent polyethylene glycol .
The tablets contain 0 . 3 mg ( 1 / 200 grain ) , 0 . 4 mg ( 1 / 150 grain ) , and 0 . 6 mg ( 1 / 100 grain ) nitroglycerin .
Also contains lactose NF , polyethylene glycol 3350 NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , colloidal silicon dioxide NF , and magnesium stearate NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Relaxation of vascular smooth muscle is the principal pharmacologic action of nitroglycerin .
The mechanism by which nitroglycerin produces relaxation of smooth muscle is unknown .
Although venous effects predominate , nitroglycerin produces , in a dose - related manner , dilation of both arterial and venous beds .
Dilation of the postcapillary vessels , including large veins , promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance and arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Myocardial oxygen consumption or demand ( as measured by the pressure - rate product , tension - time index and stroke - work index ) is decreased by both the arterial and venous effects of nitroglycerin , and amore favorable supply - demand ratio can be achieved .
Nitroglycerin also dilates large epicardial coronary arteries ; however , the extent to which this effect contributes to the relief of exertional angina is unclear .
Therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin may reduce systolic , diastolic , and mean arterial blood pressure .
Effective coronary perfusion pressure is usually maintained , but can be compromised if blood pressure falls excessively or increased heart rate decreases diastolic filling time .
Elevated central venous and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures , pulmonary vascular resistance and systemic vascular resistance are also reduced by nitroglycerin therapy .
Heart rate is usually slightly increased , presumably a reflex response to the fall in blood pressure .
Cardiac index may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure and systemic vascular resistance values in conjunction with a depressed cardiac index are likely to experience an improvement in cardiac index .
On the other hand , when filling pressures and cardiac index are normal , cardiac index may be slightly reduced by intravenous nitroglycerin .
Mechanism of Action Nitroglycerin forms free radical nitric oxide ( NO ) which activates guanylate cyclase , resulting in an increase of guanosine 3 ' 5 ' monophosphate ( cyclic GMP ) in smooth muscle and other tissues .
This eventually leads to dephosphorylation of the light chain of myosin , which regulates the contractile state in smooth muscle , resulting in vasodilation .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Nitroglycerin is rapidly absorbed following sublingual administration .
Its onset of action is approximately one to three minutes .
Significant pharmacologic effects are present for 30 to 60 minutes following administration by the above route .
Nitroglycerin is rapidly metabolized to dinitrates and mononitrates , with a short half - life , estimated at 1 to 4 minutes .
A liver reductase enzyme is of primary importance in the metabolism of nitroglycerin to glycerol nitrate metabolites and organic nitrate .
Two active major metabolites 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols are less potent vasodilators and have longer half - lives than the parent compound .
Dinitrates are metabolized to mononitrates and ultimately glycerol .
The monohydrate is not considered biologically active with respect to cardiovascular effects .
At plasma concentrations of between 50 and 500 ng / mL , the binding of nitroglycerin to plasma proteins is approximately 60 % , while that of 1 , 2 dinitroglycerin and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is 60 % and 30 % , respectively .
The activity and half - life of 1 , 2 - dinitroglycerin and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin are not well characterized .
The mononitrate is not active .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin is indicated for the acute relief of an attack or prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sublingual nitroglycerin therapy is contraindicated in patients with early myocardial infarction , severe anemia , increased intracranial pressure and those with a known hypersensitivity to nitroglycerin .
Administration of Nitroglycerin tablets USP is contraindicated in patients who are using Viagra ® ( sildenafil citrate ) .
Viagra ® has been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
WARNINGS The use of nitroglycerin during the early course of acute myocardial infarction requires particular attention to hemodynamic monitoring and clinical status .
PRECAUTIONS General Only the smallest dose required for effective relief of the acute anginal attack should be used .
Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance .
Nitroglycerin USP tablets are intended for sublingual or buccal administration and should not be swallowed .
Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur even with small doses of nitroglycerin .
The drug should be used cautiously in patients with volume depletion or low systolic blood pressure .
Paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris may accompany nitroglycerin - induced hypotension .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
Tolerance to the vascular and antianginal effects of nitroglycerin and cross - tolerance to other nitrates and nitrites may occur .
The drug should be discontinued if blurring of vision or drying of the mouth occurs .
Excessive dosage of nitroglycerin may produce severe headaches .
Information for patients If possible , patients should sit down when taking Nitroglycerin tablets USP .
This eliminates the possibility of falling due to lightheadedness or dizziness .
Nitroglycerin may produce a burning or tingling sensation when administered sublingually ; however , the ability to produce a burning or tingling sensation should not be considered a reliable method for determining the potency of the tablets .
Nitroglycerin should be kept in the original glass container , tightly capped .
The cotton should be discarded once the bottle is opened .
Administration of Nitroglycerin tablets USP is contraindicated in patients who are using Viagra ® ( sildenafil citrate ) .
Viagra ® has been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Interactions Drug interactions Concomitant use of nitrates and alcohol may cause hypotension .
Patients receiving antihypertensive drugs , beta - adrenergic blockers or phenothiazines and nitrates should be observed for possible additive hypotensive effects .
Marked orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used concomitantly .
Dose adjustment of either class of agent may be necessary .
Aspirin may decrease the clearance and enhance the hemodynamic effects of sublingual nitroglycerin .
A decrease in the therapeutic effect of sublingual nitroglycerin may result from use of long - acting nitrates .
Drug / laboratory test interactions Nitrates may interfere with the Ziatkis - Zak color reaction causing a false report of decreased serum cholesterol .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility No long - term studies in animals were performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nitroglycerin .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin .
It is also not known whether nitroglycerin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nitroglycerin should be given to apregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when intravenous nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of nitroglycerin in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Headache which may be severe and persistent may occur immediately after use .
Vertigo , weakness , palpitation and other manifestations of postural hypotension may develop occasionally , particularly in erect , immobile patients .
Marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates ( manifested by nausea , vomiting , weakness , diaphoresis , pallor and collapse ) may occur at therapeutic doses .
Syncope due to nitrate vasodilation has been reported .
Flushing , drug rash , and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Nitrate overdose may result in : severe hypotension , tachycardia , bradycardia , heart block , palpitation , death due to circulatory collapse , syncope , persistent throbbing headache , vertigo , visual disturbance , increased intracranial pressure , paralysis , and coma followed by convulsions , flushing and diaphoresis , nausea and vomiting , colic and diarrhea , dyspnea , methemoglobinemia .
Since hypotension from nitroglycerin overdosage results from venodilation and arterial hypovolemia , therapy should be directed toward central volume expansion .
Elevation of extremities may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion may also be necessary .
Use of arterial vasoconstrictors may do more harm than good .
Management of nitroglycerin overdose in patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure may require invasive monitoring .
If methemoglobinemia is present , intravenous administration of methylene blue 1 - 2 mg / kg of body weight may be required .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet should be dissolved under the tongue or in the buccal pouch at the first sign of an acute anginal attack .
The dose may be repeated approximately every five minutes , until relief is obtained .
If the pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15 - minute period , prompt medical attention is recommended .
Nitroglycerin tablets USP may be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities which might precipitate an acute attack .
During administration the patient should rest , preferably in the sitting position .
No dosage adjustment is required in patients with renal failure .
HOW SUPPLIED Nitroglycerin Tablets , USP are supplied as follows : 0 . 4 mg - White tablet embossed with a " 4 " .
4 x Bottles of 25 : NDC 21695 - 697 - 25 Bottle of 100 : NDC 21695 - 810 - 00 Store up to 25 o C ( 77 o F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Manufactured By : Konec , Inc , Tucson , AZ 65713 Manufactured For : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Generics Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkgenerics . com Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NITROGLYCERIN TABLETS USP Patient Information Booklet This booklet provides general guidance and instruction on the use of Nitroglycerin Tablet USP .
You should use this booklet as a handy reminder of your doctor ' s instructions .
Remember to always follow the directions your doctor gave you , and ask your doctor if you have any questions about Nitroglycerin Tablets therapy .
Nitroglycerin Tablets should not be used if you are severely anemic , have been diagnosed with increased pressure on the brain , or are sensitive / allergic to Nitroglycerin .
If you are taking Nitroglycerin Tablets , you should not take Viagra ® ( sildenafil citrate ) .
While using Nitroglycerin Tablets , if you experience blurring of vision or drying of the mouth , discontinue use and let your doctor know .
Nitroglycerin Tablets may cause anotable drop in blood pressure if you are taking blood pressure medication , consuming alcohol , or taking nitrates or antipsychotics .
Excessive use of Nitroglycerin Tablets may lead to tolerance .
Headache may occur immediately after Nitroglycerin Tablets use .
Dizziness , weakness , and fainting may develop occasionally , especially in patients who are not lying down .
The cancer - causing potential of Nitroglycerin Tablets is unknown .
Unless specifically prescribed by a physician , Nitroglycerin Tablets should not be used in pregnant or nursing women or in children .
What is angina ?
Angina is a medical condition that causes you to feel temporary pain in your chest .
The pain may range from adull ache to a severe , crushing sensation .
Attacks can occur several times a day or every few weeks , months , or years .
What causes angina ?
Angina occurs when your heart muscle needs more oxygen than it can get .
This can happen at almost any time , especially during or following physical exertion , stress , or exposure to cold air .
What happens if angina is not treated ?
Angina is serious , and , if left untreated , it can lead to additional medical problems such as heart attack .
Your angina therapy could save your life .
Please read this booklet and make sure to follow your doctor ' s directions for your angina therapy .
Be sure to carry your Nitroglycerin Tablets with you at all times because you never know when you will need them .
How is angina treated ?
In addition to having patients modify their activities , one of the most commonly prescribed medications for angina is nitroglycerin .
Nitroglycerin Tablets USP and the nitroglycerin patches are nitrates , a form of nitroglycerin .
Nitroglycerin Tablets can be used immediately prior to activities that may bring on an angina attack and to treat an angina attack that has already started .
What are Nitroglycerin Tablets USP and how do they work ?
Nitroglycerin Tablets USP are a form of nitroglycerin used to relieve or prevent episodes of acute angina .
The drug is taken sublingually , meaning it is placed under the tongue to dissolve .
Nitroglycerin Tablets can relieve angina by dilating the arteries of the heart so that more oxygen - carrying blood can reach the heart muscle .
How should I use Nitroglycerin Tablets USP when I am having an angina attack ?
You may use up to three Nitroglycerin Tablets USP in a 15 minute period .
If you continue to feel pain after 15 minutes , call your doctor or seek medical attention immediately .
Stay calm and be aware that this unrelieved pain does not necessarily mean you are having a heart attack .
Always follow your doctors directions for use .
In general , the following schedule should be followed : ONSET : At the first sign of an attack , sit down and then place one Nitroglycerin Tablet under your tongue .
You should take Nitroglycerin Tablets while sitting because your blood pressure may drop and cause lightheadedness and dizziness .
5 MIN : If after waiting 5 minutes , your pain is still present , take a second Nitroglycerin Tablet .
10 MIN : Again , if after waiting another 5 minutes , the pain is still present , you should take a third Nitroglycerin Tablet .
15 MIN : If the pain continues 5 minutes or longer after your third Nitroglycerin Tablet , call your doctor or seek medical attention immediately to find out what to do next .
Can I use Nitroglycerin Tablets USP to prevent an angina attack ?
Nitroglycerin Tablets may also be used immediately before activities that you feel might cause an angina attack , such as exercise or sexual intercourse .
Since you are the best judge of what may set off an attack , be sure to have a bottle of Nitroglycerin Tablets on hand for those times in those places where you would most expect an attack .
Take one Nitroglycerin Tablet 5 to 10 minutes before you begin these activities , or follow your doctor ' s recommendations .
Can I swallow Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
No .
It is very important that each Nitroglycerin Tablet be placed under the tongue until it has fully dissolved .
Nitroglycerin Tablets should not be chewed , crushed or swallowed .
Can I eat , drink , or smoke while using Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
No , do not eat , drink any beverages ( including alcohol ) , smoke , or use chewing tobacco while a tablet is dissolving and / or when you are experiencing acute chest pain .
Should I expect any side effects when I take Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
Some patients may feel a slight stinging sensation while the tablet is dissolving under the tongue .
You also might experience warmth and flushing of the face or lightheadedness and dizziness .
Sometimes , patients experience mild to severe headaches with their first few Nitroglycerin Tablets .
These side effects usually are not signs of other problems , but you should let your doctor know if you have any concerns .
Why does this package contain four bottles of Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
Instead of one bottle of 100 tablets , each bottle of Nitroglycerin Tablets USP in the 4 - by - 25 pack contains 25 tablets .
Therefore , you can place the bottles in locations where you might have an angina attack , such as your bedroom , workroom , kitchen , or office .
Also , you should always keep a bottle in a jacket or coat pocket ( not a shirt or trouser pocket ) or purse .
By keeping Nitroglycerin Tablets in multiple locations , you will be sure to have your Nitroglycerin Tablets nearby when you need it .
What are the advantages of the 4 - by - 25 pack ?
When purchasing just one 100 - tablet bottle , patients cannot keep the drug in different locations without removing tablets from the original container .
This is a problem since only the original containers protect Nitroglycerin Tablets from air , heat , moisture , and light .
Exposure to these elements can reduce the strength of Nitroglycerin Tablets .
Use of the 4 - by - 25 pack is a convenient way to properly store Nitroglycerin Tablets .
Why is n't there cotton in the Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
The cotton has been left out of these bottles to make it as easy as possible for you to get a tablet when you need one .
How should I store Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
Keep bottles where you are likely to have an angina attack , and remember to always keep one bottle with you - for example , in a pocketbook , tote bag , or overcoat .
Keep the bottle loose and away from your body to protect the medication from body heat .
Nitroglycerin Tablets bottles should not be kept in trouser or shirt pockets .
To protect against loss of potency , Nitroglycerin Tablets should be stored in the original bottle and the bottle kept tightly closed .
Nitroglycerin Tablets should not be placed in a pillbox or any other container .
Do not place other medication in the Nitroglycerin Tablets bottle .
Do not refrigerate Nitroglycerin Tablets ; room temperature is best .
As with all medications , keep Nitroglycerin Tablets out of the reach of children .
How do I know when to replace a bottle of Nitroglycerin Tablets USP ?
If the medication has been exposed to ahigh temperature or if the date on the bottle has expired , it should be discarded .
Your pharmacist can help determine if your Nitroglycerin Tablets should be replaced .
Manufactured By : Konec , Inc , Tucson , AZ 65713 Manufactured For : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Generics Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkgenerics . com Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
