Rx Only DESCRIPTION Hydralazine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is an antihypertensive available in a 1 mL vial for intravenous and intramuscular administration .
Hydralazine Hydrochloride Injection USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic colorless solution .
Each mL contains : Active : Hydralazine Hydrochloride USP , 20 mg Preservatives : Methylparaben NF , 0 . 65 mg ; Propylparaben NF , 0 . 35 mg Inactives : Propylene Glycol USP , 103 . 6 mg ; Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid USP to adjust pH ( 3 . 4 to 4 . 4 ) and Water for Injection .
Hydralazine Hydrochloride USP is 1 - hydrazinophthalazine monohydrochloride , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula C8H8N4 • HCl Hydralazine Hydrochloride USP is a white to off - white , odorless crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol , and very slightly soluble in ether .
It melts at about 275 ° C , with decomposition , and has a molecular weight of 196 . 64 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the precise mechanism of action of hydralazine is not fully understood , the major effects are on the cardiovascular system .
Hydralazine apparently lowers blood pressure by exerting a peripheral vasodilating effect through a direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
Hydralazine , by altering cellular calcium metabolism , interferes with the calcium movements within the vascular smooth muscle that are responsible for initiating or maintaining the contractile state .
The peripheral vasodilating effect of hydralazine results in decreased arterial blood pressure ( diastolic more than systolic ) , decreased peripheral vascular resistance , and an increased heart rate , stroke volume , and cardiac output .
The preferential dilatation of arterioles , as compared to veins , minimizes postural hypotension and promotes the increase in cardiac output .
Hydralazine usually increases renin activity in plasma , presumably as a result of increased secretion of renin by the renal juxtaglomerular cells in response to reflex sympathetic discharge .
This increase in renin activity leads to the production of angiotensin II , which then causes stimulation of aldosterone and consequent sodium reabsorption .
Hydralazine also maintains or increases renal and cerebral blood flow .
The average maximal decrease in blood pressure usually occurs 10 - 80 minutes after administration of hydralazine hydrochloride injection .
No other pharmacokinetic data on hydralazine hydrochloride injection are available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Severe essential hypertension when the drug cannot be given orally or when there is an urgent need to lower blood pressure .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to hydralazine ; coronary artery disease ; mitral valvular rheumatic heart disease .
WARNINGS In a few patients hydralazine may produce a clinical picture simulating systemic lupus erythematosus including glomerulonephritis .
In such patients hydralazine should be discontinued unless the benefit - to - risk determination requires continued antihypertensive therapy with this drug .
Symptoms and signs usually regress when the drug is discontinued but residua have been detected many years later .
Long - term treatment with steroids may be necessary .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests . )
PRECAUTIONS GeneralMyocardial stimulation produced by hydralazine can cause anginal attacks and ECG changes of myocardial ischemia .
The drug has been implicated in the production of myocardial infarction .
It must , therefore , be used with caution in patients with suspected coronary artery disease .
The " hyperdynamic " circulation caused by hydralazine may accentuate specific cardiovascular inadequacies .
For example , hydralazine may increase pulmonary artery pressure in patients with mitral valvular disease .
The drug may reduce the pressor responses to epinephrine .
Postural hypotension may result from hydralazine hydrochloride but is less common than with ganglionic blocking agents .
It should be used with caution in patients with cerebral vascular accidents .
In hypertensive patients with normal kidneys who are treated with hydralazine , there is evidence of increased renal blood flow and a maintenance of glomerular filtration rate .
In some instances where control values were below normal , improved renal function has been noted after administration of hydralazine .
However , as with any antihypertensive agent , hydralazine should be used with caution in patients with advanced renal damage .
Peripheral neuritis , evidenced by paresthesia , numbness , and tingling , has been observed .
Published evidence suggests an antipyridoxine effect , and that pyridoxine should be added to the regimen if symptoms develop .
Laboratory TestsComplete blood counts and antinuclear antibody titer determinations are indicated before and periodically during prolonged therapy with hydralazine even though the patient is asymptomatic .
These studies are also indicated if the patient develops arthralgia , fever , chest pain , continued malaise , or other unexplained signs or symptoms .
A positive antinuclear antibody titer requires that the physician carefully weigh the implications of the test results against the benefits to be derived from antihypertensive therapy with hydralazine hydrochloride .
Blood dyscrasias , consisting of reduction in hemoglobin and red cell count , leukopenia , agranulocytosis , and purpura , have been reported .
If such abnormalities develop , therapy should be discontinued .
Drug InteractionsMAO inhibitors should be used with caution in patients receiving hydralazine .
When other potent parenteral antihypertensive drugs , such as diazoxide , are used in combination with hydralazine , patients should be continuously observed for several hours for any excessive fall in blood pressure .
Profound hypotensive episodes may occur when diazoxide injection and hydralazine injection are used concomitantly .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityIn a lifetime study in Swiss albino mice , there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of lung tumors ( adenomas and adenocarcinomas ) of both male and female mice given hydralazine continuously in their drinking water at a dosage of about 250 mg / kg per day ( about 80 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study of rats given hydralazine by gavage at dose levels of 15 , 30 , and 60 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 to 20 times the recommended human daily dosage ) , microscopic examination of the liver revealed a small , but statistically significant , increase in benign neoplastic nodules in male and female rats from the high - dose group and in female rats from the intermediate - dose group .
Benign interstitial cell tumors of the testes were also significantly increased in male rats from the high - dose group .
The tumors observed are common in aged rats and a significantly increased incidence was not observed until 18 months of treatment .
Hydralazine was shown to be mutagenic in bacterial systems ( Gene Mutation and DNA Repair ) and in one of two rats and one rabbit hepatocyte in vitro DNA repair studies .
Additional in vivo and in vitro studies using lymphoma cells , germinal cells , and fibroblasts from mice , bone marrow cells from Chinese hamsters and fibroblasts from human cell lines did not demonstrate any mutagenic potential for hydralazine .
The extent to which these findings indicate a risk to man is uncertain .
While long - term clinical observation has not suggested that human cancer is associated with hydralazine use , epidemiologic studies have so far been insufficient to arrive at any conclusions .
PregnancyTeratogenic effectsPregnancy Category CAnimal studies indicate that hydralazine is teratogenic in mice at 20 - 30 times the maximum daily dose of 200 - 300 mg and possibly in rabbits at 10 - 15 times the maximum daily human dose , but that it is nonteratogenic in rats .
Teratogenic effects observed were cleft palate and malformations of facial and cranial bones .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Although clinical experience does not include any positive evidence of adverse effects on the human fetus , hydralazine should be used during pregnancy only if the expected benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when hydralazine injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established in controlled clinical trials , although there is experience with the use of hydralazine hydrochloride in children .
The usual recommended parenteral dosage , administered intramuscularly or intravenously , is 1 . 7 - 3 . 5 mg / kg of body weight daily , divided into four to six doses .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with hydralazine hydrochloride are usually reversible when dosage is reduced .
However , in some cases it may be necessary to discontinue the drug .
The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there has not been enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Common : Headache , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , palpitations , tachycardia , angina pectoris .
Less Frequent : Digestive : constipation , paralytic ileus .
Cardiovascular : hypotension , paradoxical pressor response , edema .
Respiratory : dyspnea .
Neurologic : peripheral neuritis , evidenced by paresthesia , numbness , and tingling ; dizziness ; tremors ; muscle cramps ; psychotic reactions characterized by depression , disorientation , or anxiety .
Genitourinary : difficulty in urination .
Hematologic : blood dyscrasias , consisting of reduction in hemoglobin and red cell count , leukopenia , agranulocytosis , purpura ; lymphadenopathy ; splenomegaly .
Hypersensitive Reactions : rash , urticaria , pruritus , fever , chills , arthralgia , eosinophilia , and , rarely , hepatitis .
Other : nasal congestion , flushing , lacrimation , conjunctivitis .
OVERDOSAGE Acute Toxicity : No deaths due to acute poisoning have been reported .
Highest known dose survived : adults , 10 g orally .
Oral LD50 in rats : 173 and 187 mg / kg .
Signs and SymptomsSigns and symptoms of overdosage include hypotension , tachycardia , headache , and generalized skin flushing .
Complications can include myocardial ischemia and subsequent myocardial infarction , cardiac arrhythmia , and profound shock .
TreatmentThere is no specific antidote .
Support of the cardiovascular system is of primary importance .
Shock should be treated with plasma expanders .
If possible , vasopressors should not be given , but if a vasopressor is required , care should be taken not to precipitate or aggravate cardiac arrhythmia .
Tachycardia responds to beta blockers .
Digitalization may be necessary , and renal function should be monitored and supported as required .
No experience has been reported with extracorporeal or peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When there is urgent need , therapy in the hospitalized patient may be initiated intramuscularly or as a rapid intravenous bolus injection directly into the vein .
Hydralazine hydrochloride injection should be used only when the drug cannot be given orally .
The usual dose is 20 - 40 mg , repeated as necessary .
Certain patients ( especially those with marked renal damage ) may require a lower dose .
Blood pressure should be checked frequently .
It may begin to fall within a few minutes after injection , with the average maximal decrease occurring in 10 - 80 minutes .
In cases where there has been increased intracranial pressure , lowering the blood pressure may increase cerebral ischemia .
Most patients can be transferred to oral hydralazine hydrochloride within 24 - 48 hours .
The product should be used immediately after the vial is opened .
It should not be added to infusion solutions .
Hydralazine hydrochloride injection may discolor upon contact with metal ; discolored solutions should be discarded .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydralazine Hydrochloride Injection USP , 20 mg / mL 1 mL Single Dose Vial Packaged in boxes of 10 NDC 54868 - 6266 - 0 StorageStore at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Akorn Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 HY00N Rev . 04 / 09 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - PACKAGE LABEL Hydralazine Hydrochloride Injection USP , 20 mg / mL NDC 54868 - 6266 - 0 1 mL Single Dose Vial / Box of 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
