Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistnat sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , phenoxyethanol , Alcohol denat . , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Sodium hyaluronate , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Silica , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopepetide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Description Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System Supercharge your Protect and Perfect Intense skincare regime with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum , clinically proveen to reduce the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles .
Key Ingredients Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM .
The serum has been powered by a combination of the most powerful form of Matrixyl plus a next generation peptide that work together to help restore more youthful looking skin .
Vitamin C , Gingko and Emblica Fruit Extract ( Antioxidant Complex ) target free radicals that can lead to premature skin aging .
Pro - Retinol and Alfalfa works at the surface of the skin to help normalize skin renewal , leaving skin looking smoother and feeling firmer .
Glycerin and Shea Butter moisturize and nourish the skin , leaving it feeling softer and smoother .
Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 in the Day Cream helps to provide protection against the aging effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures - See Drug Facts .
What is the No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System ?
The No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System is a light and silky skincare system containing our advanced clinically proven serum , a renewing day cream and an intensively nourishing night cream .
This daily skicare regime is designed to help smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and promote firmer feeling skin .
How do I use it ?
Use as part of your daily skincare routine .
Smooth No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum onto a clean face and neck with your finger tips .
In the morning , follow with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream .
At night , follow your serum application with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream to moisturize and help improve the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles while you sleep .
What should I use with these products ?
To complete your beauty rgime use No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Eye Cream , specially developed for deep lines and wrinkles around the delicate eye area .
Description Protect and Perfect Intense Skincare System Supercharge your Protect and Perfect Intense skincare regime with No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum , Clinically proven to reduce the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum Supercharge your skincare regime with this clinically proven serum .
No7 ' s highly acclaimed Protect and Perfect Intense Technology has been re - engineered to deliver even better anti - aging results .
Independently tested and proven to work .
This serum is powered by Matrixyl 3000 PlusTM , a combination of the most powerful form of Matrixyl , plus a next generation peptide that work together to help restore more youthful looking skin .
With our patented antioxidant complex , it helps protect skin from future signs of aging , keeping it looking younger for longer .
To use : Use morning and evening , smooth into your face and neck before applying your No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day and Night Creams .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream SPF 15 Smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and help delay new lines with this protecting and renewing daytime formula .
Formulated with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF15 to help provide protection from the aging effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures - see Drug Facts .
To use : Use in the morning after cleansing the skin and applying Protect and Perfect Intense Serum .
Massage in small upward circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream A rich , moisturizing cream that helps to restore the skin overnight and reduce the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles .
Works while the skin is at rest to leave it feeling soft and smooth .
To use : Use just before bedtime , after cleansing the skin and applying Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum .
Massage in small upward circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
