DESCRIPTION SECTION Fluticasone propionate , the active component of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is a synthetic corticosteroid having the chemical name S - ( fluoromethyl ) 6α , 9 - difluoro - 11β - 17 - dihydroxy - 16α - methyl - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carbothioate , 17 - propionate and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluticasone propionate is a white to off - white powder with a molecular weight of 500 . 6 , and the molecular formula is C25H31F3O5S .
It is practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethylformamide , and slightly soluble in methanol and 95 % ethanol .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 50 mcg is an aqueous suspension of microfine fluticasone propionate for topical administration to the nasal mucosa by means of a metering , atomizing spray pump .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP also contains microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , 0 . 02 % w / w benzalkonium chloride , polysorbate 80 , and 0 . 25 % w / w phenylethyl alcohol , and has a pH between 5 and 7 .
It is necessary to prime the pump before first use or after a period of non - use ( 1 week or more ) .
After initial priming ( 6 actuations ) , each actuation delivers 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate in 100 mg of formulation through the nasal adapter .
Each 16 - g bottle of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP provides 120 metered sprays .
After 120 metered sprays , the amount of fluticasone propionate delivered per actuation may not be consistent and the unit should be discarded .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION Mechanism of Action Fluticasone propionate is a synthetic , trifluorinated corticosteroid with anti - inflammatory activity .
In vitro dose response studies on a cloned human glucocorticoid receptor system involving binding and gene expression afforded 50 % responses at 1 . 25 and 0 . 17 nM concentrations , respectively .
Fluticasone propionate was 3 - fold to 5 - fold more potent than dexamethasone in these assays .
Data from the McKenzie vasoconstrictor assay in man also support its potent glucocorticoid activity .
In preclinical studies , fluticasone propionate revealed progesterone - like activity similar to the natural hormone .
However , the clinical significance of these findings in relation to the low plasma levels ( see Pharmacokinetics ) is not known .
The precise mechanism through which fluticasone propionate affects allergic rhinitis symptoms is not known .
Corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of effects on multiple cell types ( e . g . , mast cells , eosinophils , neutrophils , macrophages , and lymphocytes ) and mediators ( e . g . , histamine , eicosanoids , leukotrienes , and cytokines ) involved in inflammation .
In 7 trials in adults , Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP has decreased nasal mucosal eosinophils in 66 % ( 35 % for placebo ) of patients and basophils in 39 % ( 28 % for placebo ) of patients .
The direct relationship of these findings to long - term symptom relief is not known .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP like other corticosteroids , is an agent that does not have an immediate effect on allergic symptoms .
A decrease in nasal symptoms has been noted in some patients 12 hours after initial treatment with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
Maximum benefit may not be reached for several days .
Similarly , when corticosteroids are discontinued , symptoms may not return for several days .
PharmacokineticsAbsorption The activity of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is due to the parent drug , fluticasone propionate .
Indirect calculations indicate that fluticasone propionate delivered by the intranasal route has an absolute bioavailability averaging less than 2 % .
After intranasal treatment of patients with allergic rhinitis for 3 weeks , fluticasone propionate plasma concentrations were above the level of detection ( 50 pg / mL ) only when recommended doses were exceeded and then only in occasional samples at low plasma levels .
Due to the low bioavailability by the intranasal route , the majority of the pharmacokinetic data was obtained via other routes of administration .
Studies using oral dosing of radiolabeled drug have demonstrated that fluticasone propionate is highly extracted from plasma and absorption is low .
Oral bioavailability is negligible , and the majority of the circulating radioactivity is due to an inactive metabolite .
Distribution Following intravenous administration , the initial disposition phase for fluticasone propionate was rapid and consistent with its high lipid solubility and tissue binding .
The volume of distribution averaged 4 . 2 L / kg .
The percentage of fluticasone propionate bound to human plasma proteins averaged 91 % with no obvious concentration relationship .
Fluticasone propionate is weakly and reversibly bound to erythrocytes and freely equilibrates between erythrocytes and plasma .
Fluticasone propionate is not significantly bound to human transcortin .
Metabolism The total blood clearance of fluticasone propionate is high ( average , 1 , 093 mL / min ) , with renal clearance accounting for less than 0 . 02 % of the total .
The only circulating metabolite detected in man is the 17β - carboxylic acid derivative of fluticasone propionate , which is formed through the cytochrome P450 3A4 pathway .
This inactive metabolite had less affinity ( approximately 1 / 2 , 000 ) than the parent drug for the glucocorticoid receptor of human lung cytosol in vitro and negligible pharmacological activity in animal studies .
Other metabolites detected in vitro using cultured human hepatoma cells have not been detected in man .
Elimination Following intravenous dosing , fluticasone propionate showed polyexponential kinetics and had a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 7 . 8 hours .
Less than 5 % of a radiolabeled oral dose was excreted in the urine as metabolites , with the remainder excreted in the feces as parent drug and metabolites .
Special Populations Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP was not studied in any special populations , and no gender - specific pharmacokinetic data have been obtained .
Drug Interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4 .
Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and the highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended based upon a multiple - dose , crossover drug interaction study in 18 healthy subjects .
Fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray ( 200 mcg once daily ) was coadministered for 7 days with ritonavir ( 100 mg twice daily ) .
Plasma fluticasone propionate concentrations following fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray alone were undetectable ( < 10 pg / mL ) in most subjects , and when concentrations were detectable peak levels ( Cmax averaged 11 . 9 pg / mL [ range , 10 . 8 to 14 . 1 pg / mL ] and AUC ( 0 – τ ) averaged 8 . 43 pg ∙ hr / mL [ range , 4 . 2 to 18 . 8 pg ∙ hr / mL ] ) .
Fluticasone propionate Cmax and AUC ( 0 – τ ) increased to 318 pg / mL ( range , 110 to 648 pg / mL ) and 3 , 102 . 6 pg ∙ hr / mL ( range , 1 , 207 . 1 to 5 , 662 . 0 pg ∙ hr / mL ) , respectively , after coadministration of ritonavir with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray .
This significant increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulted in a significant decrease ( 86 % ) in plasma cortisol area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) .
Caution should be exercised when other potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors are coadministered with fluticasone propionate .
In a drug interaction study , coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate ( 1 , 000 mcg ) and ketoconazole ( 200 mg once daily ) resulted in increased fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol AUC , but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol .
In another multiple - dose drug interaction study , coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate ( 500 mcg twice daily ) and erythromycin ( 333 mg 3 times daily ) did not affect fluticasone propionate pharmacokinetics .
Pharmacodynamics In a trial to evaluate the potential systemic and topical effects of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP on allergic rhinitis symptoms , the benefits of comparable drug blood levels produced by Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP and oral fluticasone propionate were compared .
The doses used were 200 mcg of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP , the nasal spray vehicle ( plus oral placebo ) , and 5 and 10 mg of oral fluticasone propionate ( plus nasal spray vehicle ) per day for 14 days .
Plasma levels were undetectable in the majority of patients after intranasal dosing , but present at low levels in the majority after oral dosing .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP was significantly more effective in reducing symptoms of allergic rhinitis than either the oral fluticasone propionate or the nasal vehicle .
This trial demonstrated that the therapeutic effect of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP can be attributed to the topical effects of fluticasone propionate .
In another trial , the potential systemic effects of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis were also studied in allergic patients .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP given as 200 mcg once daily or 400 mcg twice daily was compared with placebo or oral prednisone 7 . 5 or 15 mg given in the morning .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP at either dose for 4 weeks did not affect the adrenal response to 6 - hour cosyntropin stimulation , while both doses of oral prednisone significantly reduced the response to cosyntropin .
Clinical Trials A total of 13 randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , multicenter , vehicle placebo - controlled clinical trials were conducted in the United States in adults and pediatric patients ( 4 years of age and older ) to investigate regular use of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis .
The trials included 2 , 633 adults ( 1 , 439 men and 1 , 194 women ) with a mean age of 37 ( range , 18 to 79 years ) .
A total of 440 adolescents ( 405 boys and 35 girls ) , mean age of 14 ( range , 12 to 17 years ) , and 500 children ( 325 boys and 175 girls ) , mean age of 9 ( range , 4 to 11 years ) were also studied .
The overall racial distribution was 89 % white , 4 % black , and 7 % other .
These trials evaluated the total nasal symptom scores ( TNSS ) that included rhinorrhea , nasal obstruction , sneezing , and nasal itching in known allergic patients who were treated for 2 to 24 weeks .
Subjects treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP exhibited significantly greater decreases in TNSS than vehicle placebo - treated patients .
Nasal mucosal basophils and eosinophils were also reduced at the end of treatment in adult studies ; however , the clinical significance of this decrease is not known .
There were no significant differences between fluticasone propionate regimens whether administered as a single daily dose of 200 mcg ( two 50 - mcg sprays in each nostril ) or as 100 mcg ( one 50 - mcg spray in each nostril ) twice daily in 6 clinical trials .
A clear dose response could not be identified in clinical trials .
In 1 trial , 200 mcg / day was slightly more effective than 50 mcg / day during the first few days of treatment ; thereafter , no difference was seen .
Two randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , multicenter , vehicle placebo - controlled 28 - day trials were conducted in the United States in 732 patients ( 243 given fluticasone propionate ) 12 years of age and older to investigate " as - needed " use of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP ( 200 mcg ) in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
Patients were instructed to take the study medication only on days when they thought they needed the medication for symptom control , not to exceed 2 sprays per nostril on any day , and not more than once daily .
" As - needed " use was prospectively defined as average use of study medication no more than 75 % of study days .
Average use of study medications was 57 % to 70 % of days for all treatment arms .
The studies demonstrated significantly greater reduction in TNSS ( sum of nasal congestion , rhinorrhea , sneezing , and nasal itching ) with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 200 mcg compared to placebo .
The relative difference in efficacy with as - needed use as compared to regularly administered doses was not studied .
Three randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , vehicle placebo - controlled trials were conducted in 1 , 191 patients to investigate regular use of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in patients with perennial nonallergic rhinitis .
These trials evaluated the patient - rated TNSS ( nasal obstruction , postnasal drip , rhinorrhea ) in patients treated for 28 days of double - blind therapy and in 1 of the 3 trials for 6 months of open - label treatment .
Two of these trials demonstrated that patients treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP at a dose of 100 mcg twice daily exhibited statistically significant decreases in TNSS compared with patients treated with vehicle .
Individualization of Dosage Patients should use Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP at regular intervals for optimal effect .
Adult patients may be started on a 200 - mcg once - daily regimen ( two 50 - mcg sprays in each nostril once daily ) .
An alternative 200 - mcg / day dosage regimen can be given as 100 mcg twice daily ( one 50 - mcg spray in each nostril twice daily ) .
Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and different degree of symptom relief .
In 4 randomized , double - blind , vehicle placebo - controlled , parallel - group allergic rhinitis studies and 2 studies of patients in an outdoor " park " setting ( park studies ) , a decrease in nasal symptoms in treated subjects compared to placebo was shown to occur as soon as 12 hours after treatment with a 200 - mcg dose of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
Maximum effect may take several days .
Regular - use patients who have responded may be able to be maintained ( after 4 to 7 days ) on 100 mcg / day ( 1 spray in each nostril once daily ) .
Some patients ( 12 years of age and older ) with seasonal allergic rhinitis may find as - needed use of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP ( not to exceed 200 mcg daily ) effective for symptom control ( see Clinical Trials ) .
Greater symptom control may be achieved with scheduled regular use .
Efficacy of as - needed use of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP has not been studied in pediatric patients under 12 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis , or patients with perennial allergic or nonallergic rhinitis .
Pediatric patients ( 4 years of age and older ) should be started with 100 mcg ( 1 spray in each nostril once daily ) .
Treatment with 200 mcg ( 2 sprays in each nostril once daily or 1 spray in each nostril twice daily ) should be reserved for pediatric patients not adequately responding to 100 mcg daily .
Once adequate control is achieved , the dosage should be decreased to 100 mcg ( 1 spray in each nostril ) daily .
Maximum total daily doses should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril ( total dose , 200 mcg / day ) .
There is no evidence that exceeding the recommended dose is more effective .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is indicated for the management of the nasal symptoms of seasonal and perennial allergic and nonallergic rhinitis in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older .
Safety and effectiveness of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in children below 4 years of age have not been adequately established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS SECTION The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency , and in addition some patients may experience symptoms of withdrawal , e . g . , joint and / or muscular pain , lassitude , and depression .
Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress .
In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long - term systemic corticosteroid treatment , too rapid a decrease in systemic corticosteroids may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms .
The concomitant use of intranasal corticosteroids with other inhaled corticosteroids could increase the risk of signs or symptoms of hypercorticism and / or suppression of the HPA axis .
A drug interaction study in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir ( a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor ) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure , resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
During postmarketing use , there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir , resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression .
Therefore , coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects .
Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals .
Chickenpox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids .
In children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route , and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed to chickenpox , prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information . )
If chickenpox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
PRECAUTIONS SECTION General Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
Rarely , immediate hypersensitivity reactions or contact dermatitis may occur after the administration of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
Rare instances of wheezing , nasal septum perforation , cataracts , glaucoma , and increased intraocular pressure have been reported following the intranasal application of corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate .
Use of excessive doses of corticosteroids may lead to signs or symptoms of hypercorticism and / or suppression of HPA function .
Although systemic effects have been minimal with recommended doses of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP potential risk increases with larger doses .
Therefore , larger than recommended doses of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP should be avoided .
When used at higher than recommended doses or in rare individuals at recommended doses , systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear .
If such changes occur , the dosage of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy .
In clinical studies with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally , the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred only rarely .
When such an infection develops , it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of treatment with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
Patients using Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa .
Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract ; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections ; systemic viral or parasitic infections ; or ocular herpes simplex .
Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing , patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulcers , nasal surgery , or nasal trauma should not use a nasal corticosteroid until healing has occurred .
Information for Patients Patients being treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid them in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients should be warned to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles and , if exposed , to consult their physician without delay .
Patients should use Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP at regular intervals for optimal effect .
Some patients ( 12 years of age and older ) with seasonal allergic rhinitis may find as - needed use of 200 mcg once daily effective for symptom control ( see Clinical Trials ) .
A decrease in nasal symptoms may occur as soon as 12 hours after starting therapy with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
Results in several clinical trials indicate statistically significant improvement within the first day or two of treatment ; however , the full benefit of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP may not be achieved until treatment has been administered for several days .
The patient should not increase the prescribed dosage but should contact the physician if symptoms do not improve or if the condition worsens .
For the proper use of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP and to attain maximum improvement , the patient should read and follow carefully the patient ' s instructions accompanying the product .
Drug Interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4 .
A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir ( a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor ) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure , resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions ) .
During postmarketing use , there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir , resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression .
Therefore , coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects .
In a placebo - controlled , crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers , coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate ( 1 , 000 mcg ; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose ) with multiple doses of ketoconazole ( 200 mg ) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure , a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC , and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol .
Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Fluticasone propionate demonstrated no tumorigenic potential in mice at oral doses up to 1 , 000 mcg / kg ( approximately 20 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults and approximately 10 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children on a mcg / m2 basis ) for 78 weeks or in rats at inhalation doses up to 57 mcg / kg ( approximately 2 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults and approximately equivalent to the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children on a mcg / m2 basis ) for 104 weeks .
Fluticasone propionate did not induce gene mutation in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells in vitro .
No significant clastogenic effect was seen in cultured human peripheral lymphocytes in vitro or in the mouse micronucleus test .
No evidence of impairment of fertility was observed in reproductive studies conducted in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 2 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
Prostate weight was significantly reduced at a subcutaneous dose of 50 mcg / kg .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category C Subcutaneous studies in the mouse and rat at 45 and 100 mcg / kg , respectively ( approximately equivalent to and 4 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m2 basis , respectively ) revealed fetal toxicity characteristic of potent corticosteroid compounds , including embryonic growth retardation , omphalocele , cleft palate , and retarded cranial ossification .
In the rabbit , fetal weight reduction and cleft palate were observed at a subcutaneous dose of 4 mcg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
However , no teratogenic effects were reported at oral doses up to 300 mcg / kg ( approximately 25 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m2 basis ) of fluticasone propionate to the rabbit .
No fluticasone propionate was detected in the plasma in this study , consistent with the established low bioavailability following oral administration ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Fluticasone propionate crossed the placenta following oral administration of 100 mcg / kg to rats or 300 mcg / kg to rabbits ( approximately 4 and 25 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Fluticasone propionate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Experience with oral corticosteroids since their introduction in pharmacologic , as opposed to physiologic , doses suggests that rodents are more prone to teratogenic effects from corticosteroids than humans .
In addition , because there is a natural increase in corticosteroid production during pregnancy , most women will require a lower exogenous corticosteroid dose and many will not need corticosteroid treatment during pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether fluticasone propionate is excreted in human breast milk .
However , other corticosteroids have been detected in human milk .
Subcutaneous administration to lactating rats of 10 mcg / kg of tritiated fluticasone propionate ( less than the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m2 basis ) resulted in measurable radioactivity in the milk .
Since there are no data from controlled trials on the use of intranasal fluticasone propionate by nursing mothers , caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Six hundred fifty ( 650 ) patients aged 4 to 11 years and 440 patients aged 12 to 17 years were studied in US clinical trials with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
The safety and effectiveness of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in children below 4 years of age have not been established .
Controlled clinical studies have shown that intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity in pediatric patients .
This effect has been observed in the absence of laboratory evidence of HPA axis suppression , suggesting that growth velocity is a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients than some commonly used tests of HPA axis function .
The long - term effects of this reduction in growth velocity associated with intranasal corticosteroids , including the impact on final adult height , are unknown .
The potential for " catch - up " growth following discontinuation of treatment with intranasal corticosteroids has not been adequately studied .
The growth of pediatric patients receiving intranasal corticosteroids , including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP should be monitored routinely ( e . g . , via stadiometry ) .
The potential growth effects of prolonged treatment should be weighed against the clinical benefits obtained and the risks / benefits of treatment alternatives .
To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids , including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP , each patient should be titrated to the lowest dose that effectively controls his / her symptoms .
A 1 - year placebo - controlled clinical growth study was conducted in 150 pediatric patients ( ages 3 to 9 years ) to assess the effect of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP ( single daily dose of 200 mcg , the maximum approved dose ) on growth velocity .
From the primary population of 56 patients receiving Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP and 52 receiving placebo , the point estimate for growth velocity with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP was 0 . 14 cm / year lower than that noted with placebo ( 95 % confidence interval ranging from 0 . 54 cm / year lower than placebo to 0 . 27 cm / year higher than placebo ) .
Thus , no statistically significant effect on growth was noted compared to placebo .
No evidence of clinically relevant changes in HPA axis function or bone mineral density was observed as assessed by 12 - hour urinary cortisol excretion and dual - energy x - ray absorptiometry , respectively .
The potential for Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP to cause growth suppression in susceptible patients or when given at higher doses cannot be ruled out .
Geriatric Use A limited number of patients 65 years of age and older ( n = 129 ) or 75 years of age and older ( n = 11 ) have been treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in US and non - US clinical trials .
While the number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety , the adverse reactions reported in this population were similar to those reported by younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION In controlled US studies , more than 3 , 300 patients with seasonal allergic , perennial allergic , or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate .
In general , adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes , and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself .
The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment .
Less than 2 % of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events ; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators .
Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months ' duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
If recommended doses are exceeded , however , or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids , symptoms of hypercorticism , e . g . , Cushing syndrome , could occur .
The following incidence of common adverse reactions ( > 3 % , where incidence in fluticasone propionate - treated subjects exceeded placebo ) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients ( 57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years , 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults ) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients ( 119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults ) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 200 mcg once daily over 6 months .
Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children ( 45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years ) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks .
Overall Adverse Experiences With > 3 % Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP in Patients ≥ 4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic RhinitisAdverse Experience Vehicle Placebo ( n = 758 ) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily ( n = 167 ) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily ( n = 782 ) % Headache 14 . 6 6 . 6 16 . 1 Pharyngitis 7 . 2 6 . 0 7 . 8 Epistaxis 5 . 4 6 . 0 6 . 9 Nasal burning / nasal irritation 2 . 6 2 . 4 3 . 2 Nausea / vomiting 2 . 0 4 . 8 2 . 6 Asthma symptoms 2 . 9 7 . 2 3 . 3 Cough 2 . 8 3 . 6 3 . 8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤ 3 % but ≥ 1 % of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate ( with uncertain relationship to treatment ) included : blood in nasal mucus , runny nose , abdominal pain , diarrhea , fever , flu - like symptoms , aches and pains , dizziness , bronchitis .
Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors .
General : Hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema , skin rash , edema of the face and tongue , pruritus , urticaria , bronchospasm , wheezing , dyspnea , and anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions , which in rare instances were severe .
Ear , Nose , and Throat : Alteration or loss of sense of taste and / or smell and , rarely , nasal septal perforation , nasal ulcer , sore throat , throat irritation and dryness , cough , hoarseness , and voice changes .
Eye : Dryness and irritation , conjunctivitis , blurred vision , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and cataracts .
Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION Chronic overdosage may result in signs / symptoms of hypercorticism ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Intranasal administration of 2 mg ( 10 times the recommended dose ) of fluticasone propionate twice daily for 7 days to healthy human volunteers was well tolerated .
Single oral doses up to 16 mg have been studied in human volunteers with no acute toxic effects reported .
Repeat oral doses up to 80 mg daily for 10 days in volunteers and repeat oral doses up to 10 mg daily for 14 days in patients were well tolerated .
Adverse reactions were of mild or moderate severity , and incidences were similar in active and placebo treatment groups .
Acute overdosage with this dosage form is unlikely since 1 bottle of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP contains approximately 8 mg of fluticasone propionate .
The oral and subcutaneous median lethal doses in mice and rats were > 1 , 000 mg / kg ( > 20 , 000 and > 41 , 000 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults and > 10 , 000 and > 20 , 000 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Patients should use Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP at regular intervals for optimal effect .
Adults The recommended starting dosage in adults is 2 sprays ( 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate each ) in each nostril once daily ( total daily dose , 200 mcg ) .
The same dosage divided into 100 mcg given twice daily ( e . g . , 8 a . m . and 8 p . m . ) is also effective .
After the first few days , patients may be able to reduce their dosage to 100 mcg ( 1 spray in each nostril ) once daily for maintenance therapy .
Some patients ( 12 years of age and older ) with seasonal allergic rhinitis may find as - needed use of 200 mcg once daily effective for symptom control ( see Clinical Trials ) .
Greater symptom control may be achieved with scheduled regular use .
Adolescents and Children ( 4 Years of Age and Older ) Patients should be started with 100 mcg ( 1 spray in each nostril once daily ) .
Patients not adequately responding to 100 mcg may use 200 mcg ( 2 sprays in each nostril ) .
Once adequate control is achieved , the dosage should be decreased to 100 mcg ( 1 spray in each nostril ) daily .
The maximum total daily dosage should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril ( 200 mcg / day ) .
( See Individualization of Dosage and Clinical Trials sections . )
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is not recommended for children under 4 years of age .
Directions for Use Illustrated patient ' s instructions for proper use accompany each package of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
HOW SUPPLIED SECTION Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP 50 mcg is supplied in an amber glass bottle fitted with a white metering atomizing pump , white nasal adapter , and transparent dust cap in a box of 1 ( NDC 60432 - 264 - 15 ) with patient ' s instructions for use .
Each bottle contains a net fill weight of 16 g and will provide 120 actuations .
Each actuation delivers 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate in 100 mg of formulation through the nasal adapter .
The correct amount of medication in each spray cannot be assured after 120 sprays even though the bottle is not completely empty .
The bottle should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations has been used .
Store between 4 ° and 30 ° C ( 39 ° and 86 ° F ) .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
