DESCRIPTION MAXIDEX ® ( Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate ) is an adrenocortical steroid prepared as a sterile ophthalmic ointment .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established name : Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Chemical name : Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - 21 - ( phosphonoxy ) - , disodium salt , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Each gram contains : Active : Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate equivalent to Dexamethasone Phosphate 0 . 5 mg ( 0 . 05 % ) Inactive : Mineral Oil .
White Petrolatum .
DM - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dexamethasone sodium phosphate suppresses the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and it probably delays or slows healing .
No generally accepted explanation of these steroid properties has been advanced .
INDCIATIONS AND USAGE Steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe .
These include allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctate keratits , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivities when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation ; corneal injury from chemical or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
CONTRAININDICATIONS Contraindicated in epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) ; fungal diseases of ocular structures ; acute infectious stages of vaccinia , varicella and many other viral disease of the cornea and conjunctiva ; mycobacterial infection of the eye and in those persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS Prolonged use may result in ocular hypertension and / or glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response an thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical corticosteroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , corticosteroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Employment of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex other than epithelial herpes simplex keratitis , in which it is contraindicated , requires great caution ; periodic slit - lamp microscopy is essential .
PRECAUTIONS General The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged corticosteroid dosing .
Information for Patients Do not touch tube tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of MAXIDEX ® Ointment .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
MAXIDEX Ointment should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Topically applied steroids are absorbed systemically .
Therefore , because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from dexamethasone sodium phosphate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported : glaucoma with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infections from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe .
Rarely , filtering blebs have been reported when topical steroids have been used following cataract surgery .
Rarely , stinging or burning may occur .
DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION The duration of treatment will vary with the type of lesion and may extend from a few days to several weeks , according to therapeutic response .
Relapses , more common in chronic active lesions than in self - limited conditions , usually respond to treatment .
Apply a one - half to one inch ribbon of ointment into the conjunctival sac ( s ) up to four times daily .
When a favorable response is observed , dosage may be reduced gradually to once a day application for several days .
MAXIDEX Ointment may be used in conjunction with MAXIDEX suspension .
HOW TO APPLY MAXIDEX OINTMENT • Tilt your head back .
• Place a finger on your cheek just under your eye and gently pull down until a “ V ” pocket is formed between your eyeball and your lower lid .
• Place a small amount ( about ½ inch ) of MAXIDEX in the “ V ” pocket .
Do not let the tip of the tube touch your eye .
• Look downward before closing your eye .
HOW SUPPLIED In 3 . 5 g ophthalmic tubes .
NDC 0065 - 0616 - 35 STORAGE Store at 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° to 80 ° F ) .
CAUTION : Federal ( USA ) law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
ALCON ® Ophthalmic Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134
