1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS PART TWO • 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • 9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE • 10 OVERDOSAGE • 11 DESCRIPTION • 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY • 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY • 14 CLINICAL STUDIES • 14 CLINICAL STUDIES • 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLLING 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Gabapentin Tablets USP ( gab ´´ a pen ´ tin ) What is the most important information I should know about gabapentin tablets ?
Do not stop taking gabapentin tablets without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping gabapentin tablets suddenly can cause serious problems .
Gabapentin tablets can cause serious side effects including : 1 .
Suicidal Thoughts .
Like other antiepileptic drugs , gabapentin tablets may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
• Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
Do not stop taking gabapentin tablets without first talking to a healthcare provider .
• Stopping gabapentin tablets suddenly can cause serious problems .
Stopping a seizure medicine suddenly in a patient who has epilepsy can cause seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
• Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
2 .
Changes in behavior and thinking - Using gabapentin in children 3 to 12 years of age can cause emotional changes , aggressive behavior , problems with concentration , restlessness , changes in school performance , and hyperactivity .
3 .
Gabapentin tablets may cause serious or life - threatening allergic reactions that may affect your skin or other parts of your body such as your liver or blood cells .
This may cause you to be hospitalized or to stop gabapentin .
You may or may not have a rash with an allergic reaction caused by gabapentin .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • skin rash • hives • difficulty breathing • fever • swollen glands that do not go away • swelling of your face , lips , throat , or tongue • yellowing of your skin or of the whites of the eyes • unusual bruising or bleeding • severe fatigue or weakness • unexpected muscle pain • frequent infections These symptoms may be the first signs of a serious reaction .
A healthcare provider should examine you to decide if you should continue taking gabapentin tablets .
What are gabapentin tablets ?
Gabapentin tablets are a prescription medicine used to treat : • Pain from damaged nerves ( postherpetic pain ) that follows healing of shingles ( a painful rash that comes after a herpes zoster infection ) in adults .
• Partial seizures when taken together with other medicines in adults and children 3 years of age and older with seizures .
Who should not take gabapentin tablets ?
Do not take gabapentin tablets if you are allergic to gabapentin or any of the other ingredients in gabapentin tablets .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in gabapentin tablets .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking gabapentin tablets ?
Before taking gabapentin tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have or have had kidney problems or are on hemodialysis • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • have diabetes • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if gabapentin can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while taking gabapentin tablets .
You and your healthcare provider will decide if you should take gabapentin tablets while you are pregnant .
o Pregnancy Registry : If you become pregnant while taking gabapentin tablets , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) Pregnancy Registry .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
You can enroll in this registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Gabapentin can pass into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide how you will feed your baby while you take gabapentin tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking gabapentin with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well they work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take gabapentin tablets ?
• Take gabapentin tablets exactly as prescribed .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much gabapentin to take .
o Do not change your dose of gabapentin tablets without talking to your healthcare provider .
o If you take gabapentin tablets and break a tablet in half , the unused half of the tablet should be taken at your next scheduled dose .
Half tablets not used within 28 days of breaking should be thrown away .
• Gabapentin tablets can be taken with or without food .
If you take an antacid containing aluminum and magnesium , such as Maalox ® , Mylanta ® , Gelusil ® , Gaviscon ® , or Di - Gel ® , you should wait at least 2 hours before taking your next dose of gabapentin tablets .
If you take too much gabapentin , call your healthcare provider or your local Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
What should I avoid while taking gabapentin tablets ?
• Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking gabapentin tablets without first talking with your healthcare provider .
Taking gabapentin tablets with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
• Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how gabapentin affects you .
Gabapentin tablets can slow your thinking and motor skills .
What are the possible side effects of gabapentin tablets ?
Gabapentin tablets may cause serious side effects including : See " What is the most important information I should know about gabapentin tablets ? "
• problems driving while using gabapentin tablets .
See " What I should avoid while taking gabapentin tablets ? "
• sleepiness and dizziness , which could increase the occurrence of accidental injury , including falls • The most common side effects of gabapentin tablets include : • lack of coordination • viral infection • feeling drowsy • nausea and vomiting • difficulty with speaking • tremor • swelling , usually of legs and feet • feeling tired • fever • jerky movements • difficulty with coordination • double vision • unusual eye movement Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of gabapentin tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store gabapentin tablets ?
• Store gabapentin tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep gabapentin tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of gabapentin tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use gabapentin tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give gabapentin tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about gabapentin tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about gabapentin tablets that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information call 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 .
What are the ingredients in gabapentin tablets ?
Active ingredient : gabapentin USP Inactive ingredients corn starch , copovidone , poloxamer 407 , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , talc , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , macrogol , polysorbate 80 and purified water .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
India Manufactured for : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma . com / usa December 2017 Manufactured by : ScieGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Hauppauge , NY 11788 USA Manufactured for : Solco Healthcare U . S , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA Rev : 11 / 17 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
