Drug Facts Active ingredients Colloidal Oatmeal 2 % Purpose Skin protectant Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to : ■ Eczema ■ Rashes Warnings For external use only .
When using this product ■ do not get into the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens .
■ symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately .
Directions Apply as needed .
Inactive ingredients acetyl hexapeptide - 49 , aloe barbadensis ( aloe vera ) leaf juice , caprylhydroxamic acid , caprylyl glycol , disodium succinoyl glycyrrhetinate , glycerin , hyaluronic acid , seawater , sodium hydroxide , tetrasodium EDTA , xanthan gum Other information For use on mild to moderate eczema or as directed by a physician .
Store at room temperature .
You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions ?
below .
Questions ?
Call 844 - EBBE - 866 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE : Apply to the affected area twice daily ( or as needed ) and massage gently .
Store in cool , dry place AD1 ATOPIC DERMATITIS GEL Atopic dermatitis is a skin alteration that consists of dry , flaky and irritated skin .
EBBE atopic dermatitis gel ( AD1 ) hydrates and provides the emollience required to balance and restore the cutaneous barrier function .
The high molecular weight hyaluronic acid forms a protective film over the skin ’ s surface layers , thereby reducing the loss of transepidermal water and providing intense and prolonged hydration .
The formula contains ultra - purified seawater with more than 75 minerals and trace elements .
EBBE atopic dermatitis gel ( AD1 ) reduces itching and flaking , whilst improving the skin ’ s hydration and elasticity .
The light texture is absorbed quickly .
Specially indicated for sensitive areas such as face , scalp , and groin .
Suitable for use on adults and children .
Distributed by Blue Sea Cosmetics Inc .
Tiburon , CA 94920 www . blueseacosmetics . com Made in Spain Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
