Active ingredients Purposes Glycerin 20 % Protectant Lidocaine 5 % Local anesthetic Phenylephrine HCl 0 . 25 % Vasoconstrictor Uses • • for temporary relief of pain , soreness and burning • • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • • temporarily reduces the swelling associated with irritated hemorrhoidal tissue • • temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • • temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression .
When using this product • • wash hands after use .
Avoid contact with eyes • • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • bleeding occurs • • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • • an allergic reaction develops • • the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain , or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or soft cloth before applying wipe .
• • apply externally to affected area up to 4 times daily .
• • unfold wipe and gently apply to the affected area by patting and then discard .
• • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • for best results , flush only one at a time Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , anhydrous citric acid , benzyl alcohol , edetate disodium , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 800 - 99 PrepH or 1 - 800 - 997 - 7374 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 Wipe Pouch Carton PREPARATION H ® New RAPID RELIEF WITH LIDOCAINE HEMORRHOIDAL WIPES Totables ® LIDOCAINE PHENYLEPHRINE HCl GLYCERIN Hygienically - wrapped for personal use • • Quickly numbs away pain • • Soothes burning & itching on contact • • Reduces swelling of inflamed tissue 10 Individually Wrapped FLUSHABLE WIPES 6 x 4 in .
( 15 . 2 x 10 . 2 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
