1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gleolan is indicated in patients with glioma [ suspected World Health Organization ( WHO ) Grades III or IV on preoperative imaging ] as an adjunct for the visualization of malignant tissue during surgery .
Gleolan is an optical imaging agent indicated in patients with glioma ( suspected World Health Organization Grades III or IV on preoperative imaging ) as an adjunct for the visualization of malignant tissue during surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For oral use only ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended reconstituted oral dose of Gleolan is 20 mg / kg .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer Gleolan to patient orally 3 hours ( range 2 to 4 hours ) before anesthesia .
( 2 . 1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for reconstitution information .
( 2 . 2 ) • Use appropriate visualization techniques with appropriate surgical microscopes and light source filters .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose • For oral use only • The recommended oral dose of reconstituted Gleolan is 20 mg / kg body weight .
More than 1 vial may be required .
2 . 2 Reconstitution of Gleolan Gleolan powder must be reconstituted prior to administration by a healthcare provider according to the following instructions : • Determine the total number of vials needed to achieve the intended dose for the patient according to the equation below ( rounded up to the nearest whole vial ) : # of vials = Patient Body Weight ( kg ) 75 kg / vial • Completely remove the white cap and aluminum crimp seal from each vial .
• Remove and retain the rubber stopper from the vial .
• Using an appropriate volumetric measuring device ( e . g . , flask , graduated cylinder , dosing syringe ) , measure 50 mL of drinking water and add to each vial containing 1 , 500 mg of Gleolan .
• Gently swirl the vial to completely dissolve the powder .
• The resulting reconstituted solution ( 30 mg of Gleolan per mL ) is clear and colorless to slightly yellowish .
• If required , replace the stopper and store reconstituted solution for up to 24 hours at room temperature prior to administration .
2 . 3 Gleolan Administration Gleolan is for ORAL USE ONLY .
The reconstituted Gleolan solution is administered according to the following steps : • Calculate the administration volume , in mL , to achieve the intended dose according to the following equation : Administration Volume ( mL ) = Patient Body Weight ( kg ) * 20 mg / kg 30 mg / mL • Transfer the entire contents of the prepared vial ( s ) into an appropriate dosing container ( e . g . , oral medicine bottle ) ; ensure the entire contents of the vials are transferred .
• After transfer , discard the empty vial ( s ) .
• Using a disposable volumetric syringe , remove the administration volume of reconstituted Gleolan solution from the dosing container and transfer to a separate oral dosing container .
• Discard unneeded volume of Gleolan solution .
• Administer orally 3 hours ( range 2 to 4 hours ) prior to induction of anesthesia .
2 . 4 Imaging Instructions • Gleolan must be used with a standard surgical operating microscope adapted with a blue light emitting light source ( power density 40 - 80 mW / cm2 ) and ancillary excitation and emission filters to visualize fluorescence excitation in the wavelength of 375 to 440 nm and for observation from 620 to 710 nm .
Filters transmit porphyrin fluorescence as red - violet , as well as a fraction of backscattered blue excitation light necessary for distinguishing nonfluorescing tissue .
• Gleolan should only be used by neurosurgeons who have completed a training program on use of fluorescence in surgery .
Training is provided by the distributor .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral solution : 1 , 500 mg aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride ( ALA HCl ) lyophilized powder , equivalent to 1 , 170 mg aminolevulinic acid ( ALA ) , in a 50 mL single - dose clear , colorless , glass vial with rubber stopper .
After reconstitution with 50 mL drinking water , the solution contains 30 mg per mL of aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride ( equivalent to 23 . 4 mg per mL of aminolevulinic acid ) and is clear and colorless to slightly yellowish in color .
For oral solution : 1 , 500 mg aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride lyophilized powder , equivalent to 1 , 170 mg aminolevulinic acid per vial .
The reconstituted aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride solution contains 30 mg per mL and is clear and colorless to slightly yellowish in color .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to the aminolevulinic acid ( ALA ) or porphyrins .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Acute or chronic types of porphyria , due to potential ineffectiveness of the drug in these patients .
• Hypersensitivity to aminolevulinic acid ( ALA ) or porphyrins .
( 4 , 5 . 3 , 6 . 2 ) • Acute or chronic types of porphyria .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Phototoxic reactions : Do not administer phototoxic drugs ( St . John ' s wort , griseofulvin , thiazide diuretics , sulfonylureas , phenothiazines , sulphonamides , quinolones and tetracyclines ) , and topical preparations containing ALA for 24 hours during the perioperative period .
Reduce exposure to sunlight or room lights for 48 hours after oral administration of Gleolan .
( 5 . 1 , 7 ) • Risk of misinterpretation : Non - fluorescing tissue in the surgical field does not rule out the presence of tumor .
( 5 . 2 , 14 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Phototoxic Reaction Due to the risk of phototoxic reactions , do not administer phototoxic drugs ( St . John ' s wort , griseofulvin , thiazide diuretics , sulfonylureas , phenothiazines , sulphonamides , quinolones and tetracyclines ) , and topical preparations containing ALA for 24 hours during the perioperative period [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Reduce exposure to sunlight or room lights for 48 hours after administration of Gleolan .
5 . 2 Risk of Misinterpretation Errors may occur with the use of Gleolan for intraoperative visualization of malignant glioma , including false negatives and false positives .
Non - fluorescing tissue in the surgical field does not rule out the presence of tumor in patients with glioma [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Fluorescence may be seen in areas of inflammation or metastases from other tumor types .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including serious hypersensitivity reactions have occurred ; these reactions include anaphylactic shock , swelling , and urticaria [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Always have cardiopulmonary resuscitation personnel and equipment readily available and monitor all patients for hypersensitivity reactions .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Adverse reactions occurring in > 1 % of patients in the week following surgery were pyrexia , hypotension , nausea , and vomiting .
( 6 . 1 ) • Adverse reactions occurring in < 1 % of patients in the first 6 weeks after surgery were : chills , photosensitivity reaction , solar dermatitis , hypotension , abnormal liver function test , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) • Neurologic events related to the surgical procedure occurred in 29 % of patients and included : aphasia , hemiparesis , hemianopia , headache , seizure , hemiplegia , monoparesis , hypoesthesia , and brain edema .
( 6 . 1 ) • Elevated liver enzymes occurred in clinical studies .
There were no cases of liver failure .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact NXDC toll - free at ( 844 ) 517 - 5252 and adverseevents @ nxdevcorp . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of Gleolan is supported by data from 5 open label clinical studies , which included 527 patients with glioma who received ALA HCl .
Adverse reactions that occurred in > 1 % of patients in the week following surgery were pyrexia , hypotension , nausea , and vomiting .
Adverse reactions occurring in the first 6 weeks after surgery in < 1 % of patients were : chills , photosensitivity reaction , solar dermatitis , hypotension , abnormal liver function test , and diarrhea .
One patient experienced respiratory failure due to drug overdose [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Neurologic Events Nervous system disorders occurred in 29 % of patients within the first week after surgery .
Events occurring in > 1 % of patients included aphasia ( 8 % ) , hemiparesis ( 7 . 8 % ) , hemianopsia ( 3 . 2 % ) , headache ( 2 . 7 % ) , seizure ( 1 . 9 % ) , hemiplegia ( 1 . 9 % ) , monoparesis ( 1 . 3 % ) and hypoesthesia ( 1 . 1 % ) .
Brain edema occurred in < 1 % of patients in the first 6 weeks after surgery .
In a randomized clinical trial ( Study 3 ) , the numbers of serious neurologic adverse events in the post operative period were higher in patients randomized to ALA fluorescence arm compared to the control arm .
An imbalance was notable for the adverse events aphasia , ataxia , convulsion and hemianopsia , and is likely related to the higher amount of brain resection performed in the ALA arm .
At longer follow up periods , the numbers between the two arms appeared similar [ see Clinical Trials ( 14 ) ] .
Elevated Liver Enzymes Worsening of ≥ 2 Common Toxicity Criteria ( CTC ) grades in alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and gamma - glutamyl transferase ( GGT ) occurred in ( 15 . 8 % and 11 . 6 % , respectively ) within the first week after surgery .
Absolute levels ranged from 2 times to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) for each parameter .
At 6 weeks , ALT remained elevated in 2 . 9 % of patients ( range 2 to greater than 5 × ULN ) , and GGT was elevated in 7 . 5 % of patients ( range 2 to greater than 10 × ULN ) .
No cases of liver failure occurred .
6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions are among those that have been identified during post - approval use of Gleolan outside of the United States .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune Disorders : anaphylactic shock , angioedema , drug eruption , urticaria , erythema .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : metabolic acidosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Phototoxic Drugs Patients exposed to a photosensitizing agent may experience a phototoxic skin reaction ( severe sunburn ) .
Due to the risk of possible phototoxic reactions , avoid administering phototoxic drugs such as St . John ' s wort , griseofulvin , thiazide diuretics , sulfonylureas , phenothiazines , sulphonamides , quinolones and tetracyclines , and topical preparations containing ALA for 24 hours before and after administration of Gleolan .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available human data on Gleolan in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed with oral ALA HCl administration to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis at doses 3 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Animal data ALA HCl was administered to rabbits at oral doses of 15 , 50 and 150 mg / kg / day [ approximately 0 . 1 , 0 . 6 , and 3 times the maximum human recommended dose ( MHRD ) , respectively based on AUC comparisons ] from gestation days 6 - 18 .
The no - observed - adverse - effect level ( NOAEL ) for maternal toxicity was 50 mg / kg / day and the NOAEL for embryo - fetal developmental toxicity was 150 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary There are no data on the presence of ALA HCl in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Gleolan and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Gleolan or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To decrease exposure to Gleolan to the breastfed infant , advise a lactating woman to pump and discard breast milk after the administration of Gleolan for 24 hours ( i . e . , 5 to 6 half - lives ) .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Gleolan in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 527 subjects in clinical studies of Gleolan , 182 were 65 to < 75 years of age and 7 were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment Because approximately one third of the ALA dose is excreted in urine as parent drug , ALA clearance may be reduced in patients with renal impairment ; it is not known if dose adjustment is needed [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment The contribution of the liver to the elimination of ALA following Gleolan dosing is unknown .
ALA clearance may be reduced in patients with hepatic impairment ; it is not known if dose adjustment is needed [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage has been associated with respiratory insufficiency and erythema .
In the event of overdose , supportive measures should be provided as necessary , including protection from strong light sources .
11 DESCRIPTION 11 . 1 Chemical Properties Gleolan ( aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride ) is an optical imaging agent for oral solution .
The 50 - mL , clear vial contains 1 , 500 mg of lyophilized aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride powder ( equivalent to 1 , 170 mg aminolevulinic acid ) .
After reconstitution , the product has a concentration of 30 mg aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride per mL ( equivalent to 23 . 4 mg aminolevulinic acid per mL ) .
The chemical name is 5 - amino - 4 - oxo - pentanoic acid hydrochloride .
The chemical formula for aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride is C5H10ClNO3 .
Its molecular weight is 167 . 59 g / mol with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ALA occurs endogenously as a metabolite that is formed in the mitochondria from succinyl - CoA and glycine .
Exogenous administration of ALA leads to accumulation of the ALA metabolite PpIX in tumor cells .
The reason for the accumulation of PpIX in neoplastic brain tissue is not known .
During glioma surgery , Gleolan is used with an operating microscope adapted with a blue emitting light source ( power density 40 - 80 mW / cm2 ) and filters for excitation light of wavelength 375 to 440 nm , and observation at wavelengths of 620 to 710 nm .
This allows tumor tissue to be visualized as red fluorescence .
Tissue lacking sufficient PpIX concentrations appears blue .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of the timing of the Gleolan dosing on fluorescence intensity in brain tissue is unknown .
The relationship between systemic ALA plasma concentrations at the time of visualization and fluorescence intensity in brain is also unknown .
The dose of 20 mg / kg provided stronger ALA - induced fluorescence in glioma tissue by both visual and spectrophotometric assessment compared to lower doses tested .
Cardiac Electrophysiology Administration of the approved recommended dose of Gleolan did not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In 12 healthy subjects , the mean half - life of ALA following the recommended dose of Gleolan solution was 0 . 9 ± 1 . 2 hours ( mean ± std dev ) with a range of 0 . 8 to 1 . 3 hours .
Maximum concentrations of the PpIX metabolite ( Tmax for PpIX ) occurred with a median of 4 hours and a range of 1 . 2 to 7 . 8 hours .
The elimination half - life of PpIX was 3 . 6 ± 1 . 8 hours ( mean ± std dev ) with a range of 1 . 2 to 7 . 8 hours .
Absorption In 12 healthy subjects , the absolute bioavailability of ALA following the recommended dose of Gleolan solution was 100 . 0 % ± 1 . 1 with a range of 78 . 5 % to 131 . 2 % .
Maximum ALA plasma concentrations were reached with a median of 0 . 8 hour ( range 0 . 5 – 1 . 0 hour ) .
Distribution In in vitro experiments using ALA concentrations up to approximately 25 % of the maximal concentration that occurs in plasma following the recommended dose of Gleolan solution , the mean protein binding of ALA was 12 % .
Elimination Metabolism Exogenous ALA is metabolized to PpIX , but the fraction of administered ALA that is metabolized to PpIX is unknown .
The average plasma AUC of PpIX is less than 6 % of that of ALA .
Excretion In 12 healthy subjects , excretion of parent ALA in urine in the 12 hours following administration of the recommended dose of Gleolan solution was 34 ± 8 % ( mean ± std dev ) with a range of 27 % to 57 % .
Specific Populations The effect of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ALA following Gleolan administration is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies suggest that phenytoin and other anti - convulsants may decrease cellular PpIX accumulation following Gleolan dosing .
ALA is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3 A .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with Gleolan .
Mutagenesis ALA HCl was not mutagenic in the Ames assay , HPRT - V79 mammalian cell mutagenicity test , the peripheral human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay and the in vivo mouse micronucleus test when studies were performed in the dark or under subdued lighting .
Impairment of Fertility No fertility studies have been conducted with Gleolan .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of 20 mg / kg ALA HCl was evaluated in 3 clinical studies ( Study 1 - 3 ) involving patients , ages 18 to 75 years old , who had a preoperative MRI compatible with high - grade glioma ( WHO Grade III or IV ) and were undergoing surgical resection .
Study 1 was an open - label study of 33 patients with newly diagnosed high - grade glioma and Study 2 was an open - label study of 36 patients with recurrent high - grade glioma .
In Studies 1 and 2 , after initial debulking was carried out under white light , biopsies were obtained under fluorescent light from fluorescent and nonfluorescent sites .
Presence of fluorescence ( positive / negative ) was compared to tumor status ( true / false ) using histopathology as the reference standard .
True positives and false positives among fluorescent biopsies and true negatives and false negatives among nonfluorescent biopsies are provided in Table 1 .
Study 3 was a randomized , multicenter study in 415 patients with a preoperative diagnosis of high - grade glioma by MRI .
Patients were randomized in 1 : 1 ratio to ALA fluorescence arm or to white light control arm .
Biopsies were obtained from tumor - core , tumor - margin and regions just distant to the tumor margins .
In 349 patients high grade glioma was confirmed by a blinded central read and histopathology .
The remaining patients were diagnosed with metastatic disease , abscess , low - grade glioma or other conditions .
In patients with confirmed high - grade glioma randomized to the ALA fluorescence arm , presence of fluorescence at a biopsy level was compared to tumor status using histopathology as the reference standard ( Table 1 ) .
In 4 patients with low - grade glioma ( WHO Grade I or II ) who received ALA HCl , 9 out of 10 biopsies were false negative .
The extent of resection among patients with confirmed high - grade glioma in the ALA fluorescence arm was compared to that among patient in the control arm , with the " completeness " of resection being determined by a central blinded read of early post - surgical MRI .
Percentage of patients who had " completeness " of resection was 64 % in the ALA arm and 38 % in the control arm , with the difference of 26 % [ 95 % CI : ( 16 % , 36 % ) ] .
Table 1 .
Presence of Fluorescence Compared to Histopathology ( biopsy level ) Study 1 ( N = 297 ) [ 1 ] Study 2 ( N = 370 ) null Study 3 ( N = 479 ) null Number of Fluorescent Biopsies 185 354 319 True Positive 178 342 312 False Positive 7 12 7 Number of Nonfluorescent Biopsies 112 16 160 True Negative 27 3 30 False Negative 85 13 130 [ 1 ] N is Number of total ( fluorescent and non - fluorescent ) biopsies 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Gleolan ( NDC 71469 - 231 - 01 ) is supplied as 1 , 500 mg of lyophilized aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride powder ( equivalent to 1 , 170 mg aminolevulinic acid ) , for oral solution in a 50 - mL clear , colorless , glass vial with a rubber stopper and an aluminum crimp seal .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients that they may experience elevated liver enzymes ( ALT and GGT ) within the first week after surgery .
This elevation may persist after 6 weeks .
Advise patients to reduce exposure to sunlight or room lights for 48 hours after administration of Gleolan due to risk of phototoxic reactions .
Distributed by : NX Development Corp . 870 Corporate Dr . , Suite 403 Lexington , KY 40503 Product of Germany PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 , 500 mg Vial Carton NDC 71469 - 231 - 01 Rx only Gleolan ™ ( aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride ) for oral solution 1 , 500 mg Reconstitute Prior To Use .
For Oral Use Only SINGLE - DOSE VIAL .
Discard Unused Portion One Vial NX Development Corp [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
