DESCRIPTION PRANDIN ® ( repaglinide ) is an oral blood glucose - lowering drug of the meglitinide class used in the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( also known as non - insulin dependent diabetes mellitus or NIDDM ) .
Repaglinide , S ( + ) 2 - ethoxy - 4 ( 2 ( ( 3 - methyl - 1 - ( 2 - ( 1 - piperidinyl ) phenyl ) - butyl ) amino ) - 2 - oxoethyl ) benzoic acid , is chemically unrelated to the oral sulfonylurea insulin secretagogues .
The structural formula is as shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repaglinide is a white to off - white powder with molecular formula C27 H36 N2 O4 and a molecular weight of 452 . 6 .
PRANDIN tablets contain 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , or 2 mg of repaglinide .
In addition each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : calcium hydrogen phosphate ( anhydrous ) , microcrystalline cellulose , maize starch , polacrilin potassium , povidone , glycerol ( 85 % ) , magnesium stearate , meglumine , and poloxamer .
The 1 mg and 2 mg tablets contain iron oxides ( yellow and red , respectively ) as coloring agents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Repaglinide lowers blood glucose levels by stimulating the release of insulin from the pancreas .
This action is dependent upon functioning beta ( ß ) cells in the pancreatic islets .
Insulin release is glucose - dependent and diminishes at low glucose concentrations .
Repaglinide closes ATP - dependent potassium channels in the ß - cell membrane by binding at characterizable sites .
This potassium channel blockade depolarizes the ß - cell , which leads to an opening of calcium channels .
The resulting increased calcium influx induces insulin secretion .
The ion channel mechanism is highly tissue selective with low affinity for heart and skeletal muscle .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : After oral administration , repaglinide is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
After single and multiple oral doses in healthy subjects or in patients , peak plasma drug levels ( Cmax ) occur within 1 hour ( Tmax ) .
Repaglinide is rapidly eliminated from the blood stream with a half - life of approximately 1 hour .
The mean absolute bioavailability is 56 % .
When repaglinide was given with food , the mean Tmax was not changed , but the mean Cmax and AUC ( area under the time / plasma concentration curve ) were decreased 20 % and 12 . 4 % , respectively .
Distribution : After intravenous ( IV ) dosing in healthy subjects , the volume of distribution at steady state ( Vss ) was 31 L , and the total body clearance ( CL ) was 38 L / h .
Protein binding and binding to human serum albumin was greater than 98 % .
Metabolism : Repaglinide is completely metabolized by oxidative biotransformation and direct conjugation with glucuronic acid after either an IV or oral dose .
The major metabolites are an oxidized dicarboxylic acid ( M2 ) , the aromatic amine ( M1 ) , and the acyl glucuronide ( M7 ) .
The cytochrome P - 450 enzyme system , specifically 2C8 and 3A4 , have been shown to be involved in the N - dealkylation of repaglinide to M2 and the further oxidation to M1 .
Metabolites do not contribute to the glucose - lowering effect of repaglinide .
Repaglinide appears to be a substrate for active hepatic uptake transporter ( organic anion transporting protein OATP1B1 ) .
Excretion : Within 96 hours after dosing with 14 C - repaglinide as a single , oral dose , approximately 90 % of the radiolabel was recovered in the feces and approximately 8 % in the urine .
Only 0 . 1 % of the dose is cleared in the urine as parent compound .
The major metabolite ( M2 ) accounted for 60 % of the administered dose .
Less than 2 % of parent drug was recovered in feces .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters : The pharmacokinetic parameters of repaglinide obtained from a single - dose , crossover study in healthy subjects and from a multiple - dose , parallel , dose - proportionality ( 0 . 5 , 1 , 2 and 4 mg ) study in patients with type 2 diabetes are summarized in the following table : Parameter Patients with type 2 diabetes [ 1 ] Dose 0 . 5 mg 1 mg 2 mg 4 mg AUC0 - 24 hr Mean ± SD ( ng / mL * hr ) : 68 . 9 ± 154 . 4 125 . 8 ± 129 . 8 152 . 4 ± 89 . 6 447 . 4 ± 211 . 3 Dose 0 . 5 mg 1 mg 2 mg 4 mg Cmax0 - 5 hr Mean ± SD ( ng / mL ) : 9 . 8 ± 10 . 2 18 . 3 ± 9 . 1 26 . 0 ± 13 . 0 65 . 8 ± 30 . 1 Dose 0 . 5 - 4 mg Tmax0 - 5 hr Means ( SD ) 1 . 0 - 1 . 4 ( 0 . 3 - 0 . 5 ) hr Dose 0 . 5 - 4 mg T ½ Means ( Ind Range ) 1 . 0 - 1 . 4 ( 0 . 4 - 8 . 0 ) hr Parameter Healthy Subjects CL based on i . v . 38 ± 16 L / hr Vss based on i . v . 31 ± 12 L AbsBio 56 ± 9 % CL = total body clearance Vss = volume of distribution at steady state AbsBio = absolute bioavailability [ 1 ] dosed preprandially with three meals These data indicate that repaglinide did not accumulate in serum .
Clearance of oral repaglinide did not change over the 0 . 5 - 4 mg dose range , indicating a linear relationship between dose and plasma drug levels .
Variability of Exposure : Repaglinide AUC after multiple doses of 0 . 25 to 4 mg with each meal varies over a wide range .
The intra - individual and inter - individual coefficients of variation were 36 % and 69 % , respectively .
AUC over the therapeutic dose range included 69 to 1005 ng / mL * hr , but AUC exposure up to 5417 ng / mL * hr was reached in dose escalation studies without apparent adverse consequences .
Special Populations Geriatric : Healthy volunteers were treated with a regimen of 2 mg taken before each of 3 meals .
There were no significant differences in repaglinide pharmacokinetics between the group of patients < 65 years of age and a comparably sized group of patients ≥ 65 years of age ( See PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
Pediatric : No studies have been performed in pediatric patients .
Gender : A comparison of pharmacokinetics in males and females showed the AUC over the 0 . 5 mg to 4 mg dose range to be 15 % to 70 % higher in females with type 2 diabetes .
This difference was not reflected in the frequency of hypoglycemic episodes ( male : 16 % ; female : 17 % ) or other adverse events .
With respect to gender , no change in general dosage recommendation is indicated since dosage for each patient should be individualized to achieve optimal clinical response .
Race : No pharmacokinetic studies to assess the effects of race have been performed , but in a U . S . 1 - year study in patients with type 2 diabetes , the blood glucose - lowering effect was comparable between Caucasians ( n = 297 ) and African - Americans ( n = 33 ) .
In a U . S . dose - response study , there was no apparent difference in exposure ( AUC ) between Caucasians ( n = 74 ) and Hispanics ( n = 33 ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions Drug interaction studies performed in healthy volunteers show that PRANDIN had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of digoxin , theophylline , or warfarin .
Co - administration of cimetidine with PRANDIN did not significantly alter the absorption and disposition of repaglinide .
Additionally , the following drugs were studied in healthy volunteers with co - administration of PRANDIN .
Listed below are the results : CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors / Inducer Gemfibrozil and Itraconazole : Co - administration of gemfibrozil ( 600 mg ) and a single dose of 0 . 25 mg PRANDIN ( after 3 days of twice - daily 600 mg gemfibrozil ) resulted in an 8 . 1 - fold higher repaglinide AUC and prolonged repaglinide half - life from 1 . 3 to 3 . 7 hr .
Co - administration with itraconazole and a single dose of 0 . 25 mg PRANDIN ( on the third day of a regimen of 200 mg initial dose , twice - daily 100 mg itraconazole ) resulted in a 1 . 4 - fold higher repaglinide AUC .
Co - administration of both gemfibrozil and itraconazole with PRANDIN resulted in a 19 - fold higher repaglinide AUC and prolonged repaglinide half - life to 6 . 1 hr .
Plasma repaglinide concentration at 7 h increased 28 . 6 - fold with gemfibrozil co - administration and 70 . 4 - fold with the gemfibrozil - itraconazole combination ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , PRECAUTIONS , Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
Fenofibrate : Co - administration of 200 mg fenofibrate with a single dose of 0 . 25 mg repaglinide ( after 5 days of once daily fenofibrate 200 mg ) resulted in unchanged AUC and Cmax values for both drugs .
Ketoconazole : Co - administration of 200 mg ketoconazole and a single dose of 2 mg PRANDIN ( after 4 days of once daily ketoconazole 200 mg ) resulted in a 15 % and 16 % increase in repaglinide AUC and Cmax , respectively .
The increases were from 20 . 2 ng / mL to 23 . 5 ng / mL for Cmax and from 38 . 9 ng / mL * hr to 44 . 9 ng / mL * hr for AUC .
Trimethoprim : Co - administration of 160 mg trimethoprim and a single dose of 0 . 25 mg PRANDIN ( after 2 days of twice daily and one dose on the third day of trimethoprim 160 mg ) resulted in a 61 % and 41 % increase in repaglinide AUC and Cmax , respectively .
The increase in AUC was from 5 . 9 ng / mL * hr to 9 . 6 ng / mL * hr and the increase in Cmax was from 4 . 7 ng / mL to 6 . 6 ng / mL .
Cyclosporine : Co - administration of 100 mg cyclosporine with a single dose of 0 . 25 mg repaglinide ( after two 100 mg doses of cyclosporine twelve hours apart ) increased the repaglinide ( 0 . 25 mg ) Cmax 1 . 8 - fold and the AUC 2 . 5 - fold in an interaction study with healthy volunteers ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
Rifampin : Co - administration of 600 mg rifampin and a single dose of 4 mg PRANDIN ( after 6 days of once daily rifampin 600 mg ) resulted in a 32 % and 26 % decrease in repaglinide AUC and Cmax , respectively .
The decreases were from 40 . 4 ng / mL to 29 . 7 ng / mL for Cmax and from 56 . 8 ng / mL * hr to 38 . 7 ng / mL * hr for AUC .
In another study , co - administration of 600 mg rifampin and a single dose of 4 mg PRANDIN ( after 6 days of once daily rifampin 600 mg ) resulted in a 48 % and 17 % decrease in repaglinide median AUC and median Cmax respectively .
The median decreases were from 54 ng / mL * hr to 28 ng / mL * hr for AUC and from 35 ng / mL to 29 ng / mL for Cmax .
PRANDIN administered by itself ( after 7 days of once daily rifampin 600 mg ) resulted in an 80 % and 79 % decrease in repaglinide median AUC and Cmax respectively .
The decreases were from 54 ng / mL * hr to 11 ng / mL * hr for AUC and from 35 ng / mL to 7 . 5 ng / mL for Cmax .
Levonorgestrel & Ethinyl Estradiol : Co - administration of a combination tablet of 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol administered once daily for 21 days with 2 mg PRANDIN administered three times daily ( days 1 - 4 ) and a single dose on Day 5 resulted in 20 % increases in repaglinide , levonorgestrel , and ethinyl estradiol Cmax .
The increase in repaglinide Cmax was from 40 . 5 ng / mL to 47 . 4 ng / mL .
Ethinyl estradiol AUC parameters were increased by 20 % , while repaglinide and levonorgestrel AUC values remained unchanged .
Simvastatin : Co - administration of 20 mg simvastatin and a single dose of 2 mg PRANDIN ( after 4 days of once daily simvastatin 20 mg and three times daily PRANDIN 2 mg ) resulted in a 26 % increase in repaglinide Cmax from 23 . 6 ng / mL to 29 . 7 ng / mL .
AUC was unchanged .
Nifedipine : Co - administration of 10 mg nifedipine with a single dose of 2 mg PRANDIN ( after 4 days of three times daily nifedipine 10 mg and three times daily PRANDIN 2 mg ) resulted in unchanged AUC and Cmax values for both drugs .
Clarithromycin : Co - administration of 250 mg clarithromycin and a single dose of 0 . 25 mg PRANDIN ( after 4 days of twice daily clarithromycin 250 mg ) resulted in a 40 % and 67 % increase in repaglinide AUC and Cmax , respectively .
The increase in AUC was from 5 . 3 ng / mL * hr to 7 . 5 ng / mL * hr and the increase in Cmax was from 4 . 4 ng / mL to 7 . 3 ng / mL .
Deferasirox : Co - administration of deferasirox ( 30 mg / kg / day for 4 days ) and repaglinide ( single dose of 0 . 5 mg ) resulted in an increase in repaglinide systemic exposure ( AUC ) to 2 . 3 - fold of control and an increase in Cmax of 62 % ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
Renal Insufficiency : Single - dose and steady - state pharmacokinetics of repaglinide were compared between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal renal function ( CrCl > 80 mL / min ) , mild to moderate renal function impairment ( CrCl = 40 – 80 mL / min ) , and severe renal function impairment ( CrCl = 20 – 40 mL / min ) .
Both AUC and Cmax of repaglinide were similar in patients with normal and mild to moderately impaired renal function ( mean values 56 . 7 ng / mL * hr vs 57 . 2 ng / mL * hr and 37 . 5 ng / mL vs 37 . 7 ng / mL , respectively . )
Patients with severely reduced renal function had elevated mean AUC and Cmax values ( 98 . 0 ng / mL * hr and 50 . 7 ng / mL , respectively ) , but this study showed only a weak correlation between repaglinide levels and creatinine clearance .
Initial dose adjustment does not appear to be necessary for patients with mild to moderate renal dysfunction .
However , patients with type 2 diabetes who have severe renal function impairment should initiate PRANDIN therapy with the 0 . 5 mg dose – subsequently , patients should be carefully titrated .
Studies were not conducted in patients with creatinine clearances below 20 mL / min or patients with renal failure requiring hemodialysis .
Hepatic Insufficiency : A single - dose , open - label study was conducted in 12 healthy subjects and 12 patients with chronic liver disease ( CLD ) classified by Child - Pugh scale and caffeine clearance .
Patients with moderate to severe impairment of liver function had higher and more prolonged serum concentrations of both total and unbound repaglinide than healthy subjects ( AUChealthy : 91 . 6 ng / mL * hr ; AUCCLD patients : 368 . 9 ng / mL * hr ; Cmax , healthy : 46 . 7 ng / mL ; Cmax , CLD patients : 105 . 4 ng / mL ) .
AUC was statistically correlated with caffeine clearance .
No difference in glucose profiles was observed across patient groups .
Patients with impaired liver function may be exposed to higher concentrations of repaglinide and its associated metabolites than would patients with normal liver function receiving usual doses .
Therefore , PRANDIN should be used cautiously in patients with impaired liver function .
Longer intervals between dose adjustments should be utilized to allow full assessment of response .
Clinical Trials Monotherapy Trials A four - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled dose - response trial was conducted in 138 patients with type 2 diabetes using doses ranging from 0 . 25 to 4 mg taken with each of three meals .
PRANDIN therapy resulted in dose - proportional glucose lowering over the full dose range .
Plasma insulin levels increased after meals and reverted toward baseline before the next meal .
Most of the fasting blood glucose - lowering effect was demonstrated within 1 - 2 weeks .
In a double - blind , placebo - controlled , 3 - month dose titration study , PRANDIN or placebo doses for each patient were increased weekly from 0 . 25 mg through 0 . 5 , 1 , and 2 mg , to a maximum of 4 mg , until a fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) level < 160 mg / dL was achieved or the maximum dose reached .
The dose that achieved the targeted control or the maximum dose was continued to end of study .
FPG and 2 - hour post - prandial glucose ( PPG ) increased in patients receiving placebo and decreased in patients treated with repaglinide .
Differences between the repaglinide - and placebo - treated groups were - 61 mg / dL ( FPG ) and - 104 mg / dL ( PPG ) .
The between - group change in HbA1c , which reflects long - term glycemic control , was 1 . 7 % units .
PRANDIN vs . Placebo Treatment : Mean FPG , PPG , and HbA1c Changes from baseline after 3 months of treatment : FPG ( mg / dL ) PPG ( mg / dL ) HbA1c ( % ) PL R PL R PL R Baseline 215 . 3 220 . 2 245 . 2 261 . 7 8 . 1 8 . 5 Change from Baseline ( at last visit ) 30 . 3 - 31 . 0 [ 1 ] 56 . 5 - 47 . 6 null 1 . 1 - 0 . 6 null FPG = fasting plasma glucose PPG = post - prandial glucose PL = placebo ( N = 33 ) R = repaglinide ( N = 66 ) [ 1 ] p < 0 . 05 for between group difference Another double - blind , placebo - controlled trial was carried out in 362 patients treated for 24 weeks .
The efficacy of 1 and 4 mg preprandial doses was demonstrated by lowering of fasting blood glucose and by HbA1c at the end of the study .
HbA1c for the PRANDIN - treated groups ( 1 and 4 mg groups combined ) at the end of the study was decreased compared to the placebo - treated group in previously naïve patients and in patients previously treated with oral hypoglycemic agents by 2 . 1 % units and 1 . 7 % units , respectively .
In this fixed - dose trial , patients who were naïve to oral hypoglycemic agent therapy and patients in relatively good glycemic control at baseline ( HbA1c below 8 % ) showed greater blood glucose - lowering including a higher frequency of hypoglycemia .
Patients who were previously treated and who had baseline HbA1c ≥ 8 % reported hypoglycemia at the same rate as patients randomized to placebo .
There was no average gain in body weight when patients previously treated with oral hypoglycemic agents were switched to PRANDIN .
The average weight gain in patients treated with PRANDIN and not previously treated with sulfonylurea drugs was 3 . 3 % .
The dosing of PRANDIN relative to meal - related insulin release was studied in three trials including 58 patients .
Glycemic control was maintained during a period in which the meal and dosing pattern was varied ( 2 , 3 or 4 meals per day ; before meals x 2 , 3 , or 4 ) compared with a period of 3 regular meals and 3 doses per day ( before meals x 3 ) .
It was also shown that PRANDIN can be administered at the start of a meal , 15 minutes before , or 30 minutes before the meal with the same blood glucose - lowering effect .
PRANDIN was compared to other insulin secretagogues in 1 - year controlled trials to demonstrate comparability of efficacy and safety .
Hypoglycemia was reported in 16 % of 1228 PRANDIN patients , 20 % of 417 glyburide patients , and 19 % of 81 glipizide patients .
Of PRANDIN - treated patients with symptomatic hypoglycemia , none developed coma or required hospitalization .
Combination Trials PRANDIN was studied in combination with metformin in 83 patients not satisfactorily controlled on exercise , diet , and metformin alone .
PRANDIN dosage was titrated for 4 to 8 weeks , followed by a 3 - month maintenance period .
Combination therapy with PRANDIN and metformin resulted in significantly greater improvement in glycemic control as compared to repaglinide or metformin monotherapy .
HbA1c was improved by 1 % unit and FPG decreased by an additional 35 mg / dL .
In this study where metformin dosage was kept constant , the combination therapy of PRANDIN and metformin showed dose - sparing effects with respect to PRANDIN .
The greater efficacy response of the combination group was achieved at a lower daily repaglinide dosage than in the PRANDIN monotherapy group ( see Table ) .
PRANDIN and Metformin Therapy : Mean Changes from Baseline in Glycemic Parameters and Weight after 4 to 5 Months of Treatment [ 1 ] PRANDIN Combination Metformin N 28 27 27 Median Final Dose ( mg / day ) 12 6 ( PRANDIN ) 1500 ( metformin ) 1500 HbA1c ( % units ) - 0 . 38 - 1 . 41 [ 2 ] - 0 . 33 FPG ( mg / dL ) 8 . 8 - 39 . 2 null - 4 . 5 Weight ( kg ) 3 . 0 2 . 4 [ 3 ] - 0 . 90 [ 1 ] based on intent - to - treat analysis [ 2 ] p < 0 . 05 , for pairwise comparisons with PRANDIN and metformin .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 05 , for pairwise comparison with metformin .
A combination therapy regimen of PRANDIN and pioglitazone was compared to monotherapy with either agent alone in a 24 - week trial that enrolled 246 patients previously treated with sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy ( HbA1c > 7 . 0 % ) .
Numbers of patients treated were : PRANDIN ( N = 61 ) , pioglitazone ( N = 62 ) , combination ( N = 123 ) .
PRANDIN dosage was titrated during the first 12 weeks , followed by a 12 - week maintenance period .
Combination therapy resulted in significantly greater improvement in glycemic control as compared to monotherapy ( figure below ) .
The changes from baseline for completers in FPG ( mg / dL ) and HbA1c ( % ) , respectively were : - 39 . 8 and - 0 . 1 for PRANDIN , - 35 . 3 and - 0 . 1 for pioglitazone and - 92 . 4 and - 1 . 9 for the combination .
In this study where pioglitazone dosage was kept constant , the combination therapy group showed dose - sparing effects with respect to PRANDIN ( see figure legend ) .
The greater efficacy response of the combination group was achieved at a lower daily repaglinide dosage than in the PRANDIN monotherapy group .
Mean weight increases associated with combination , PRANDIN and pioglitazone therapy were 5 . 5 kg , 0 . 3 kg , and 2 . 0 kg respectively .
HbA1c Values from PRANDIN / Pioglitazone Combination Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] HbA1c values by study week for patients who completed study ( combination , N = 101 ; PRANDIN , N = 35 , pioglitazone , N = 26 ) .
Subjects with FPG above 270 mg / dL were withdrawn from the study .
Pioglitazone dose : fixed at 30 mg / day ; PRANDIN median final dose : 6 mg / day for combination and 10 mg / day for monotherapy .
A combination therapy regimen of PRANDIN and rosiglitazone was compared to monotherapy with either agent alone in a 24 - week trial that enrolled 252 patients previously treated with sulfonylurea or metformin ( HbA1c > 7 . 0 % ) .
Combination therapy resulted in significantly greater improvement in glycemic control as compared to monotherapy ( table below ) .
The glycemic effects of the combination therapy were dose - sparing with respect to both total daily PRANDIN dosage and total daily rosiglitazone dosage ( see table legend ) .
A greater efficacy response of the combination therapy group was achieved with half the median daily dose of PRANDIN and rosiglitazone , as compared to the respective monotherapy groups .
Mean weight change associated with combination therapy was greater than that of PRANDIN monotherapy .
Mean Changes from Baseline in Glycemic Parameters and Weight in a 24 - Week PRANDIN / Rosiglitazone Combination Study [ 1 ] PRANDIN Combination Rosiglitazone N 63 127 62 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline 9 . 3 9 . 1 9 . 0 Change by 24 weeks - 0 . 17 - 1 . 43 [ 2 ] - 0 . 56 FPG ( mg / dL ) Baseline 269 257 252 Change by 24 weeks - 54 - 94 null - 67 Change in Weight ( kg ) + 1 . 3 + 4 . 5 [ 3 ] + 3 . 3 Final median doses : rosiglitazone - 4 mg / day for combination and 8 mg / day for monotherapy ; PRANDIN - 6 mg / day for combination and 12 mg / day for monotherapy [ 1 ] based on intent - to - treat analysis [ 2 ] p - value ≤ 0 . 001 for comparison to either monotherapy [ 3 ] p - value < 0 . 001 for comparison to PRANDIN [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE PRANDIN is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PRANDIN is contraindicated in patients with : • 1 .
Diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
This condition should be treated with insulin .
• 2 .
Type 1 diabetes .
• 3 . Co - administration of gemfibrozil .
• 4 .
Known hypersensitivity to the drug or its inactive ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS General : PRANDIN is not indicated for use in combination with NPH - insulin ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS , Cardiovascular Events ) .
Macrovascular Outcomes : There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with PRANDIN or any other anti - diabetic drug .
Hypoglycemia : All oral blood glucose - lowering drugs including repaglinide are capable of producing hypoglycemia .
Proper patient selection , dosage , and instructions to the patients are important to avoid hypoglycemic episodes .
Hepatic insufficiency may cause elevated repaglinide blood levels and may diminish gluconeogenic capacity , both of which increase the risk of serious hypoglycemia .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal , pituitary , hepatic , or severe renal insufficiency may be particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose - lowering drugs .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly and in people taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Hypoglycemia is more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient , after severe or prolonged exercise , when alcohol is ingested , or when more than one glucose - lowering drug is used .
The frequency of hypoglycemia is greater in patients with type 2 diabetes who have not been previously treated with oral blood glucose - lowering drugs ( naïve ) or whose HbA1c is less than 8 % .
PRANDIN should be administered with meals to lessen the risk of hypoglycemia .
Loss of Control of Blood Glucose : When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a loss of glycemic control may occur .
At such times , it may be necessary to discontinue PRANDIN and administer insulin .
The effectiveness of any hypoglycemic drug in lowering blood glucose to a desired level decreases in many patients over a period of time , which may be due to progression of the severity of diabetes or to diminished responsiveness to the drug .
This phenomenon is known as secondary failure , to distinguish it from primary failure in which the drug is ineffective in an individual patient when the drug is first given .
Adequate adjustment of dose and adherence to diet should be assessed before classifying a patient as a secondary failure .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of PRANDIN and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose and HbA1c .
The risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development and concomitant administration of other glucose - lowering drugs should be explained to patients and responsible family members .
Primary and secondary failure should also be explained .
Patients should be instructed to take PRANDIN before meals ( 2 , 3 , or 4 times a day preprandially ) .
Doses are usually taken within 15 minutes of the meal but time may vary from immediately preceding the meal to as long as 30 minutes before the meal .
Patients who skip a meal ( or add an extra meal ) should be instructed to skip ( or add ) a dose for that meal .
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels with a goal of decreasing these levels towards the normal range .
During dose adjustment , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term glycemic control .
Postprandial glucose level testing may be clinically helpful in patients whose pre - meal blood glucose levels are satisfactory but whose overall glycemic control ( HbA1c ) is inadequate .
Drug - Drug Interactions In vitro data indicate that PRANDIN is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes 2C8 and 3A4 .
Consequently , repaglinide metabolism may be altered by drugs which influence these cytochrome P450 enzyme systems via induction and inhibition .
Caution should therefore be used in patients who are on PRANDIN and taking inhibitors and / or inducers of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 .
The effect may be very significant if both enzymes are inhibited at the same time resulting in a substantial increase in repaglinide plasma concentrations .
Drugs that are known to inhibit CYP3A4 include antifungal agents like ketoconazole , itraconazole , and antibacterial agents like erythromycin .
Drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C8 include agents like trimethoprim , gemfibrozil and montelukast .
Drugs that induce the CYP3A4 and / or 2C8 enzyme systems include rifampin , barbiturates , and carbamezapine .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section , Drug - Drug Interactions .
Repaglinide appears to be a substrate for active hepatic uptake transporter ( organic anion transporting protein OATP1B1 ) .
Drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 ( e . g . cyclosporine ) may likewise have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of repaglinide .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section , Drug - Drug Interactions .
In vivo data from a study that evaluated the co - administration of a cytochrome P450 enzyme 3A4 inhibitor , clarithromycin , with PRANDIN resulted in a clinically significant increase in repaglinide plasma levels .
In addition , an increase in repaglinide plasma levels was observed in studies that evaluated the co - administration of PRANDIN with trimethoprim and PRANDIN with deferasirox , both cytochrome P - 450 enzyme 2C8 inhibitors .
These increases in repaglinide plasma levels may necessitate a PRANDIN dose adjustment .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section , Drug - Drug Interactions .
Gemfibrozil significantly increased PRANDIN exposure .
Therefore , patients should not take PRANDIN with gemfibrozil .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section , Drug - Drug Interactions , and CONTRAINDICATIONS .
The hypoglycemic action of oral blood glucose - lowering agents may be potentiated by certain drugs including nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents and other drugs that are highly protein bound , salicylates , sulfonamides , cyclosporine , chloramphenicol , coumarins , probenecid , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , and beta adrenergic blocking agents .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving oral blood glucose - lowering agents , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving oral blood glucose - lowering agents , the patient should be observed closely for loss of glycemic control .
Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When these drugs are administered to a patient receiving oral blood glucose - lowering agents , the patient should be observed for loss of glycemic control .
When these drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving oral blood glucose - lowering agents , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies were performed for 104 weeks at doses up to and including 120 mg / kg body weight / day ( rats ) and 500 mg / kg body weight / day ( mice ) or approximately 60 and 125 times clinical exposure , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was found in mice or female rats .
In male rats , there was an increased incidence of benign adenomas of the thyroid and liver .
The relevance of these findings to humans is unclear .
The no - effect doses for these observations in male rats were 30 mg / kg body weight / day for thyroid tumors and 60 mg / kg body weight / day for liver tumors , which are over 15 and 30 times , respectively , clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis .
Repaglinide was non - genotoxic in a battery of in vivo and in vitro studies : Bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames test ) , in vitro forward cell mutation assay in V79 cells ( HGPRT ) , in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , unscheduled and replicating DNA synthesis in rat liver , and in vivo mouse and rat micronucleus tests .
Fertility of male and female rats was unaffected by repaglinide administration at doses up to 80 mg / kg body weight / day ( females ) and 300 mg / kg body weight / day ( males ) ; over 40 times clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis .
Pregnancy Pregnancy category C Teratogenic Effects : Safety in pregnant women has not been established .
Repaglinide was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at doses 40 times ( rats ) and approximately 0 . 8 times ( rabbit ) clinical exposure ( on a mg / m2 basis ) throughout pregnancy .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , PRANDIN should be used during pregnancy only if it is clearly needed .
Because recent information suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities , many experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Offspring of rat dams exposed to repaglinide at 15 times clinical exposure on a mg / m2 basis during days 17 to 22 of gestation and during lactation developed nonteratogenic skeletal deformities consisting of shortening , thickening , and bending of the humerus during the postnatal period .
This effect was not seen at doses up to 2 . 5 times clinical exposure ( on a mg / m2 basis ) on days 1 to 22 of pregnancy or at higher doses given during days 1 to 16 of pregnancy .
Relevant human exposure has not occurred to date and therefore the safety of PRANDIN administration throughout pregnancy or lactation cannot be established .
Nursing Mothers In rat reproduction studies , measurable levels of repaglinide were detected in the breast milk of the dams and lowered blood glucose levels were observed in the pups .
Cross fostering studies indicated that skeletal changes ( see Nonteratogenic Effects ) could be induced in control pups nursed by treated dams , although this occurred to a lesser degree than those pups treated in utero .
Although it is not known whether repaglinide is excreted in human milk some oral agents are known to be excreted by this route .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , and because of the effects on nursing animals , a decision should be made as to whether PRANDIN should be discontinued in nursing mothers , or if mothers should discontinue nursing .
If PRANDIN is discontinued and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use No studies have been performed in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use In repaglinide clinical studies of 24 weeks or greater duration , 415 patients were over 65 years of age .
In one - year , active - controlled trials , no differences were seen in effectiveness or adverse events between these subjects and those less than 65 other than the expected age - related increase in cardiovascular events observed for PRANDIN and comparator drugs .
There was no increase in frequency or severity of hypoglycemia in older subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals to PRANDIN therapy cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypoglycemia : See PRECAUTIONS and OVERDOSAGE sections .
PRANDIN has been administered to 2931 individuals during clinical trials .
Approximately 1500 of these individuals with type 2 diabetes have been treated for at least 3 months , 1000 for at least 6 months , and 800 for at least 1 year .
The majority of these individuals ( 1228 ) received PRANDIN in one of five 1 - year , active - controlled trials .
The comparator drugs in these 1 - year trials were oral sulfonylurea drugs ( SU ) including glyburide and glipizide .
Over one year , 13 % of PRANDIN patients were discontinued due to adverse events , as were 14 % of SU patients .
The most common adverse events leading to withdrawal were hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia , and related symptoms ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Mild or moderate hypoglycemia occurred in 16 % of PRANDIN patients , 20 % of glyburide patients , and 19 % of glipizide patients .
The table below lists common adverse events for PRANDIN patients compared to both placebo ( in trials 12 to 24 weeks duration ) and to glyburide and glipizide in one year trials .
The adverse event profile of PRANDIN was generally comparable to that for sulfonylurea drugs ( SU ) .
Commonly Reported Adverse Events ( % of Patients ) [ 1 ] EVENT PRANDIN PLACEBO PRANDIN SU N = 352 N = 108 N = 1228 N = 498 Placebo controlled studies Active controlled studies Metabolic Hypoglycemia 31 [ 2 ] 7 16 20 Respiratory URI 16 8 10 10 Sinusitis 6 2 3 4 Rhinitis 3 3 7 8 Bronchitis 2 1 6 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea 5 5 3 2 Diarrhea 5 2 4 6 Constipation 3 2 2 3 Vomiting 3 3 2 1 Dyspepsia 2 2 4 2 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 6 3 3 4 Back Pain 5 4 6 7 Other Headache 11 10 9 8 Paresthesia 3 3 2 1 Chest pain 3 1 2 1 Urinary tract infection 2 1 3 3 Tooth disorder 2 0 < 1 < 1 Allergy 2 0 1 < 1 [ 1 ] Events ≥ 2 % for the PRANDIN group in the placebo - controlled studies and ≥ events in the placebo group [ 2 ] See trial description in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Trials Cardiovascular Events In one - year trials comparing PRANDIN to sulfonylurea drugs , the incidence of angina was comparable ( 1 . 8 % ) for both treatments , with an incidence of chest pain of 1 . 8 % for PRANDIN and 1 . 0 % for sulfonylureas .
The incidence of other selected cardiovascular events ( hypertension , abnormal EKG , myocardial infarction , arrhythmias , and palpitations ) was ≤ 1 % and not different between PRANDIN and the comparator drugs .
The incidence of total serious cardiovascular adverse events , including ischemia , was higher for repaglinide ( 4 % ) than for sulfonylurea drugs ( 3 % ) in controlled comparator clinical trials .
In 1 - year controlled trials , PRANDIN treatment was not associated with excess mortality when compared to the rates observed with other oral hypoglycemic agent therapies .
Summary of Serious Cardiovascular Events ( % of total patients with events ) in Trials Comparing PRANDIN to Sulfonylureas PRANDIN SU [ 1 ] Total Exposed 1228 498 Serious CV Events 4 % 3 % Cardiac Ischemic Events 2 % 2 % Deaths due to CV Events 0 . 5 % 0 . 4 % [ 1 ] glyburide and glipizide Seven controlled clinical trials included PRANDIN combination therapy with NPH - insulin ( n = 431 ) , insulin formulations alone ( n = 388 ) or other combinations ( sulfonylurea plus NPH - insulin or PRANDIN plus metformin ) ( n = 120 ) .
There were six serious adverse events of myocardial ischemia in patients treated with PRANDIN plus NPH - insulin from two studies , and one event in patients using insulin formulations alone from another study .
Infrequent Adverse Events ( < 1 % of Patients ) Less common adverse clinical or laboratory events observed in clinical trials included elevated liver enzymes , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and anaphylactoid reactions .
Although no causal relationship with repaglinide has been established , postmarketing experience includes reports of the following rare adverse events : alopecia , hemolytic anemia , pancreatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , and severe hepatic dysfunction including jaundice and hepatitis .
Combination Therapy with Thiazolidinediones During 24 - week treatment clinical trials of PRANDIN - rosiglitazone or PRANDIN - pioglitazone combination therapy ( a total of 250 patients in combination therapy ) , hypoglycemia ( blood glucose < 50 mg / dL ) occurred in 7 % of combination therapy patients in comparison to 7 % for PRANDIN monotherapy , and 2 % for thiazolidinedione monotherapy .
Peripheral edema was reported in 12 out of 250 PRANDIN - thiazolidinedione combination therapy patients and 3 out of 124 thiazolidinedione monotherapy patients , with no cases reported in these trials for PRANDIN monotherapy .
When corrected for dropout rates of the treatment groups , the percentage of patients having events of peripheral edema per 24 weeks of treatment were 5 % for PRANDIN - thiazolidinedione combination therapy , and 4 % for thiazolidinedione monotherapy .
There were reports in 2 of 250 patients ( 0 . 8 % ) treated with PRANDIN - thiazolidinedione therapy of episodes of edema with congestive heart failure .
Both patients had a prior history of coronary artery disease and recovered after treatment with diuretic agents .
No comparable cases in the monotherapy treatment groups were reported .
Mean change in weight from baseline was + 4 . 9 kg for PRANDIN - thiazolidinedione therapy .
There were no patients on PRANDIN - thiazolidinedione combination therapy who had elevations of liver transaminases ( defined as 3 times the upper limit of normal levels ) .
OVERDOSAGE In a clinical trial , patients received increasing doses of PRANDIN up to 80 mg a day for 14 days .
There were few adverse effects other than those associated with the intended effect of lowering blood glucose .
Hypoglycemia did not occur when meals were given with these high doses .
Hypoglycemic symptoms without loss of consciousness or neurologic findings should be treated aggressively with oral glucose and adjustments in drug dosage and / or meal patterns .
Close monitoring may continue until the physician is assured that the patient is out of danger .
Patients should be closely monitored for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours , since hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
There is no evidence that repaglinide is dialyzable using hemodialysis .
Severe hypoglycemic reactions with coma , seizure , or other neurological impairment occur infrequently , but constitute medical emergencies requiring immediate hospitalization .
If hypoglycemic coma is diagnosed or suspected , the patient should be given a rapid intravenous injection of concentrated ( 50 % ) glucose solution .
This should be followed by a continuous infusion of more dilute ( 10 % ) glucose solution at a rate that will maintain the blood glucose at a level above 100 mg / dL .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of type 2 diabetes with PRANDIN .
The patient ' s blood glucose should be monitored periodically to determine the minimum effective dose for the patient ; to detect primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication ; and to detect secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose - lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Glycosylated hemoglobin levels are of value in monitoring the patient ' s longer term response to therapy .
Short - term administration of PRANDIN may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well controlled on diet .
PRANDIN doses are usually taken within 15 minutes of the meal but time may vary from immediately preceding the meal to as long as 30 minutes before the meal .
Starting Dose For patients not previously treated or whose HbA1c is < 8 % , the starting dose should be 0 . 5 mg with each meal .
For patients previously treated with blood glucose - lowering drugs and whose HbA1c is ≥ 8 % , the initial dose is 1 or 2 mg with each meal preprandially ( see previous paragraph ) .
Dose Adjustment Dosing adjustments should be determined by blood glucose response , usually fasting blood glucose .
Postprandial glucose levels testing may be clinically helpful in patients whose pre - meal blood glucose levels are satisfactory but whose overall glycemic control ( HbA1c ) is inadequate .
The preprandial dose should be doubled up to 4 mg with each meal until satisfactory blood glucose response is achieved .
At least one week should elapse to assess response after each dose adjustment .
The recommended dose range is 0 . 5 mg to 4 mg taken with meals .
PRANDIN may be dosed preprandially 2 , 3 , or 4 times a day in response to changes in the patient ’ s meal pattern .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 16 mg .
Patient Management Long - term efficacy should be monitored by measurement of HbA1c levels approximately every 3 months .
Failure to follow an appropriate dosage regimen may precipitate hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia .
Patients who do not adhere to their prescribed dietary and drug regimen are more prone to exhibit unsatisfactory response to therapy including hypoglycemia .
When hypoglycemia occurs in patients taking a combination of PRANDIN and a thiazolidinedione or PRANDIN and metformin , the dose of PRANDIN should be reduced .
Patients Receiving Other Oral Hypoglycemic Agents When PRANDIN is used to replace therapy with other oral hypoglycemic agents , PRANDIN may be started on the day after the final dose is given .
Patients should then be observed carefully for hypoglycemia due to potential overlapping of drug effects .
When transferred from longer half - life sulfonylurea agents ( e . g . , chlorpropamide ) to repaglinide , close monitoring may be indicated for up to one week or longer .
Combination Therapy If PRANDIN monotherapy does not result in adequate glycemic control , metformin or a thiazolidinedione may be added .
If metformin or thiazolidinedione monotherapy does not provide adequate control , PRANDIN may be added .
The starting dose and dose adjustments for PRANDIN combination therapy is the same as for PRANDIN monotherapy .
The dose of each drug should be carefully adjusted to determine the minimal dose required to achieve the desired pharmacologic effect .
Failure to do so could result in an increase in the incidence of hypoglycemic episodes .
Appropriate monitoring of FPG and HbA1c measurements should be used to ensure that the patient is not subjected to excessive drug exposure or increased probability of secondary drug failure .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 68151 - 3566 NDC : 68151 - 3566 - 8 1 TABLET in a PACKAGE Repaglinide 1 mg tabs [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
