1 . 1 Hypertension Lisinopril is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Lisinopril may be administered alone or with other antihypertensive agents [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Heart Failure Lisinopril is indicated to reduce signs and symptoms of systolic heart failure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction Lisinopril is indicated for the reduction of mortality in treatment of hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction .
Patients should receive , as appropriate , the standard recommended treatments such as thrombolytics , aspirin and beta - blockers [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 1 Hypertension Initial Therapy in adults : The recommended initial dose is 10 mg once a day .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response .
The usual dosage range is 20 to 40 mg per day administered in a single daily dose .
Doses up to 80 mg have been used but do not appear to give greater effect .
Use with diuretics in adults If blood pressure is not controlled with Lisinopril alone , a low dose of a diuretic may be added ( eg , hydrochlorothiazide , 12 . 5 mg ) .
After the addition of a diuretic , it may be possible to reduce the dose of Lisinopril .
The recommended starting dose in adult patients with hypertension taking diuretics is 5 mg once per day .
Pediatric Patients 6 years of age and older with hypertension For pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , the recommended starting dose is 0 . 07 mg per kg once daily ( up to 5 mg total ) .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response up to a maximum of 0 . 61 mg per kg ( up to 40 mg ) once daily .
Doses above 0 . 61 mg per kg ( or in excess of 40 mg ) have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lisinopril is not recommended in pediatric patients < 6 years or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose for Lisinopril , when used with diuretics and ( usually ) digitalis as adjunctive therapy for systolic heart failure , is 5 mg once daily .
The recommended starting dose in these patients with hyponatremia ( serum sodium < 130 mEq / L ) is 2 . 5 mg once daily .
Increase as tolerated to a maximum of 40 mg once daily .
Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to help minimize hypovolemia , which may contribute to hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of Lisinopril does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug , following effective management of the hypotension .
2 . 3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction In hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction , give Lisinopril 5 mg orally , followed by 5 mg after 24 hours , 10 mg after 48 hours and then 10 mg once daily .
Dosing should continue for at least six weeks .
Initiate therapy with 2 . 5 mg in patients with a low systolic blood pressure ( ≤ 120 mmHg and > 100 mmHg ) during the first 3 days after the infarct [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
If hypotension occurs ( systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg ) a daily maintenance dose of 5 mg may be given with temporary reductions to 2 . 5 mg if needed .
If prolonged hypotension occurs ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) Lisinopril should be withdrawn .
2 . 4 Dose in Patients with Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of Lisinopril is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min .
In patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 10 mL / min and ≤ 30 mL / min , reduce the initial dose of Lisinopril to half of the usual recommended dose i . e . , hypertension , 5 mg ; systolic heart failure , 2 . 5 mg and acute MI , 2 . 5 mg .
Up titrate as tolerated to a maximum of 40 mg daily .
For patients on hemodialysis or creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min , the recommended initial dose is 2 . 5 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 mg are white to off - white , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 144 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
5 mg are yellow , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 145 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
10 mg are light pink , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 146 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
20 mg are dark pink , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 147 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
30 mg are red , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 148 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
40 mg are yellow , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 149 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Lisinopril is contraindicated in patients with : a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor hereditary or idiopathic angioedema Do not co - administer aliskiren with Lisinopril in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Lisinopril as soon as possible [ see Use in specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Angioedema and Anaphylactoid Reactions Angioedema Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx , including some fatal reactions , have occurred in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including Lisinopril , at any time during treatment .
Patients with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction , especially those with a history of airway surgery .
Lisinopril should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms of angioedema has occurred .
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has occurred in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
In some cases , the angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Dialysis Sudden and potentially life threatening anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in some patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
In such patients , dialysis must be stopped immediately , and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated .
Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with Lisinopril .
Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( eg , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , post - myocardial infarction or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on Lisinopril .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on Lisinopril [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypotension Lisinopril can cause symptomatic hypotension , sometimes complicated by oliguria , progressive azotemia , acute renal failure or death .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension include those with the following conditions or characteristics : heart failure with systolic blood pressure below 100 mmHg , ischemic heart disease , cerebrovascular disease , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of any etiology .
In these patients , Lisinopril should be started under very close medical supervision and such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of Lisinopril and / or diuretic is increased .
Avoid use of Lisinopril in patients who are hemodynamically unstable after acute MI .
Symptomatic hypotension is also possible in patients with severe aortic stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , Lisinopril may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
5 . 5 Hyperkalemia Serum potassium should be monitored periodically in patients receiving Lisinopril .
Drugs that inhibit the renin angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hepatic Failure ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and sometimes death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical treatment .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Hypertension In clinical trials in patients with hypertension treated with Lisinopril , 5 . 7 % of patients on Lisinopril discontinued with adverse reactions .
The following adverse reactions ( events 2 % greater on Lisinopril than on placebo ) were observed with Lisinopril alone : headache ( by 3 . 8 % ) , dizziness ( by 3 . 5 % ) , cough ( by 2 . 5 % ) .
Heart Failure In patients with systolic heart failure treated with Lisinopril for up to four years , 11 % discontinued therapy with adverse reactions .
In controlled studies in patients with heart failure , therapy was discontinued in 8 . 1 % of patients treated with Lisinopril for 12 weeks , compared to 7 . 7 % of patients treated with placebo for 12 weeks .
The following adverse reactions ( events 2 % greater on Lisinopril than on placebo ) were observed with Lisinopril : hypotension ( by 3 . 8 % ) , chest pain ( by 2 . 1 % ) .
In the two - dose ATLAS trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] in heart failure patients , withdrawals due to adverse reactions were not different between the low and high groups , either in total number of discontinuation ( 17 - 18 % ) or in rare specific reactions ( < 1 % ) .
The following adverse reactions , mostly related to ACE inhibition , were reported more commonly in the high dose group : Table 1 Dose - related Adverse Drug Reactions : ATLAS trial High Dose ( n = 1568 ) Low Dose ( n = 1596 ) Dizziness 19 % 12 % Hypotension 11 % 7 % Creatinine increased 10 % 7 % Hyperkalemia 6 % 4 % Syncope 7 % 5 % Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients treated with Lisinopril had a higher incidence of hypotension ( by 5 . 3 % ) and renal dysfunction ( by 1 . 3 % ) compared with patients not taking Lisinopril .
Other clinical adverse reactions occurring in 1 % or higher of patients with hypertension or heart failure treated with Lisinopril in controlled clinical trials and do not appear in other sections of labeling are listed below : Body as a whole : Fatigue , asthenia , orthostatic effects .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , constipation , flatulence , dry mouth , diarrhea .
Hematologic : Rare cases of bone marrow depression , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia / neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
Endocrine : Diabetes mellitus , inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion .
Metabolic : Gout .
Skin : Urticaria , alopecia , photosensitivity , erythema , flushing , diaphoresis , cutaneous pseudolymphoma , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and pruritus .
Special Senses : Visual loss , diplopia , blurred vision , tinnitus , photophobia , taste disturbances , olfactory disturbance .
Urogenital : Impotence .
Miscellaneous : A symptom complex has been reported which may include a positive ANA , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , arthralgia / arthritis , myalgia , fever , vasculitis , eosinophilia , leukocytosis , paresthesia and vertigo .
Rash , photosensitivity or other dermatological manifestations may occur alone or in combination with these symptoms .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Potassium : In clinical trials hyperkalemia ( serum potassium greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L ) occurred in 2 . 2 % and 4 . 8 % of Lisinopril - treated patients with hypertension and heart failure , respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , reversible upon discontinuation of therapy , were observed in about 2 % of patients with hypertension treated with Lisinopril alone .
Increases were more common in patients receiving concomitant diuretics and in patients with renal artery stenosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Reversible minor increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were observed in 11 . 6 % of patients with heart failure on concomitant diuretic therapy .
Frequently , these abnormalities resolved when the dosage of the diuretic was decreased .
Patients with acute myocardial infarction in the GISSI - 3 trial treated with Lisinopril had a higher ( 2 . 4 % versus 1 . 1 % in placebo ) incidence of renal dysfunction in - hospital and at six weeks ( increasing creatinine concentration to over 3 mg / dL or a doubling or more of the baseline serum creatinine concentration ) .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ( mean decreases of approximately 0 . 4 g % and 1 . 3 vol % , respectively ) occurred frequently in patients treated with Lisinopril but were rarely of clinical importance in patients without some other cause of anemia .
In clinical trials , less than 0 . 1 % of patients discontinued therapy due to anemia .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Lisinopril that are not included in other sections of labeling .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Other reactions include : Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , cases of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients on oral antidiabetic agents or insulin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] Nervous system and psychiatric disorders Mood alterations ( including depressive symptoms ) , mental confusion , hallucinations Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Psoriasis 7 . 1 Diuretics Initiation of Lisinopril in patients on diuretics may result in excessive reduction of blood pressure .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with Lisinopril can be minimized by either decreasing or discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with Lisinopril .
If this is not possible , reduce the starting dose of Lisinopril [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide - type diuretics .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Therefore , if concomitant use of such agents is indicated , monitor the patient ’ s serum potassium frequently .
7 . 2 Antidiabetics Concomitant administration of Lisinopril and antidiabetic medicines ( insulins , oral hypoglycemic agents ) may cause an increased blood - glucose - lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia .
7 . 3 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
7 . 4 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes , elevated urinary - albumin - to - creatinine ratio , and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate ( GFR 30 to 89 . 9 ml / min ) , randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2 . 2 years .
Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR , end state renal disease , or death , but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on Lisinopril and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with Lisinopril in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with Lisinopril in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
7 . 5 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs , which cause elimination of sodium , including ACE inhibitors .
Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concurrent use .
7 . 6 Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including Lisinopril .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Lisinopril as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue Lisinopril , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to Lisinopril for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ACE inhibitors , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue Lisinopril , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Antihypertensive effects and safety of Lisinopril have been established in pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
No relevant differences between the adverse reaction profile for pediatric patients and adult patients were identified .
Safety and effectiveness of Lisinopril have not been established in pediatric patients under the age 6 or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to Lisinopril If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No dosage adjustment with Lisinopril is necessary in elderly patients .
In a clinical study of Lisinopril in patients with myocardial infarctions ( GISSI - 3 Trial ) 4 , 413 ( 47 % ) were 65 and over , while 1 , 656 ( 18 % ) were 75 and over .
In this study , 4 . 8 % of patients aged 75 years and older discontinued Lisinopril treatment because of renal dysfunction vs . 1 . 3 % of patients younger than 75 years .
No other differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Race ACE inhibitors , including Lisinopril , have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non blacks .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Dose adjustment of Lisinopril is required in patients undergoing hemodialysis or whose creatinine clearance is ≤ 30 mL / min .
No dose adjustment of Lisinopril is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Following a single oral dose of 20 g / kg no lethality occurred in rats , and death occurred in one of 20 mice receiving the same dose .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of normal saline solution .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lisinopril is an oral long - acting angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor .
Lisinopril , a synthetic peptide derivative , is chemically described as ( S ) - 1 - [ N2 - ( 1 - carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ) - L - lysyl ] - L - proline dihydrate .
Its empirical formula is C21H31N3O5 • 2H2O and its structural formula is : [ Chemical Structure ] Lisinopril is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 441 . 53 .
It is soluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Lisinopril is supplied as 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg and 40 mg tablets for oral administration .
Inactive Ingredients : 2 . 5 mg tablets – Mannitol , dibasic calcium phosphate , pregelatinized starch * , corn starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate and magnesium stearate .
5 mg tablets – Mannitol , dibasic calcium phosphate , pregelatinized starch * , corn starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate and yellow ferric oxide .
10 mg tablets – Mannitol , dibasic calcium phosphate , pregelatinized starch * , corn starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate and red ferric oxide .
20 and 30 mg tablets - Mannitol , dibasic calcium phosphate , pregelatinized starch * , corn starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate and red ferric oxide .
40 mg tablets - Mannitol , dibasic calcium phosphate , pregelatinized starch * , corn starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate and yellow ferric oxide .
* : Pregelatinized starch is a physically modified corn ( maize ) starch .
12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lisinopril inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
The beneficial effects of lisinopril in hypertension and heart failure appear to result primarily from suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated with Lisinopril alone for up to 24 weeks , the mean increase in serum potassium was approximately 0 . 1 mEq / L ; however , approximately 15 % of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately 6 % had a decrease greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L .
In the same study , patients treated with Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 24 weeks had a mean decrease in serum potassium of 0 . 1 mEq / L ; approximately 4 % of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately 12 % had a decrease greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of Lisinopril remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which Lisinopril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , Lisinopril is antihypertensive even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although Lisinopril was antihypertensive in all races studied , Black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to monotherapy than non Black patients .
Concomitant administration of Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide further reduced blood pressure in Black and non - Black patients and any racial differences in blood pressure response were no longer evident .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hypertension Adult Patients : Administration of Lisinopril to patients with hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is usually not observed although it can occur and should be anticipated in volume and / or salt - depleted patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
When given together with thiazide - type diuretics , the blood pressure lowering effects of the two drugs are approximately additive .
In most patients studied , onset of antihypertensive activity was seen at one hour after oral administration of an individual dose of Lisinopril , with peak reduction of blood pressure achieved by 6 hours .
Although an antihypertensive effect was observed 24 hours after dosing with recommended single daily doses , the effect was more consistent and the mean effect was considerably larger in some studies with doses of 20 mg or more than with lower doses ; however , at all doses studied , the mean antihypertensive effect was substantially smaller 24 hours after dosing than it was 6 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effects of Lisinopril are maintained during long - term therapy .
Abrupt withdrawal of Lisinopril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure , or a significant increase in blood pressure compared to pretreatment levels .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents In a study in 36 patients with mild to moderate hypertension where the antihypertensive effects of Lisinopril alone were compared to Lisinopril given concomitantly with indomethacin , the use of indomethacin was associated with a reduced effect , although the difference between the two regimens was not significant .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Adult Patients : Following oral administration of Lisinopril , peak serum concentrations of lisinopril occur within about 7 hours , although there was a trend to a small delay in time taken to reach peak serum concentrations in acute myocardial infarction patients .
Food does not alter the bioavailability of Lisinopril .
Declining serum concentrations exhibit a prolonged terminal phase , which does not contribute to drug accumulation .
This terminal phase probably represents saturable binding to ACE and is not proportional to dose .
Upon multiple dosing , lisinopril exhibits an effective half - life of 12 hours .
Lisinopril does not appear to be bound to other serum proteins .
Lisinopril does not undergo metabolism and is excreted unchanged entirely in the urine .
Based on urinary recovery , the mean extent of absorption of lisinopril is approximately 25 % , with large intersubject variability ( 6 - 60 % ) at all doses tested ( 5 - 80 mg ) .
The absolute bioavailability of lisinopril is reduced to 16 % in patients with stable NYHA Class II - IV congestive heart failure , and the volume of distribution appears to be slightly smaller than that in normal subjects .
The oral bioavailability of lisinopril in patients with acute myocardial infarction is similar to that in healthy volunteers .
Impaired renal function decreases elimination of lisinopril , which is excreted principally through the kidneys , but this decrease becomes clinically important only when the glomerular filtration rate is below 30 mL / min .
Above this glomerular filtration rate , the elimination half - life is little changed .
With greater impairment , however , peak and trough lisinopril levels increase , time to peak concentration increases and time to attain steady state is prolonged [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis .
Pediatric Patients : The pharmacokinetics of lisinopril were studied in 29 pediatric hypertensive patients between 6 years and 16 years with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
After doses of 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg per kg , steady state peak plasma concentrations of lisinopril occurred within 6 hours and the extent of absorption based on urinary recovery was about 28 % .
These values are similar to those obtained previously in adults .
The typical value of lisinopril oral clearance ( systemic clearance / absolute bioavailability ) in a child weighing 30 kg is 10 L / h , which increases in proportion to renal function .
13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect when lisinopril was administered for 105 weeks to male and female rats at doses up to 90 mg per kg per day ( about 56 or 9 times * the maximum recommended daily human dose , based on body weight and body surface area , respectively ) .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when lisinopril was administered for 92 weeks to ( male and female ) mice at doses up to 135 mg per kg per day ( about 84 times * the maximum recommended daily human dose ) .
This dose was 6 . 8 times the maximum human dose based on body surface area in mice .
Lisinopril was not mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test with or without metabolic activation .
It was also negative in a forward mutation assay using Chinese hamster lung cells .
Lisinopril did not produce single strand DNA breaks in an in vitro alkaline elution rat hepatocyte assay .
In addition , lisinopril did not produce increases in chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro test in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo study in mouse bone marrow .
There were no adverse effects on reproductive performance in male and female rats treated with up to 300 mg per kg per day of lisinopril .
This dose is 188 times and 30 times the maximum human dose when based on mg / kg and mg / m2 , respectively .
Studies in rats indicate that lisinopril crosses the blood brain barrier poorly .
Multiple doses of lisinopril in rats do not result in accumulation in any tissues .
Milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
By whole body autoradiography , radioactivity was found in the placenta following administration of labeled drug to pregnant rats , but none was found in the fetuses .
* Calculations assume a human weight of 50 kg and human body surface area of 1 . 62 m2 2 . 5 mg Tablets : white to off - white , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 144 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 tablets Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 500 tablets 5 mg Tablets : yellow , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 145 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 1000 tablets 10 mg Tablets : light pink , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 146 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 tablets Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 1000 tablets 20 mg Tablets : dark pink , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 147 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 tablets Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 1000 tablets 30 mg Tablets : red , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 148 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 tablets Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 500 tablets Bottles of 1000 tablets 40 mg Tablets : yellow , capsule - shaped tablets , imprinted with ‘ H 149 ’ on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 1000 tablets 14 . 1 Hypertension Two dose - response studies utilizing a once - daily regimen were conducted in 438 mild to moderate hypertensive patients not on a diuretic .
Blood pressure was measured 24 hours after dosing .
An antihypertensive effect of Lisinopril was seen with 5 mg of Lisinopril in some patients .
However , in both studies blood pressure reduction occurred sooner and was greater in patients treated with 10 , 20 or 80 mg of Lisinopril than patients treated with 5 mg of Lisinopril .
In controlled clinical studies of patients with mild to moderate hypertension , patients were treated with Lisinopril 20 - 80 mg daily , hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 - 50 mg daily or atenolol 50 - 200 mg daily ; and in other studies of patients with moderate to severe hypertension , patients were treated with Lisinopril 20 - 80 mg daily or metoprolol 100 - 200 mg daily .
Lisinopril demonstrated superior reductions of systolic and diastolic compared to hydrochlorothiazide in a population that was 75 % Caucasian .
Lisinopril was approximately equivalent to atenolol and metoprolol in reducing diastolic blood pressure , and had somewhat greater effects on systolic blood pressure .
Lisinopril had similar blood pressure reductions and adverse effects in younger and older ( > 65 years ) patients .
It was less effective in reducing blood pressure in Blacks than in Caucasians .
In hemodynamic studies of Lisinopril in patients with essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance with little or no change in cardiac output and in heart rate .
In a study in nine hypertensive patients , following administration of Lisinopril , there was an increase in mean renal blood flow that was not significant .
Data from several small studies are inconsistent with respect to the effect of lisinopril on glomerular filtration rate in hypertensive patients with normal renal function , but suggest that changes , if any , are not large .
In patients with renovascular hypertension Lisinopril has been shown to be well tolerated and effective in reducing blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients : In a clinical study involving 115 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age , patients who weighed < 50 kg received either 0 . 625 , 2 . 5 or 20 mg of Lisinopril once daily and patients who weighed ≥ 50 kg received either 1 . 25 , 5 , or 40 mg of Lisinopril once daily .
At the end of 2 weeks , Lisinopril lowered trough blood pressure in a dose - dependent manner with antihypertensive efficacy demonstrated at doses > 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 02 mg per kg ) .
This effect was confirmed in a randomized withdrawal phase , where the diastolic pressure rose by about 9 mmHg more in patients randomized to placebo than compared to patients who remained on the middle and high doses of lisinopril .
The dose - dependent antihypertensive effect of Lisinopril was consistent across several demographic subgroups : age , Tanner stage , gender , and race .
In this study , lisinopril was generally well - tolerated .
In the above pediatric studies , Lisinopril was given either as tablets or in a suspension for those children and infants who were unable to swallow tablets or who required a lower dose than is available in tablet form [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
14 . 2 Heart Failure In two placebo controlled , 12 - week clinical studies compared the addition of Lisinopril up to 20 mg daily to digitalis and diuretics alone .
The combination of Lisinopril , digitalis and diuretics reduced the following signs and symptoms of heart failure : edema , rales , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and jugular venous distention .
In one of the studies , the combination of Lisinopril , digitalis and diuretics reduced orthopnea , presence of third heart sound and the number of patients classified as NYHA Class III and IV ; and improved exercise tolerance .
A large ( over 3000 patients ) survival study , the ATLAS Trial , comparing 2 . 5 and 35 mg of lisinopril in patients with systolic heart failure , showed that the higher dose of lisinopril had outcomes at least as favorable as the lower dose .
During baseline - controlled clinical trials , in patients with systolic heart failure receiving digitalis and diuretics , single doses of Lisinopril resulted in decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , systemic vascular resistance and blood pressure accompanied by an increase in cardiac output and no change in heart rate .
14 . 3 Acute Myocardial Infarction The Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvienza nell ’ Infarto Miocardico ( GISSI - 3 ) study was a multicenter , controlled , randomized , unblinded clinical trial conducted in 19 , 394 patients with acute myocardial infarction ( MI ) admitted to a coronary care unit .
It was designed to examine the effects of short - term ( 6 week ) treatment with lisinopril , nitrates , their combination , or no therapy on short - term ( 6 week ) mortality and on long - term death and markedly impaired cardiac function .
Hemodynamically - stable patients presenting within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms were randomized , in a 2 x 2 factorial design , to six weeks of either 1 ) Lisinopril alone ( n = 4841 ) , 2 ) nitrates alone ( n = 4869 ) , 3 ) Lisinopril plus nitrates ( n = 4841 ) , or 4 ) open control ( n = 4843 ) .
All patients received routine therapies , including thrombolytics ( 72 % ) , aspirin ( 84 % ) , and a beta blocker ( 31 % ) , as appropriate , normally utilized in acute myocardial infarction ( MI ) patients .
The protocol excluded patients with hypotension ( systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg ) , severe heart failure , cardiogenic shock , and renal dysfunction ( serum creatinine > 2 mg per dL and / or proteinuria > 500 mg per 24 h ) .
Patients randomized to Lisinopril received 5 mg within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms , 5 mg after 24 hours , and then 10 mg daily thereafter .
Patients with systolic blood pressure less than 120 mmHg at baseline received 2 . 5 mg of Lisinopril .
If hypotension occurred , the Lisinopril dose was reduced or if severe hypotension occurred Lisinopril was stopped [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
The primary outcomes of the trial were the overall mortality at 6 weeks and a combined end point at 6 months after the myocardial infarction , consisting of the number of patients who died , had late ( day 4 ) clinical congestive heart failure , or had extensive left ventricular damage defined as ejection fraction ≤ 35 % or an akinetic - dyskinetic [ A - D ] score ≥ 45 % .
Patients receiving Lisinopril ( n = 9646 ) , alone or with nitrates , had an 11 % lower risk of death ( p = 0 . 04 ) compared to patients who did not receive Lisinopril ( n = 9672 ) ( 6 . 4 % vs . 7 . 2 % , respectively ) at six weeks .
Although patients randomized to receive Lisinopril for up to six weeks also fared numerically better on the combined end point at 6 months , the open nature of the assessment of heart failure , substantial loss to follow - up echocardiography , and substantial excess use of Lisinopril between 6 weeks and 6 months in the group randomized to 6 weeks of lisinopril , preclude any conclusion about this end point .
Patients with acute myocardial infarction , treated with Lisinopril , had a higher ( 9 . 0 % versus 3 . 7 % ) incidence of persistent hypotension ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) and renal dysfunction ( 2 . 4 % versus 1 . 1 % ) in - hospital and at six weeks ( increasing creatinine concentration to over 3 mg per dL or a doubling or more of the baseline serum creatinine concentration ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Storage Store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Protect from light , moisture and freezing .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP with a child - resistant closure NOTE : This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Pregnancy : Tell female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to Lisinopril during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Tell patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema may occur at any time during treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including Lisinopril .
Tell patients to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to take no more drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Tell patients to report light - headedness especially during the first few days of therapy .
If actual syncope occurs , tell the patient to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Tell patients that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; advise patients accordingly .
Hyperkalemia : Tell patients not to use salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Hypoglycemia : Tell diabetic patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents or insulin starting an ACE inhibitor to monitor for hypoglycaemia closely , especially during the first month of combined use [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Leukopenia / Neutropenia : Tell patients to report promptly any indication of infection ( eg , sore throat , fever ) , which may be a sign of leukopenia / neutropenia .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA Revision : 01 / 2015 17008 - 02 Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Pink , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 860 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side are supplied in bottles of 100 and 500 .
Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Light blue , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 861 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side are supplied in bottles of 100 and 500 .
Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 20 mg / 25 mg : Pink , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 862 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side are supplied in bottles of 100 and 500 .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from excessive light and humidity .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container according to USP / NF .
Brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Revised : October 2017 Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg , while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12 . 5 mg to 50 mg per day .
In clinical trials of lisinopril / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using lisinopril doses of 10 mg to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6 . 25 mg to 50 mg , the antihypertensive response rates generally increased with increasing dose of either component .
The side effects ( see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent side effects , but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics .
To minimize dose - independent side effects , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 10 - 12 . 5 or Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 12 . 5 .
Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response .
The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 - 3 weeks have elapsed .
Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide , but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen , may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 10 - 12 . 5 .
Dosage higher than lisinopril 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg should not be used .
Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components .
Use in Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient ' s creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg / dL or 265 µmol / L ) .
In patients with more severe renal impairment , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is not recommended ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets have been evaluated for safety in 930 patients , including 100 patients treated for 50 weeks or more .
In clinical trials with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination drug have been observed .
Adverse experiences that have occurred have been limited to those that have been previously reported with lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide .
The most frequent clinical adverse experiences in controlled trials ( including open label extensions ) with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide were : dizziness ( 7 . 5 percent ) , headache ( 5 . 2 percent ) , cough ( 3 . 9 percent ) , fatigue ( 3 . 7 percent ) and orthostatic effects ( 3 . 2 percent ) , all of which were more common than in placebo - treated patients .
Generally , adverse experiences were mild and transient in nature ; but see WARNINGS regarding angioedema and excessive hypotension or syncope .
Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse effects was required in 4 . 4 percent of patients , principally because of dizziness , cough , fatigue and muscle cramps .
Adverse experiences occurring in greater than one percent of patients treated with lisinopril plus hydrochlorothiazide in controlled clinical trials are shown below .
Percent of Patients in Controlled Studies Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 930 ) Incidence ( discontinuation ) Placebo ( n = 207 ) Incidence Dizziness 7 . 5 ( 0 . 8 ) 1 . 9 Headache 5 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 . 9 Cough 3 . 9 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 0 Fatigue 3 . 7 ( 0 . 4 ) 1 . 0 Orthostatic Effects 3 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 1 . 0 Diarrhea 2 . 5 ( 0 . 2 ) 2 . 4 Nausea 2 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 2 . 4 Upper Respiratory Infection 2 . 2 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 . 0 Muscle Cramps 2 . 0 ( 0 . 4 ) 0 . 5 Asthenia 1 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) 1 . 0 Paresthesia 1 . 5 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 0 Hypotension 1 . 4 ( 0 . 3 ) 0 . 5 Vomiting 1 . 4 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 5 Dyspepsia 1 . 3 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 . 0 Rash 1 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 5 Impotence 1 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 0 . 0 Clinical adverse experiences occurring in 0 . 3 to 1 . 0 percent of patients in controlled trials included : Body as a Whole : Chest pain , abdominal pain , syncope , chest discomfort , fever , trauma , virus infection .
Cardiovascular : Palpitation , orthostatic hypotension .
Digestive : Gastrointestinal cramps , dry mouth , constipation , heartburn .
Musculoskeletal : Back pain , shoulder pain , knee pain , back strain , myalgia , foot pain .
Nervous / Psychiatric : Decreased libido , vertigo , depression , somnolence .
Respiratory : Common cold , nasal congestion , influenza , bronchitis , pharyngeal pain , dyspnea , pulmonary congestion , chronic sinusitis , allergic rhinitis , pharyngeal discomfort .
Skin : Flushing , pruritus , skin inflammation , diaphoresis .
Special Senses : Blurred vision , tinnitus , otalgia .
Urogenital : Urinary tract infection .
Angioedema : Angioedema has been reported in patients receiving PRINZIDE , with an incidence higher in Black than in non - Black patients .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema may be fatal .
If angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx occurs , treatment with PRINZIDE should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
In rare cases , intestinal angioedema has been reported with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors including lisinopril .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hypotension : In clinical trials , adverse effects relating to hypotension occurred as follows : hypotension ( 1 . 4 percent ) , orthostatic hypotension ( 0 . 5 percent ) , other orthostatic effects ( 3 . 2 percent ) .
In addition syncope occurred in 0 . 8 percent of patients .
( See WARNINGS . )
Cough : See PRECAUTIONS , Cough .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Electrolytes : See PRECAUTIONS .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor reversible increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were observed in patients with essential hypertension treated with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
More marked increases have also been reported and were more likely to occur in patients with renal artery stenosis .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Serum Uric Acid , Glucose , Magnesium , Cholesterol , Triglycerides and Calcium : See PRECAUTIONS .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ( mean decreases of approximately 0 . 5 g percent and 1 . 5 vol percent , respectively ) occurred frequently in hypertensive patients treated with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets but were rarely of clinical importance unless another cause of anemia coexisted .
In clinical trials , 0 . 4 percent of patients discontinued therapy due to anemia .
Liver Function Tests : Rarely , elevations of liver enzymes and / or serum bilirubin have occurred ( see WARNINGS , Hepatic Failure ) .
Other adverse reactions that have been reported with the individual components are listed below : Lisinopril — In clinical trials adverse reactions which occurred with lisinopril were also seen with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
In addition , and since lisinopril has been marketed , the following adverse reactions have been reported with lisinopril and should be considered potential adverse reactions for Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets : Body as a Whole : Anaphylactoid reactions ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions ) , malaise , edema , facial edema , pain , pelvic pain , flank pain , chills ; Cardiovascular : Cardiac arrest , myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident , possibly secondary to excessive hypotension in high - risk patients ( see WARNINGS , Hypotension ) , pulmonary embolism and infarction , worsening of heart failure , arrhythmias ( including tachycardia , ventricular tachycardia , atrial tachycardia , atrial fibrillation , bradycardia , and premature ventricular contractions ) , angina pectoris , transient ischemic attacks , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , decreased blood pressure , peripheral edema , vasculitis ; Digestive : Pancreatitis , hepatitis ( hepatocellular or cholestatic jaundice ) ( see WARNINGS , Hepatic Failure ) , gastritis , anorexia , flatulence , increased salivation ; Endocrine : Diabetes mellitus , syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( SIADH ) ; Hematologic : Rare cases of neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and bone marrow depression have been reported .
Hemolytic anemia has been reported ; a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded ; Metabolic : Gout , weight loss , dehydration , fluid overload , weight gain ; Musculoskeletal : Arthritis , arthralgia , neck pain , hip pain , joint pain , leg pain , arm pain , lumbago ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Ataxia , memory impairment , tremor , insomnia , stroke , nervousness , confusion , peripheral neuropathy ( e . g . , paresthesia , dysesthesia ) , spasm , hypersomnia , irritability , mood alterations ( including depressive symptoms ) ; hallucinations ; Respiratory : Malignant lung neoplasms , hemoptysis , pulmonary edema , pulmonary infiltrates , eosinophilic pneumonitis , bronchospasm , asthma , pleural effusion , pneumonia , wheezing , orthopnea , painful respiration , epistaxis , laryngitis , sinusitis , pharyngitis , rhinitis , rhinorrhea , chest sound abnormalities ; Skin : Urticaria , alopecia , herpes zoster , photosensitivity , skin lesions , skin infections , pemphigus , erythema , psoriasis .
Other severe skin reactions ( including toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and cutaneous pseudolymphoma ) have been reported rarely ; causal relationship has not been established ; Special Senses : Visual loss , diplopia , photophobia , taste disturbances , olfactory disturbances ; Urogenital : Acute renal failure , oliguria , anuria , uremia , progressive azotemia , renal dysfunction ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , pyelonephritis , dysuria , breast pain .
Miscellaneous : A symptom complex has been reported which may include a positive ANA , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , arthralgia / arthritis , myalgia , fever , vasculitis , leukocytosis , eosinophilia , photosensitivity , rash , and other dermatological manifestations .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality : See WARNINGS , Pregnancy , Lisinopril , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Hydrochlorothiazide — Body as a Whole : Weakness ; Digestive : Anorexia , gastric irritation , cramping , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) ( see WARNINGS , Hepatic Failure ) , pancreatitis , sialadenitis , constipation ; Hematologic : Leukopenia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , aplastic anemia , hemolyticanemia ; Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Restlessness ; Renal : Renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ( see WARNINGS ) ; Skin : Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis , alopecia ; Special Senses : Xanthopsia ; Hypersensitivity : Purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / for voluntary reporting adverse reactions .
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
Therapy with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets should be discontinued and the patient observed closely .
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and / or gastric lavage , and correction of dehydration , electrolyte imbalance and hypotension by established procedures .
Lisinopril Following a single oral dose of 20 g / kg , no lethality occurred in rats and death occurred in one of 20 mice receiving the same dose .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of normal saline solution .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis .
( See WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure . )
Hydrochlorothiazide Oral administration of a single oral dose of 10 g / kg to mice and rats was not lethal .
The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
General Lisinopril Aortic Stenosis / Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy : As with all vasodilators , lisinopril should be given with caution to patients with obstruction in the outflow tract of the left ventricle .
Impaired Renal Function : As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death .
In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine may occur .
Experience with another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor suggests that these increases are usually reversible upon discontinuation of lisinopril and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent pre - existing renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when lisinopril has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction of lisinopril and / or discontinuation of the diuretic may be required .
Evaluation of the hypertensive patient should always include assessment of renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Hyperkalemia : In clinical trials hyperkalemia ( serum potassium greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L ) occurred in approximately 1 . 4 percent of hypertensive patients treated with lisinopril plus hydrochlorothiazide .
In most cases these were isolated values which resolved despite continued therapy .
Hyperkalemia was not a cause of discontinuation of therapy .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
Hyperkalemia can cause serious , sometimes fatal , arrhythmias .
Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets should be used cautiously , if at all , with these agents and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Cough : Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , almost always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Surgery / Anesthesia : In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , lisinopril may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
Hydrochlorothiazide Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance : namely , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , confusion , seizures , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmia and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Because lisinopril reduces the production of aldosterone , concomitant therapy with lisinopril attenuates the diuretic - induced potassium loss ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Agents Increasing Serum Potassium ) .
Although any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment , except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) , chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
In diabetic patients dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required .
Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics .
Thus latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion .
Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism .
Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism .
Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy .
Information for Patients Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , may occur at any time during treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril .
Patients should be so advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to take no more drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Patients should be cautioned to report lightheadedness especially during the first few days of therapy .
If actual syncope occurs , the patients should be told to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
All patients should be cautioned that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; patients should be advised to consult with their physician .
Hyperkalemia : Patients should be told not to use salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Neutropenia : Patients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) which may be a sign of neutropenia .
Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension — Patients on Diuretic Therapy : Patients on diuretics , and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril .
If it is necessary to continue the diuretic , initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily , and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour .
( See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril , an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Non - steroidal Anti - inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) Inhibitors : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) : Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or direct renin inhibitors ( such as aliskiren ) is associated with increased risk of hypotension , syncope , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes , elevated urinary - albumin to - creatinine ratio , and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate ( GFR 30 to 89 . 9 ml / min ) , randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2 . 2 years .
Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR , end state renal disease , or death , but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Monitor blood pressure , renal function , and electrolytes in patients on Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with PRINZIDE in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
Other Agents : Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and / or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions .
No meaningful clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when lisinopril was used concomitantly with propranolol , digoxin , or hydrochlorothiazide .
The presence of food in the stomach does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril .
Agents Increasing Serum Potassium : Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide - type diuretics .
Use of lisinopril with potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , eplerenone , triamterene , or amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium .
Therefore , if concomitant use of these agents is indicated , because of demonstrated hypokalemia , they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium .
Lithium : Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium , including ACE inhibitors .
Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor .
It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if lisinopril is administered concomitantly with lithium .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitors : Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema .
( seeWARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors : Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema .
( see WARNINGS ) Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics .
Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics — potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs — additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins — Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent , respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH — intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) — possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) — possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium — should not generally be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
Non - steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs — In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is obtained .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Lisinopril - Hydrochlorothiazide Lisinopril in combination with hydrochlorothiazide was not mutagenic in a microbial mutagen test using Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames test ) or Escherichia coli with or without metabolic activation or in a forward mutation assay using Chinese hamster lung cells .
Lisinopril - hydrochlorothiazide did not produce DNA single strand breaks in an in vitro alkaline elution rat hepatocyte assay .
In addition , it did not produce increases in chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro test in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo study in mouse bone marrow .
Lisinopril There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect when lisinopril was administered orally for 105 weeks to male and female rats at doses up to 90 mg / kg / day or for 92 weeks to male and female mice at doses up to 135 mg / kg / day .
These doses are 10 times and 7 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHDD ) when compared on a body surface area basis .
Lisinopril was not mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test with or without metabolic activation .
It was also negative in a forward mutation assay using Chinese hamster lung cells .
Lisinopril did not produce single strand DNA breaks in an in vitro alkaline elution rat hepatocyte assay .
In addition , lisinopril did not produce increases in chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro test in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo study in mouse bone marrow .
There were no adverse effects on reproductive performance in male and female rats treated with up to 300 mg / kg / day of lisinopril ( 33 times the MRHDD when compared on a body surface area basis ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ( 53 times the MRHDD when compared on a body surface area basis ) or in male and female rats at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ( 18 times the MRHDD when compared on a body surface area basis ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1300 mcg / mL , and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to conception and throughout gestation .
In mice and rats these doses are 9 times and 0 . 7 times , respectively , the MRHDD when compared on a body surface area basis .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether lisinopril is secreted in human milk .
However , milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
In another study , lisinopril was present in rat milk at levels similar to plasma levels in the dams .
Thiazides do appear in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious reactions in nursing infants from ACE inhibitors and hydrochlorothiazide , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Lisinopril , which crosses the placenta , has been removed from neonatal circulation by peritoneal dialysis with some clinical benefit , and theoretically may be removed by exchange transfusion , although there is no experience with the latter procedure .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
In a multiple - dose pharmacokinetic study in elderly versus young hypertensive patients using the lisinopril / hydrochlorothiazide combination , area under the plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) increased approximately 120 % for lisinopril and approximately 80 % for hydrochlorothiazide in older patients .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection .
Evaluation of the hypertensive patient should always include assessment of renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
General Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related ReactionsPresumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema : Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx has been reported rarely in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril .
This may occur at any time during treatment .
ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non - Black patients .
In such cases Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred .
Even in those instances where swelling of only the tongue is involved , without respiratory distress , patients may require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient .
Very rarely , fatalities have been reported due to angioedema associated with laryngeal edema or tongue edema .
Patients with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction , especially those with a history of airway surgery .
Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx , likely to cause airway obstruction , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 mL to 0 . 5 mL ) and / or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway , should be promptly provided .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE - inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor ( see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure : Sudden and potentially life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
In such patients , dialysis must be stopped immediately , and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated .
Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt / volume - depleted persons , such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Syncope has been reported in 0 . 8 percent of patients receiving Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets .
In patients with hypertension receiving lisinopril alone , the incidence of syncope was 0 . 1 percent .
The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In patients with severe congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death .
Because of the potential fall in blood pressure in these patients , therapy should be started under very close medical supervision .
Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and / or diuretic is increased .
Similar considerations apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in supine position and , if necessary , receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has increased after volume expansion .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment , especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease .
Available data from clinical trials of lisinopril are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded .
Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis , and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ) .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with the use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative therapy to drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Lisinopril - Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg / kg / day of lisinopril in combination with 10 mg / kg / day of hydrochlorothiazide .
This dose of lisinopril is 5 times ( in mice ) and 10 times ( in rats ) the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHDD ) when compared on a body surface area basis ( mg / m2 ) ; the dose of hydrochlorothiazide is 0 . 9 times ( in mice ) and 1 . 8 times ( in rats ) the MRHDD .
Maternal or fetotoxic effects were not seen in mice with the combination .
In rats decreased maternal weight gain and decreased fetal weight occurred down to 3 / 10 mg / kg / day ( the lowest dose tested ) .
Associated with the decreased fetal weight was a delay in fetal ossification .
The decreased fetal weight and delay in fetal ossification were not seen in saline - supplemented animals given 90 / 10 mg / kg / day .
No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant mice , rats , and rabbits .
On a body surface area basis , the doses used were up 55 times , 33 times , and 0 . 15 times , respectively , the MRHDD .
Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
These doses are more than 150 times the MRHDD on a body surface area basis .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor ( see WARNINGS ) .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with diabetes .
Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy ..
These fixed - dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In using Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease , and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk .
( See WARNINGS . )
In considering use of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non - Blacks .
( See WARNINGS , Head and Neck Angioedema . )
Lisinopril - Hydrochlorothiazide As a result of its diuretic effects , hydrochlorothiazide increases plasma renin activity , increases aldosterone secretion , and decreases serum potassium .
Administration of lisinopril blocks the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone axis and tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with the diuretic .
In clinical studies , the extent of blood pressure reduction seen with the combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide was approximately additive .
The Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 10 - 12 . 5 combination worked equally well in Black and Caucasian patients .
The Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 12 . 5 and Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 25 ( a previously - marketed strength ) combinations appeared somewhat less effective in Black patients , but relatively few Black patients were studied .
In most patients , the antihypertensive effect of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets was sustained for at least 24 hours .
In a randomized , controlled comparison , the mean antihypertensive effects of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 12 . 5 and Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 25 were similar , suggesting that many patients who respond adequately to the latter combination may be controlled with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 12 . 5 .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide has little or no effect on the bioavailability of either drug .
The combination tablet is bioequivalent to concomitant administration of the separate entities .
Lisinopril Mechanism of Action Lisinopril inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated with lisinopril alone for up to 24 weeks , the mean increase in serum potassium was less than 0 . 1 mEq / L ; however , approximately 15 percent of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately six percent had a decrease greater than0 . 5 mEq / L .
In the same study , patients treated with lisinopril plus a thiazide diuretic showed essentially no change in serum potassium .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of lisinopril remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which lisinopril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , lisinopril is antihypertensive even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although lisinopril was antihypertensive in all races studied , Black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to lisinopril monotherapy than non - Black patients .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following oral administration of lisinopril , peak serum concentrations occur within about 7 hours .
Declining serum concentrations exhibit a prolonged terminal phase which does not contribute to drug accumulation .
This terminal phase probably represents saturable binding to ACE and is not proportional to dose .
Lisinopril does not appear to be bound to other serum proteins .
Lisinopril does not undergo metabolism and is excreted unchanged entirely in the urine .
Based on urinary recovery , the mean extent of absorption of lisinopril is approximately 25 percent , with large intersubject variability ( 6 - 60 percent ) at all doses tested ( 5 - 80 mg ) .
Lisinopril absorption is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract .
Upon multiple dosing , lisinopril exhibits an effective half - life of accumulation of 12 hours .
Impaired renal function decreases elimination of lisinopril , which is excreted principally through the kidneys , but this decrease becomes clinically important only when the glomerular filtration rate is below 30 mL / min .
Above this glomerular filtration rate , the elimination half - life is little changed .
With greater impairment , however , peak and trough lisinopril levels increase , time to peak concentration increases and time to attain steady state is prolonged .
Older patients , on average , have ( approximately doubled ) higher blood levels and area under the plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) than younger patients .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis .
Studies in rats indicate that lisinopril crosses the blood - brain barrier poorly .
Multiple doses of lisinopril in rats do not result in accumulation in any tissues .
However , milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
By whole body autoradiography , radioactivity was found in the placenta following administration of labeled drug to pregnant rats , but none was found in the fetuses .
Pharmacodynamics Administration of lisinopril to patients with hypertension results in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is usually not observed although it can occur and should be anticipated in volume and / or salt - depleted patients .
( See WARNINGS . )
In most patients studied , onset of antihypertensive activity was seen at one hour after oral administration of an individual dose of lisinopril , with peak reduction of blood pressure achieved by six hours .
In some patients achievement of optimal blood pressure reduction may require two to four weeks of therapy .
At recommended single daily doses , antihypertensive effects have been maintained for at least 24 hours after dosing , although the effect at 24 hours was substantially smaller than the effect six hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effects of lisinopril have continued during long - term therapy .
Abrupt withdrawal of lisinopril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure ; nor with a significant overshoot of pretreatment blood pressure .
In hemodynamic studies in patients with essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance with little or no change in cardiac output and in heart rate .
In a study in nine hypertensive patients , following administration of lisinopril , there was an increase in mean renal blood flow that was not significant .
Data from several small studies are inconsistent with respect to the effect of lisinopril on glomerular filtration rate in hypertensive patients with normal renal function , but suggest that changes , if any , are not large .
In patients with renovascular hypertension lisinopril has been shown to be well tolerated and effective in controlling blood pressure ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Thiazides do not usually affect normal blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic and antihypertensive .
It affects the distal renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
Hydrochlorothiazide increases excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Natriuresis may be accompanied by some loss of potassium and bicarbonate .
After oral use diuresis begins within two hours , peaks in about four hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours , the plasma half - life has been observed to vary between 5 . 6 and 14 . 8 hours .
At least 61 percent of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier .
Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP combines an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , lisinopril , and a diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide .
Lisinopril , a synthetic peptide derivative , is an oral long - acting angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor .
It is chemically described as ( S ) - 1 - [ N2 - ( 1 - carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ) - L - lysyl ] - L - proline dihydrate .
Its empirical formula is C21H31N3O5 • 2H2O and its structural formula is : [ Structural Formula of Lisinopril ] Lisinopril is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 441 . 52 .
It is soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol , and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ Structural Formula of Hydrochlorothiazide ] Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 73 , which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP is available for oral use in three tablet combinations of lisinopril with hydrochlorothiazide : Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 10 - 12 . 5 , containing 10 mg lisinopril and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP and Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 20 - 12 . 5 , containing 20 mg lisinopril and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP and Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20 - 25 , containing 20 mg lisinopril and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide USP .
Inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate , FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake ( 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg only ) , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake ( 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 20 mg / 25 mg ) , magnesium stearate , mannitol , and pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
