Principal Display Panel VioNex no rinse gel Antiseptic Handwash Manufactured for : METREX RESEARCH 28210 Wick Road Romulus , Michigan 48174 MADE IN USA Reorder No . : Metrex Protecting People fl .
oz .
( mL ) Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose Chloroxylenol 0 . 52 % ................................. Antiseptic handwash Uses • for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin • helps prevent cross contamination by hand contact • helps prevent drying and chafing of skin • recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not use in or near eyes • use in a well - ventilated area • discontinue use if irritation and redness develop Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental ingestion , seek medical attention or contact a poison control center immediately .
Directions • place a palmful of product in one hand • spread on both hands and rub into the skin until dry ( 1 - 2 minutes ) • place a smaller amount into one hand , spread over both hands to wrist and rub into the skin until dry ( 30 seconds ) • no rinsing or wiping is required Other information • store at room temperature • for Hospital and Professional Use Only Inactive Ingredients Acetulated Lanoline Alcohol , cetyl Acetate , Diisopropylamine Carbomer , Dimethicone ( silicone ) , Fragrance , Isopropyl Myristate , Nonoxynol - 9 , Polysorbate 80 , SD Alcohol 40 B ( 10 % ) and Water Questions or comments ?
For product or technical information , contact Metrex .
Monday to Friday 6 am - 4 pm PST at 800 - 841 - 1428 or visit our web site at www . metrex . com .
VioNex No Rinse Gel is a non - drying , non - flammable , waterless gel for broad spectrum germ killing and effective skin cleansing .
VioNex No Rinse Gel contains silicone and emmolients to moisturize the skin .
VioNex No Rinse Gel provides a convenient and economical way to cleanse and kill germs on your hands when soap and water are not available .
image of VioNexNRGBottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] image of VioNexNRGBox [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
