Drug Facts Active ingredient Camphor 6 . 2 % Purpose Cough suppressant Use temporarily relieves cough ocurring with a cold Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For steam inhalation only .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough that ocurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • take by mouth • direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face • add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
In case of eye exposure , flush with water .
Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults & children 2 years & over : • use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1 ½ teaspoonful of solution for each pint of water • add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer • follow manufacturer ' s directions for using vaporizer • breathe in the medicated vapors • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat Inactive ingredients alcohol ( 78 % ) , cedarleaf oil , dimethicone , eucalyptus oil , laureth - 7 , menthol , nutmeg oil , poloxamer 124 Tamper - evident : do not use if the imprinted seal under the cap is broken or missing .
Keep this carton .
It has important information .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Quality Choice Compare to the active ingredient in Vicks ® VapoSteam ® * MEDICATED VAPORIZING STEAM LIQUID COUGH SUPPRESSANT CONTAINS CAMPHOR Liquid Medication for Hot Steam Vaporizers Relieves Cough to Help You Rest CAUTION : NOT FOR INTERNAL USE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
