ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Detach “ Patient ' s Instructions for Use ” from package insert and dispense with the product .
Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in ATROVENT Nasal Spray is ipratropium bromide ( as the monohydrate ) .
It is an anticholinergic agent chemically described as 8 - azoniabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] octane , 3 - ( 3 - hydroxy - 1 - oxo - 2 - phenylpropoxy ) - 8 - methyl - 8 - ( 1 - methylethyl ) - , bromide monohydrate , ( 3 - endo , 8 - syn ) - : a synthetic quaternary ammonium compound , chemically related to atropine .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H30BrNO3 • H2O ipratropium bromide Mol .
Wt .
430 . 4 Ipratropium bromide is a white to off - white crystalline substance , freely soluble in water and methanol , sparingly soluble in ethanol , and insoluble in non - polar media .
In aqueous solution , it exists in an ionized state as a quaternary ammonium compound .
ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is a metered - dose , manual pump spray unit which delivers 21 mcg ipratropium bromide ( on an anhydrous basis ) per spray ( 70 μL ) in an isotonic aqueous solution , pH - adjusted to 4 . 7 with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( if needed ) .
It also contains benzalkonium chloride , edetate disodium , sodium chloride , and purified water .
Each bottle contains 345 sprays .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ipratropium bromide is an anticholinergic ( parasympatholytic ) agent which , based on animal studies , appears to inhibit vagally - mediated reflexes by antagonizing the action of acetylcholine , the transmitter agent released at the neuromuscular junctions in the lung .
In humans , ipratropium bromide has anti - secretory properties and , when applied locally , inhibits secretions from the serous and seromucous glands lining the nasal mucosa .
Ipratropium bromide is a quaternary amine that minimally crosses the nasal and gastrointestinal membranes and the blood - brain barrier , resulting in a reduction of the systemic anticholinergic effects ( e . g . , neurologic , ophthalmic , cardiovascular , and gastrointestinal effects ) that are seen with tertiary anticholinergic amines .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Ipratropium bromide is poorly absorbed into the systemic circulation following oral administration ( 2 - 3 % ) .
Less than 20 % of an 84 mcg per nostril dose was absorbed from the nasal mucosa of normal volunteers , induced - cold patients , or perennial rhinitis patients .
Distribution : Ipratropium bromide is minimally bound ( 0 to 9 % in vitro ) to plasma albumin and α1 - acid glycoprotein .
Its blood / plasma concentration ratio was estimated to be about 0 . 89 .
Studies in rats have shown that ipratropium bromide does not penetrate the blood - brain barrier .
Metabolism : Ipratropium bromide is partially metabolized to ester hydrolysis products , tropic acid and tropane .
These metabolites appear to be inactive based on in vitro receptor affinity studies using rat brain tissue homogenates .
Elimination : After intravenous administration of 2 mg ipratropium bromide to 10 healthy volunteers , the terminal half - life of ipratropium was approximately 1 . 6 hours .
The total body clearance and renal clearance were estimated to be 2 , 505 and 1 , 019 mL / min , respectively .
The amount of the total dose excreted unchanged in the urine ( Ae ) within 24 hours was approximately one - half of the administered dose .
Pediatrics : Following administration of 42 mcg of ipratropium bromide per nostril two or three times a day in perennial rhinitis patients 6 - 18 years old , the mean amounts of the total dose excreted unchanged in the urine ( 8 . 6 to 11 . 1 % ) were higher than those reported in adult volunteers or adult perennial rhinitis patients ( 3 . 7 to 5 . 6 % ) .
Plasma ipratropium concentrations were relatively low ( ranging from undetectable up to 0 . 49 ng / mL ) .
No correlation of the amount of the total dose excreted unchanged in the urine ( Ae ) with age or gender was observed in the pediatric population .
Special Populations : Gender does not appear to influence the absorption or excretion of nasally administered ipratropium bromide .
The pharmacokinetics of ipratropium bromide have not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal insufficiency or in the elderly .
Drug - Drug Interactions : No specific pharmacokinetic studies were conducted to evaluate potential drug - drug interactions .
Pharmacodynamics In two single - dose trials ( n = 17 ) , doses up to 336 mcg of ipratropium bromide did not significantly affect pupillary diameter , heart rate , or systolic / diastolic blood pressure .
Similarly , in patients with induced - colds , Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 06 % ( 84 mcg / nostril four times a day ) , had no significant effects on pupillary diameter , heart rate or systolic / diastolic blood pressure .
Two nasal provocation trials in perennial rhinitis patients ( n = 44 ) using ipratropium bromide nasal spray showed a dose dependent increase in inhibition of methacholine induced nasal secretion with an onset of action within 15 minutes ( time of first observation ) .
Controlled clinical trials demonstrated that intranasal fluorocarbon - propelled ipratropium bromide does not alter physiologic nasal functions ( e . g . , sense of smell , ciliary beat frequency , mucociliary clearance , or the air conditioning capacity of the nose ) .
Clinical Trials The clinical trials for Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % were conducted in patients with nonallergic perennial rhinitis ( NAPR ) and in patients with allergic perennial rhinitis ( APR ) .
APR patients were those who experienced symptoms of nasal hypersecretion and nasal congestion or sneezing when exposed to specific perennial allergens ( e . g . , dust mites , molds ) and were skin test positive to these allergens .
NAPR patients were those who experienced symptoms of nasal hypersecretion and nasal congestion or sneezing throughout the year , but were skin test negative to common perennial allergens .
In four controlled , four - and eight - week comparisons of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % ( 42 mcg per nostril , two or three times daily ) with its vehicle , in patients with allergic or nonallergic perennial rhinitis , there was a statistically significant decrease in the severity and duration of rhinorrhea in the ATROVENT group throughout the entire study period .
An effect was seen as early as the first day of therapy .
There was no effect of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % on degree of nasal congestion , sneezing , or postnasal drip .
The response to ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % did not appear to be affected by the type of perennial rhinitis ( NAPR or APR ) , age , or gender .
No controlled clinical trials directly compared the efficacy of BID versus TID treatment .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is indicated for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older .
ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % does not relieve nasal congestion , sneezing , or postnasal drip associated with allergic or nonallergic perennial rhinitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to atropine or its derivatives , or to any of the other ingredients .
WARNINGS Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ipratropium bromide , as demonstrated by urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema .
If such a reaction occurs , therapy with ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % should be stopped at once and alternative treatment should be considered .
PRECAUTIONS General • 1 .
Effects Seen with Anticholinergic Drugs : ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % should be used with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , prostatic hyperplasia , or bladder neck obstruction , particularly if they are receiving an anticholinergic by another route .
• 2 .
Use in Hepatic or Renal Disease : ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal insufficiency .
It should be used with caution in those patient populations .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised that temporary blurring of vision , precipitation or worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma , mydriasis , increased intraocular pressure , acute eye pain or discomfort , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival and corneal congestion may result if ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % comes into direct contact with the eyes .
Patients should be instructed to avoid spraying ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in or around their eyes .
Patients who experience eye pain , blurred vision , excessive nasal dryness , or episodes of nasal bleeding should be instructed to contact their doctor .
To ensure proper dosing , patients should be advised not to alter the size of the nasal spray opening .
Patients should be reminded to carefully read and follow the accompanying Patient ' s Instructions for Use .
Since dizziness , accommodation disorder , mydriasis , and blurred vision may occur with use of ATROVENT , patients should be cautioned about engaging in activities requiring balance and visual acuity such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Drug Interactions No controlled clinical trials were conducted to investigate potential drug - drug interactions .
There is potential for an additive interaction with other concomitantly administered medications with anticholinergic properties , including ATROVENT for oral inhalation .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year oral carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice have revealed no carcinogenic activity at doses up to 6 mg / kg .
This dose corresponds in rats and mice to approximately 190 and 95 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults , respectively , and approximately 110 and 55 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis .
Results of various mutagenicity studies ( Ames test , mouse dominant lethal test , mouse micronucleus test , and chromosome aberration of bone marrow in Chinese hamsters ) were negative .
Fertility of male or female rats at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 600 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) was unaffected by ipratropium bromide administration .
At an oral dose of 500 mg / kg ( approximately 16 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) , ipratropium bromide produced a decrease in the conception rate .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Oral reproduction studies were performed at doses of 10 mg / kg in mice , 1000 mg / kg in rats and 125 mg / kg in rabbits .
These doses correspond , in each species , respectively , to approximately 160 , 32 , 000 , and 8 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis .
Inhalation reproduction studies were conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of 1 . 5 and 1 . 8 mg / kg , respectively , ( approximately 50 and 120 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
These studies demonstrated no evidence of teratogenic effects as a result of ipratropium bromide .
At oral doses 90 mg / kg and above in rats ( approximately 2 , 900 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) embryotoxicity was observed as increased resorption .
This effect is not considered relevant to human use due to the large doses at which it was observed and the difference in route of administration .
However , no adequate or well controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is known that some ipratropium bromide is systemically absorbed following nasal administration ; however the portion which may be excreted in human milk is unknown .
Because lipid - insoluble quaternary cations pass into breast milk , caution should be exercised when ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use The safety of Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % at a dose of two sprays ( 42 mcg ) per nostril two or three times daily ( total dose 168 to 252 mcg / day ) has been demonstrated in 77 pediatric patients 6 - 12 years of age in placebo - controlled , 4 - week trials and in 55 pediatric patients in active - controlled , 6 month trials .
The effectiveness of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % for the treatment of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in this pediatric age group is based on an extrapolation of the demonstrated efficacy of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in adults with these conditions and the likelihood that the disease course , pathophysiology , and the drug ' s effects are substantially similar to that of the adults .
The recommended dose for the pediatric population is based on within and cross - study comparisons of the efficacy of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in adults and pediatric patients and on its safety profile in both adults and pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in patients under 6 years of age have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction information on ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in patients with perennial rhinitis was derived from four multicenter , vehicle - controlled clinical trials involving 703 patients ( 356 patients on ATROVENT and 347 patients on vehicle ) , and a one - year , open - label , follow - up trial .
In three of the trials , patients received ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % three times daily , for eight weeks .
In the other trial , ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % was given to patients two times daily for four weeks .
Of the 285 patients who entered the open - label , follow - up trial , 232 were treated for 3 months , 200 for 6 months , and 159 up to one year .
The majority ( > 86 % ) of patients treated for one year were maintained on 42 mcg per nostril , two or three times daily , of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % .
Table 1 shows adverse events , and the frequency that these adverse events led to the discontinuation of treatment , reported for patients who received ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % at the recommended dose of 42 mcg per nostril , or vehicle two or three times daily for four or eight weeks .
Only adverse events reported with an incidence of at least 2 . 0 % in the ATROVENT group and higher in the ATROVENT group than in the vehicle group are shown .
Table 1 % of Patients Reporting Events + Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Vehicle Control Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % ( n = 356 ) ( n = 347 ) Incidence % Discontinued % Incidence % Discontinued % + This table includes adverse events which occurred at an incidence rate of at least 2 . 0 % in the ATROVENT group and more frequently in the ATROVENT group than in the vehicle group .
1 Epistaxis reported by 7 . 0 % of ATROVENT patients and 2 . 3 % of vehicle patients , blood - tinged mucus by 2 . 0 % of ATROVENT patients and 2 . 3 % of vehicle patients .
2 Nasal irritation includes reports of nasal itching , nasal burning , nasal irritation , and ulcerative rhinitis .
3 Other nasal symptoms include reports of nasal congestion , increased rhinorrhea , increased rhinitis , posterior nasal drip , sneezing , nasal polyps , and nasal edema .
* All events are listed by their WHO term ; rhinitis has been presented by descriptive terms for clarification .
Headache 9 . 8 0 . 6 9 . 2 0 . 0 Upper respiratory tract infection 9 . 8 1 . 4 7 . 2 1 . 4 Epistaxis1 9 . 0 0 . 3 4 . 6 0 . 3 Rhinitis * Nasal dryness 5 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 9 0 . 3 Nasal irritation2 2 . 0 0 . 0 1 . 7 0 . 6 Other nasal symptoms3 3 . 1 1 . 1 1 . 7 0 . 3 Pharyngitis 8 . 1 0 . 3 4 . 6 0 . 0 Nausea 2 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 9 0 . 0 ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % was well tolerated by most patients .
The most frequently reported nasal adverse events were transient episodes of nasal dryness or epistaxis .
These adverse events were mild or moderate in nature , none was considered serious , none resulted in hospitalization and most resolved spontaneously or following a dose reduction .
Treatment for nasal dryness and epistaxis was required infrequently ( 2 % or less ) and consisted of local application of pressure or a moisturizing agent ( e . g . , petroleum jelly or saline nasal spray ) .
Patient discontinuation for epistaxis or nasal dryness was infrequent in both the controlled ( 0 . 3 % or less ) and one - year , open - label ( 2 % or less ) trials .
There was no evidence of nasal rebound ( i . e . , a clinically significant increase in rhinorrhea , posterior nasal drip , sneezing or nasal congestion severity compared to baseline ) upon discontinuation of double - blind therapy in these trials .
Adverse events reported by less than 2 % of the patients receiving ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % during the controlled clinical trials or during the open - label follow - up trial , which are potentially related to ATROVENT ’ s local effects or systemic anticholinergic effects include : dry mouth / throat , dizziness , ocular irritation , blurred vision , conjunctivitis , hoarseness , cough , and taste perversion .
There were infrequent reports of skin rash in both the controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies .
Post - Marketing Experience Allergic - type reactions such as skin rash , angioedema , including that of the throat , tongue , lips and face , generalized urticaria ( including giant urticaria ) , laryngospasm , and anaphylactic reactions have been reported with Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % and for other ipratropium bromide - containing products , with positive rechallenge in some cases .
Additional side effects identified from the published literature and / or post - marketing surveillance on the use of ipratropium bromide - containing products ( singly or in combination with albuterol ) , include : urinary retention , prostatic disorders , mydriasis , cases of precipitation or worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma , acute eye pain , wheezing , dryness of the oropharynx , sinusitis , tachycardia , palpitations , pain , edema , gastrointestinal distress ( diarrhea , nausea , vomiting ) , bowel obstruction , constipation , nasal discomfort , throat irritation , hypersensitivity , accommodation disorder , intraocular pressure increased , glaucoma , halo vision , conjunctival hyperaemia , corneal edema , heart rate increased , bronchospasm , pharyngeal edema , gastrointestinal motility disorder , mouth edema , stomatitis , and pruritus .
After oral inhalation of ipratropium bromide in patients suffering from COPD / Asthma supraventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Acute overdosage by intranasal administration is unlikely since ipratropium bromide is not well absorbed systemically after intranasal or oral administration .
Following administration of a 20 mg oral dose ( equivalent to ingesting more than four bottles of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % ) to 10 male volunteers , no change in heart rate or blood pressure was noted .
Following a 2 mg intravenous infusion over 15 minutes to the same 10 male volunteers , plasma ipratropium concentrations of 22 - 45 ng / mL were observed ( > 100 times the concentrations observed following intranasal administration ) .
Following intravenous infusion these 10 volunteers had a mean increase of heart rate of 50 bpm and less than 20 mmHg change in systolic or diastolic blood pressure at the time of peak ipratropium levels .
Oral median lethal doses of ipratropium bromide were greater than 1 , 001 mg / kg in mice ( approximately 16 , 000 and 9 , 500 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) , 1 , 663 mg / kg in rats ( approximately 53 , 000 and 32 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) , and 400 mg / kg in dogs ( approximately 43 , 000 and 25 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is two sprays ( 42 mcg ) per nostril two or three times daily ( total dose 168 to 252 mcg / day ) for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older .
Optimum dosage varies with the response of the individual patient .
Initial pump priming requires seven sprays of the pump .
If used regularly as recommended , no further priming is required .
If not used for more than 24 hours , the pump will require two sprays , or if not used for more than seven days , the pump will require seven sprays to reprime .
Avoid spraying into eyes .
HOW SUPPLIED Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is supplied in a white high density polyethylene ( HDPE ) bottle fitted with a metered nasal spray pump , a green safety clip to prevent accidental discharge of the spray , and a clear plastic dust cap .
It contains 31 . 1 g of product formulation , 345 sprays , each delivering 21 mcg of ipratropium bromide per spray ( 70 μL ) , or 28 days of therapy at the maximum recommended dose ( two sprays per nostril three times a day ) ( NDC 54868 - 5565 - 0 ) .
Store tightly closed at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Keep out of reach of children .
Do not spray in the eyes .
Address medical inquiries to : http : / / us . boehringer - ingelheim . com , ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 or ( 800 ) 459 - 9906 TTY .
Patients should be reminded to read and follow the accompanying “ Patient ’ s Instructions for Use ” , which should be dispensed with the product .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH Copyright 2010 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Rev : July 2010 IT4000DG1710 10001900 / 06 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient ' s Instructions for Use Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % 21 mcg / spray Read complete instructions carefully before using .
In order to ensure proper dosing , do not attempt to change the size of the spray opening .
ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is indicated for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea ( runny nose ) associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older .
ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % does not relieve nasal congestion , sneezing , or postnasal drip associated with allergic or nonallergic perennial rhinitis .
Read complete instructions carefully and use only as directed .
To Use : • Remove the clear plastic dust cap and the green safety clip from the nasal spray pump ( Figure 1 ) .
The safety clip prevents the accidental discharge of the spray in your pocket or purse .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • The nasal spray pump must be primed before Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is used for the first time .
To prime the pump , hold the bottle with your thumb at the base and your index and middle fingers on the white shoulder area .
Make sure the bottle points upright and away from your eyes .
Press your thumb firmly and quickly against the bottle seven times ( Figure 2 ) .
The pump is now primed and can be used .
Your pump should not have to be reprimed unless you have not used the medication for more than 24 hours ; repriming the pump will only require two sprays .
If you have not used your nasal spray for more than seven days , repriming the pump will require seven sprays .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Before using ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % , blow your nose gently to clear your nostrils if necessary .
• Close one nostril by gently placing your finger against the side of your nose , tilt your head slightly forward and , keeping the bottle upright , insert the nasal tip into the other nostril ( Figure 3 ) .
Point the tip toward the back and outer side of the nose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Press firmly and quickly upwards with the thumb at the base while holding the white shoulder portion of the pump between your index and middle fingers .
Following each spray , sniff deeply and breathe out through your mouth .
• After spraying the nostril and removing the unit , tilt your head backwards for a few seconds to let the spray spread over the back of the nose .
• Repeat steps 4 through 6 in the same nostril .
• Repeat steps 4 through 7 in the other nostril ( i . e . , two sprays per nostril ) .
• Replace the clear plastic dust cap and safety clip .
• At some time before the medication is completely used up , you should consult your physician or pharmacist to determine whether a refill is needed .
You should not take extra doses or stop using Atrovent ® ( ipratropium bromide ) Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % without consulting your physician .
To Clean : If the nasal tip becomes clogged , remove the clear plastic dust cap and safety clip .
Hold the nasal tip under running , warm tap water ( Figure 4 ) for about a minute .
Dry the nasal tip , reprime the nasal spray pump ( step 2 above ) , and replace the plastic dust cap and safety clip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Caution : ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % is intended to relieve your rhinorrhea ( runny nose ) with regular use .
It is therefore important that you use ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % as prescribed by your physician .
For most patients , some improvement in runny nose is usually apparent during the first full day of treatment with ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % .
Some patients may require up to two weeks of treatment to obtain maximum benefit .
Do not spray ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in your eyes .
Should this occur , immediately flush your eye with cool tap water for several minutes .
If you accidentally spray ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % in your eyes , you may experience a temporary blurring of vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival and corneal congestion , development or worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma , pupil dilation , or acute eye pain / discomfort , and increased sensitivity to light , which may last a few hours .
Should acute eye pain or blurred vision occur , contact your doctor .
Should you experience excessive nasal dryness or episodes of nasal bleeding contact your doctor .
If you have glaucoma or difficulty urinating due to an enlargement of the prostate , be sure to tell your physician prior to using ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % .
If you are pregnant or you are breast feeding your baby , be sure to tell your physician prior to using ATROVENT Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % .
Address medical inquiries to : http : / / us . boehringer - ingelheim . com , ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 or ( 800 ) 459 - 9906 TTY .
Store tightly closed at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH Copyright 2010 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Rev : July 2010 IT4000DG1710 10001900 / 06 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atrovent Nasal Spray 0 . 03 % 21 mcg / spray 30 mL ( 345 metered sprays ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
