DESCRIPTION TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each gram of TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % contains : Active : tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) .
Preservative : chlorobutanol 0 . 5 % .
Inactives : mineral oil , white petrolatum .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C18H37N5O9 Molecular weight : 467 . 52 Chemical name : 0 - { 3 - amino - 3 - deoxy - α - D - gluco - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) } - 0 - { 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribohexo - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) } - 2 - deoxystreptamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A – beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
If a sensitivity reaction to TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of ocular infections .
Information For Patients Do not touch tube tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the ointment .
Do not use the product if the imprinted carton seals have been damaged , or removed .
Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in three types of animals at doses up to thirty - three times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from TOBREX ® ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 months has not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % .
Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Other adverse reactions have not been reported from TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % therapy ; however , if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics , care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration .
In clinical trials , TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % produced significantly fewer adverse reactions ( 3 . 7 % ) than did GARAMYCIN ® Ophthalmic Ointment ( 10 . 6 % ) .
OVERDOSAGE Clinically apparent signs and symptoms of an overdose of TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % ( punctate keratitis , erythema , increased lacrimation , edema and lid itching ) may be similar to adverse reaction effects seen in some patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease , apply a half - inch ribbon into the affected eye ( s ) two or three times per day .
In severe infections , instill a half - inch ribbon into the affected eye ( s ) every three to four hours until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
How to Apply TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % : 1 .
Tilt your head back .
2 .
Place a finger on your cheek just under your eye and gently pull down until a ‘‘ V ’’ pocket is formed between your eyeball and your lower lid .
3 .
Place a small amount ( about 1 / 2 inch ) of TOBREX ( tobramycin ophthalmic ointment ) 0 . 3 % in the ‘‘ V ’’ pocket .
Do not let the tip of the tube touch your eye .
4 .
Look downward before closing your eye .
HOW SUPPLIED 3 . 5 g STERILE ointment supplied in an aluminum tube with a white polyethylene tip and white polyethylene cap ( NDC 0065 - 0644 - 35 ) , containing tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg / g ) .
Storage : Store at 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° - 80 ° F ) .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Manufactured by : S . A . ALCON - COUVREUR N . V . Puurs , Belgium © 2002 , 2003 Alcon , Inc .
Revised : October 2003 [ MULTIMEDIA ] TOBREX OPHTHALMIC OINTMENT PACKAGE LABEL - 0 . 3 % 3 . 5 GM [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
