Warning : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
DESCRIPTION : Each green film - coated tablet for oral administration contains : Iron ( Carbonyl iron , ferrous gluconate ) 90 mg Folic Acid 1 mg Vitamin B12 ( Cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Vitamin C ( Ascorbic acid ) 119 mg Docusate sodium 50 mg Inactive Ingredients : Povidone , croscarmellose sodium , acrylic resin , color added , magnesium stearate , FD & C Yellow No . 5 , magnesium silicate , FD & C Blue No . 1 , polyethylene glycol , vitamin A palmitate , ethyl vanillin .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Oral iron is absorbed most efficiently when administered between meals .
Iron is critical for normal hemoglobin synthesis to maintain oxygen transport for energy production and proper function of cells .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for effective erythropolesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several essential enzymes , Including cytochromes , which are involved in electron transport .
Folic acid is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal erytropolesis .
Folic acid is the precursor of tetrahydrofolic acid , which is involved as a cofactor for transformylation reactions In the biosynthesis of purines and thymidylates of nucleic acids .
Deficiency of folic acid may account for the defective deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) synthesis that leads to megaloblast formation and megaloblastic macrocytic anemias .
Vitamin B12 is essential to growth , cell reproduction , hematopolesis , nucleic acid , and myelin synthesis .
Deficiency may result in megaloblastic anemia or pernicious anemia .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : BioFerr ™ 90 is indicated for the treatment of all anemias that are responsive to oral iron therapy .
These include : hypochromic anemia associated with pregnancy , chronic and / or acute blood loss , metabolic disease , post - surgical convalescence , and dietary needs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Hemolytic anemia , hemochromatosis , and hemosiderosis are contraindications to iron therapy .
WARNING : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemia where vitamin B12 is deficient .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Take 2 hours after meals .
Do not exceed recommended dose .
Discontinue use if symptoms of intolerance appear .
The type of anemia and underlying cause or causes should be determined before starting therapy with BioFerr ™ 90 tablets .
Ensure Hgb , Hct , and reticulocyte count are determined before starting therapy to determine if it needs to be continued without change or if a dose change is indicated .
This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Folic Acid : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using these products since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Dosing for elderly patients should be administered with caution .
Due to the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy , dosing should start at the lower end of the dosing range .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritation , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and dark stools .
Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Prescriber should be aware of a number of iron / drug interactions , including antacids , tetracyclines , or fluoroquinolones .
OVERDOSAGE : Symptoms : abdominal pain , metabolic acidosis , anuria , CNS damage , coma , convulsions , death , dehydration , diffuse vascular congestion , hepatic cirrhosis , hypotension , hypothermia , lethargy , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , tarry stools , melena , hematernesis , tachycardia , hyperglycemia , drowsiness , pallor , cyanosis , lassitude , seizures , and shock DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily or as directed by a physician .
Do not chew tablet .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature . )
℃ NOTICE : Contact with moisture can discolor or erode the tablet .
HOW SUPPLIED : BioFerr ™ 90 ( NDC 44523 - 732 - 90 ) is a green , modified rectangle shaped , film - coated tablet , debossed with “ F7 ” on one side and blank on the other , and packaged in bottles of 90 .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 210 ) 696 - 8400 .
L73290 C01 Rev 004140 BioComp Pharma ® Inc . , San Antonio , TX 78230 1355 BioFerr ™ 90 90 mg Dual - Iron Tablets NDC 44523 - 732 - 90 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
