For Otic Use Only - Not for Ophthalmic Use NDC 45802 - 009 - 10 DESCRIPTION Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops contain fluocinolone acetonide { ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , cyclic 16 , 17 acetal with acetone } , a synthetic corticosteroid .
This formulation is also marketed as Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil , 0 . 01 % ( Body Oil ) for the treatment of atopic dermatitis and Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil , 0 . 01 % ( Scalp Oil ) for the treatment of psoriasis of the scalp .
Chemically , fluocinolone acetonide is C24H30F2O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinolone acetonide in Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops has a molecular weight of 452 . 50 .
It is a white crystalline powder that is odorless , stable in light , and melts at 270 ° C with decomposition ; soluble in alcohol , acetone and methanol ; slightly soluble in chloroform ; insoluble in water .
Each gram of Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops contains approximately 0 . 11 mg of fluocinolone acetonide in a blend of oils , which contains isopropyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , light mineral oil , oleth - 2 and refined peanut oil NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , fluocinolone acetonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion of topical corticosteroids can enhance penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Also , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin can increase percutaneous absorption .
Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is in the low to medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy in a placebo - controlled study for the treatment of chronic eczematous external otitis on 154 patients ( adults and children 2 years of age and older ) treated with five drops per ear of fluocinolone acetonide oil , 0 . 01 % ear drops twice daily , after 7 days of treatment , showed fluocinolone acetonide oil , 0 . 01 % ear drops to be superior to placebo in clearing the signs and symptoms of eczematous external otitis .
Clinical safety studies were conducted on the same formulation of fluocinolone acetonide oil 0 . 01 % , marketed as fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % .
Open - label safety studies on 33 children ( 20 subjects ages 2 to 6 years , 13 subjects ages 7 to 12 years ) with moderate to severe stable atopic dermatitis , and baseline body surface area involvement greater than 75 % in 18 patients , and 50 % to 75 % in 15 patients , were treated with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % twice daily for 4 weeks .
Morning pre - stimulation cortisol level and post - Cortrosyn stimulation cortisol level were obtained in each subject at the beginning of the trial and at the end of 4 weeks of treatment .
At the end of treatment , 4 out of 18 subjects aged 2 to 5 years showed low pre - stimulation cortisol levels ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 6 μg / dL ; normal : cortisol > 7μg / dL ) but all had normal responses to 0 . 25 mg of Cortrosyn stimulation ( cortisol > 18 μg / dL ) .
A clinical study was conducted to assess the safety of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % , which contains refined peanut oil , on subjects with known peanut allergies .
The study enrolled 13 patients with atopic dermatitis , 6 to 17 years of age .
Of the 13 patients , 9 were Radioallergosorbent Test ( RAST ) positive to peanuts and 4 had no peanut sensitivity ( controls ) .
The study evaluated the responses to both prick test and patch test utilizing peanut oil NF , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % and histamine / saline controls on the 13 individuals .
These subjects were also treated with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % twice daily for 7 days .
Prick test and patch test results for all 13 patients were negative to fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % and the refined peanut oil .
One of the 9 peanut - sensitive patients experienced an exacerbation of atopic dermatitis after 5 days of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % .
Importantly , the bulk peanut oil NF , used in fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % is heated just below 450 ° F for at least 30 minutes , which should provide for adequate decomposition of allergenic proteins .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of chronic eczematous external otitis in adults and pediatric patients 2 years old and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
This product contains refined peanut oil NF ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticoid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric use ) Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation , which may occur with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic testing .
One peanut - sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % ( see CLINICAL STUDIES section ) .
If wheal and flare type reactions ( which may be limited to pruritus ) or other manifestations of hypersensitivity develop , Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is formulated with 48 % refined peanut oil NF .
Physicians should use caution in prescribing Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops for peanut - sensitive individuals .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external ear use only .
Do not use occlusive dressings .
2 .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of contact , wash eyes liberally with water .
3 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
4 .
Patients should promptly report to their physician any worsening of their skin condition .
5 .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test A . M . plasma cortisol test Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of fluocinolone acetonide oil , 0 . 01 % ear drops .
Studies have not been performed to evaluate the mutagenic potential of fluocinolone acetonide , the active ingredient in fluocinolone acetonide oil , 0 . 01 % ear drops .
Some corticosteroids have been found to be genotoxic in various genotoxicity tests ( i . e . the in vitro human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay with metabolic activation , the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay , the Chinese hamster micronucleus test and the in vitro mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy category C : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from fluocinolone acetonide oil , 0 . 01 % ear drops .
Therefore , Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops may be used twice daily for up to 2 weeks in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with chronic eczematous external otitis .
Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is not recommended for use on the face ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , children are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis - suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is formulated with 48 % refined peanut oil NF .
Physicians should use caution in prescribing Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops for peanut - sensitive individuals .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the treatment of chronic eczematous external otitis , using the supplied ear - dropper , apply 5 drops of Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops into the affected ear .
To apply , tilt head to one side so that the ear is facing up .
Then gently pull the ear lobe backward and upward and apply 5 drops of Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops into the ear .
Keep head tilted for about a minute to allow Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops to penetrate lower into the ear canal .
Gently pat excess material dripping out of the ear using a clean cotton ball .
Follow these instructions twice each day for 7 to 14 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % Ear Drops is supplied in 1 fluid ounce bottles containing 20 mL , net weight ( Dropper Included ) ( NDC 45802 - 009 - 10 ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] CAUTION : Rx only Made in Israel Manufactured By Perrigo Yeruham , Israel Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 • www . perrigorx . com Rev 08 - 20 0N300 RC J2 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 45802 - 009 - 10 Fluocinolone Acetonide Oil , 0 . 01 % ( Ear Drops ) For Otic Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use Net Contents 20 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
