Active ingredient Purpose Oxymetazoline HCL 0 . 05 % ....................................... Nasal decongestant Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing , or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor .
Shake well before use .
Remove safety seal .
To open , rotate cap to align the marks .
Squeeze cap on both sides in a counter - clockwise turn and pull off to remove .
To spray , remove clamp and hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting the head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use and snap cap back onto the bottle .
Other information • store at room temperature 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , camphor edetate disodium , eucalyptol , menthol , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate , monobasic monohydrate Distributed by : Greenbrier International , Inc .
500 Volvo Parkway Chesapeake , VA 23320 Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
