Pain Relief Patch The unique combination of pain relievers on the transdermal patch relieve pain , inflammation and stiffness associated with joints and muscles .
Active Ingredient Menthol 10 % Wintergreen Oil 7 % Camphor 7 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Topical Analgesic Topical Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : Simple backache | Arthritis | Sprains | Strains | Bruises .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings For External Use Only Do not use otherwise than as directed .
Do Not Use • On open wounds , cuts , eyes , and face • With a heating pad When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • Do not bandage tightly Ask Your Doctor Before Use if you have • redness over the affected area • have sensitive skin • are pregnant or breast - feeding Stop Use and Ask Your Doctor • If condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • If abnormal skin irritation occurs after usage KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • For use by Adults and Children 12 year of age and older • Apply to the affected area no more than 2 times a day • Dry skin completely at application site area , before applying the patch • Open pouch and remove patch • Peel off protective film and apply sticky side to affected area • If applied on hairy skin , remove gently using mild warm water • Patch once used , cannot be re - pasted or reused • Dispose properly after use • Children under 12 years of age , consult a doctor Other Information • Store at room temperature below 80 ° F ( 27 ° C ) Inactive Ingredient Adhesive Plaster Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 241 - 6885 info @ pharmaneek . com www . ultravedic . com Distributed by : Pharmaneek , Inc .
7345 Woodland Dr . , Ste A , Indianapolis , IN 46278 © 2018 .
Made in India .
NC / DL - 378 - A & U Net Contents : 3 Patches of size 75 cm2 each PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Please Reseal After Opening NDC : 72625 - 135 - 03 ULTRA VEDICTM Pain Relief Patch Medicated | Fast Acting Lower Back , Joints , Upper Back , Shoulder , Elbow 3 Large Patches Apply for 8 - 12 Hours [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
