PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information for Novolin N ® NOVOLIN N ( NO - voe - lin ) ® NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) units / mL 100 Important : .
Do not change the type of insulin you use unless told to do so by your healthcare provider .
The amount of insulin you take as well as the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take a different type of insulin .
Know your insulin Make sure that you know the type and strength of insulin that is prescribed for you .
Read the Patient Information leaflet that comes with Novolin N before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your diabetes or your treatment .
Make sure you know how to manage your diabetes .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions about managing your diabetes .
® What is Novolin N ?
® Novolin N is a man - made insulin ( recombinant DNA origin ) NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension that is structurally identical to the insulin produced by the human pancreas that is used to control high blood sugar in patients with diabetes mellitus .
® Who should not use Novolin N ?
® Do not take Novolin N if : ® • Your blood sugar is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
• • You are allergic to anything in Novolin N . See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Novolin N . Check with your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
•®® Tell your healthcare provider : • .
Medical conditions can affect your insulin needs and your dose of Novolin N . • about all of your medical conditions ® • You and your healthcare provider should talk about the best way to manage your diabetes while you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
Novolin N has not been studied in pregnant or nursing women .
• if you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
® • including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Many medicines can affect your blood sugar levels and your insulin needs .
Your Novolin N dose may need to change if you take other medicines .
• about all of the medicines you take , ® • • if you take any other medicines , especially ones commonly called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin N . • if you have heart failure or other heart problems ® Keep a list of your medicines with you to show all your healthcare providers when you get a new medicine .
Know the medicines you take .
How should I take Novolin N ?
® Only use Novolin N if it appears cloudy or milky .
There may be air bubbles .
This is normal .
If the precipitate ( the white deposit at the bottom of the vial ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the vial , do not use it , and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
This insulin should not be used if the liquid in the vial remains clear after the vial has been gently rotated .
® Novolin N comes in : ® • 10 mL vials ( small bottles ) for use with syringe • Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to inject Novolin N before you start taking it .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions to make changes to your insulin dose .
Read the instructions for use that come with your Novolin N product .
®® • • Take Novolin N exactly as prescribed .
® • The effects of Novolin N start working 1 ½ hours after injection .
• Novolin N is an intermediate - acting insulin .
®® • The greatest blood sugar lowering effect is between 4 and 12 hours after the injection .
This blood sugar lowering may last up to 24 hours .
• • any change of insulin should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Doses of oral anti - diabetic medicines may also need to change , if your insulin is changed .
• While using Novolin N , ® • with any insulins other than Regular human insulin in the same syringe .
• Do not mix Novolin N ® • Novolin N may affect your blood sugar levels sooner if you inject it into the skin of your stomach area .
• Inject Novolin N into the skin of your stomach area , upper arms , buttocks or upper legs .
®® Never inject Novolin N into a vein or into a muscle .
® • • Change ( rotate ) your injection site within the chosen area ( for example , stomach or upper arm ) with each dose .
Do not inject into the same spot for each injection .
• You can treat mild low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) by drinking or eating something sugary right away ( fruit juice , sugar candies , or glucose tablets ) .
It is important to treat low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) right away because it could get worse and you could pass out ( become unconscious ) .
If you pass out , you will need help from another person or emergency medical services right away , and will need treatment with a glucagon injection or treatment at a hospital .
See “ What are the possible side effects of Novolin N ? ”
for more information on low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• If you take too much Novolin N , your blood sugar may fall low ( hypoglycemia ) .
®® • If high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) is not treated it can lead to diabetic ketoacidosis , which can lead to serious problems , like loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , coma or even death .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and talk to your healthcare provider if high blood sugar is a problem for you .
Severe or continuing high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) requires prompt evaluation and treatment by your healthcare provider .
Know your symptoms of high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) and diabetic ketoacidosis which may include : • If you forget to take your dose of Novolin N , your blood sugar may go too high ( hyperglycemia ) .
® • increased thirst • • fruity smell on breath • • frequent urination and dehydration • • high amounts of sugar and ketones in your urine • • confusion or drowsiness • • nausea , vomiting ( throwing up ) or stomach pain • • loss of appetite • • a hard time breathing • Ask your healthcare provider how often you should check your blood sugar levels for hypoglycemia ( too low blood sugar ) and hyperglycemia ( too high blood sugar ) .
Check your blood sugar levels .
Your insulin dosage may need to change because of : • illness • • change in diet • • stress • • change in physical activity or exercise • • other medicines you take • • surgery • See the end of this patient information for instructions about preparing and giving the injection .
What should I avoid while using Novolin N ?
® • Alcohol , including beer and wine , may affect your blood sugar when you take Novolin N . • Alcohol .
® • You may have difficulty concentrating or reacting if you have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Be careful when you drive a car or operate machinery .
Ask your healthcare provider if it is alright to drive if you often have : • Driving and operating machinery .
• low blood sugar ∘ • decreased or no warning signs of low blood sugar ∘ What are the possible side effects of Novolin N ?
® • Symptoms of hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) may include : • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• sweating • • trouble concentrating or confusion • • dizziness or lightheadedness • • blurred vision • • shakiness • • slurred speech • • hunger • • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • • fast heart beat • • headache • • tingling of lips and tongue • Severe low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can cause unconsciousness ( passing out ) , seizures , and death .
Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating low blood sugar .
Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
• a rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• Serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away if you develop • You may get redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
If you keep having skin reactions , or they are serious , talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need to stop using Novolin N and use a different insulin .
Do not inject insulin into skin that is red , swollen , or itchy .
• Reactions at the injection site ( local allergic reaction ) .
® • Change ( rotate ) where you inject your insulin to help prevent these skin changes from happening .
Do not inject insulin into this type of skin .
• Skin thickens or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) .
• • Swelling of your hands and feet • Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with Novolin N may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin N . Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with Novolin N . Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • Heart Failure .
®®® • shortness of breath ∘ • swelling of your ankles or feet ∘ • sudden weight gain ∘ • Treatment with TZDs and Novolin N may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
® • • Vision changes • • Low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) These are not all of the possible side effects from Novolin N . Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
® Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Novolin N ?
® All Unopened Novolin N : ® • ° ° ° ° • Keep all unopened Novolin N in the refrigerator between 36 ® to 46 F ( 2 to 8 C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use Novolin N if it has been frozen .
•® • If refrigeration is not possible , the unopened vial may be kept at room temperature for up to 6 weeks ( 42 days ) , as long as it is kept at or below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep unopened Novolin N in the carton to protect from light .
•® Novolin N in use : ® Vials • Keep at room temperature below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for up to 6 weeks ( 42 days ) .
• • Keep vials away from direct heat or light .
• • Throw away an opened vial after 6 weeks ( 42 days ) of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• • Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the Novolin N label , if the medicine has been stored in a refrigerator .
•® General advice about Novolin N ® Novolin N is used for the treatment of diabetes only .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use Novolin N for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Novolin N to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
®®® This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Novolin N .
If you would like more information about Novolin N or diabetes , talk with your healthcare provider .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or visit www . novonordisk - us . com .
®® Helpful information for people with diabetes is published by the American Diabetes Association , 1701 N Beauregard Street , Alexandria , VA 22311 and on www . diabetes . org .
Novolin N ingredients include : ® • Human Insulin Isophane Suspension ( recombinant DNA origin ) • • Metacresol • • Zinc chloride • • Glycerol • • Sodium hydroxide • • Hydrochloric acid • • Phenol • • Protamine sulfate • • Disodium phosphate dihydrate • • Water for injections • All Novolin N vials are latex - free .
® Date of issue : March 9 , 2013 Version : 6 Novolin and Novo Nordisk are registered trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
®® © 2005 - 2013 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about Novolin N contact : ® Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Novolin N 10 mL vial ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) ® Before starting , gather all of the supplies that you will need to use for preparing and giving your insulin injection .
Never re - use syringes and needles .
How should I use the Novolin N vial ?
• Check to make sure that you have the correct type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use different types of insulin .
1 .
• Look at the vial and the insulin .
The insulin should be a cloudy or milky suspension The tamper - resistant cap should be in place before the first use .
If the cap had been removed before your first use of the vial , or if the precipitate ( the white deposit at the bottom of the vial ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the vial , do not use it , and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
2 ..
• Wash your hands with soap and water .
If you clean your injection site with an alcohol swab , let the injection site dry before you inject .
Talk with your healthcare provider about how to rotate injection sites and how to give an injection .
3 .
• If you are using a new vial , pull off the tamper - resistant cap .
Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
4 .
• Roll the vial gently 10 times in your hands to mix it .
This procedure should be carried out with the vial in a horizontal position .
The rolling procedure must be repeated until the suspension appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Shaking right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or froth , which could cause you to draw up the wrong dose of insulin .
5 .
• Pull back the plunger on the syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
6 .
• Push the needle through the rubber stopper of the vial , and push the plunger all the way in to force air into the vial .
7 .
• Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose .
8 .
• If there are any air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles present in the syringe back into the vial .
9 .
• Check to make sure you have the right dose of Novolin N in the syringe .
10 .
• Pull the syringe with needle out of the vial ’ s rubber stopper .
11 .
• Your doctor should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before inserting the needle .
This can vary from patient to patient so it is important to ask your doctor if you did not receive instructions on pinching the skin .
Insert the needle into the skin .
Press the plunger of the syringe to inject the insulin .
When you are finished injecting the insulin , pull the needle out of your skin .
You may see a drop of Novolin N at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol wipe .
12 .
Do not rub the area .
• After your injection , do not recap the needle .
Place used syringes , needles and used insulin vials in a disposable puncture - resistant sharps container , or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw on cap such as a detergent bottle or coffee can .
13 .
• Ask your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be state or local laws about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycle .
14 .
How should I mix Novolin N with Regular human insulin ?
Different insulins should be mixed only under instruction from a health care provider .
Novolin N should be mixed only when injections with syringes are used .
Insulin syringes may vary in the amount of space between the bottom line and the needle ( “ dead space ” ) , so if you are mixing two types of insulin be sure to discuss any change in the model and brand of syringe you are using with your healthcare provider .
Novolin N can be mixed with Regular human insulin right before use .
When you are mixing Novolin N insulin with Regular human insulin , always draw the Regular human ( clear ) insulin into the syringe first .
Do not mix Novolin N with any other type of insulin besides Regular human insulin .
• Add together the doses ( total number of units ) of Regular human insulin and Novolin N that you need to inject .
The total dose will determine the final amount ( volume ) in the syringe after drawing up both insulins into the syringe .
For example , if you need 5 units of Novolin N and 2 units of Regular human insulin , the total dose of insulin in the syringe would be 7 units .
1 .
• Roll the Novolin N vial between your hands until the liquid is equally cloudy throughout .
2 .
• Draw into the syringe the same amount of air as the Novolin N dose .
Inject this air into the Novolin N vial and then remove the needle from the vial but do not withdraw any of the Novolin N insulin .
( Transferring Novolin N to the Regular human insulin vial will contaminate the Regular human insulin vial and may change how quickly it works . )
3 .
• Draw into the syringe the same amount of air as the Regular human insulin dose .
Inject this air into the Regular human insulin vial .
With the needle in place , turn the vial upside down and withdraw the correct dose of Regular human insulin .
The tip of the needle must be in the Regular human insulin to get the full dose and not an air dose .
4 .
• After withdrawing the needle from the Regular human insulin vial , insert the needle into the Novolin N vial .
Turn the Novolin N vial upside down with the syringe and needle still in it .
Withdraw the correct dose of Novolin N . 5 .
• Inject right away to avoid changes in how quickly the insulin works .
6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
