claims H - E - B Solutions sunscreen • With Aloe and Vitamin E • Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) • Oil Free & Wont Clog Pores • Clear Zinc Sunscreen for Race , Nose or Ears Active ingredient Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Zinc oxide 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , mdecreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minures of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To derease this risk , reqularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , butyloctyl salicylate , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , glyceryl stearate , propanediol , triacontanyl PVP , cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , cetearyl glucoside , glyceryl behenate , dimethicone , glycerin , PEG - 150 / decyl alcohol / SMDI copolymer , Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , allantoin , panthenol , tocopheryl acetate , triethoxycaprylylsilane , fragrance , phenoxyethanol , methylisothiazolinone , tetrasodium EDTA Questions ?
1 - 800 - 527 - 7731 Disclaimer May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces MADE WITH PRIDE AND CARE FOR H - E - B SAN ANTONIO , TN 78204 MADE IN USA WITH U . S AND FOREIGN PARTS 100 % GUARANTEE Promise If you are n't completely pleased with this product , we ' ll be happy to replace it or refund your money .
You have our word on it Principal panel display H - E - B Solutions Sunscreen CLEAR ZINC WITH OCTINOXATE & OCTISALATE SUNSCREEN BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 SPF 50 FOR FACE , NOSE OR EARS • With Aloe and Vitamin E • Water Resistant ( 80 minutes • Oil free & Wont Clog Pores NET WT .
1 OZ ( 28 . 3 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
