DESCRIPTION Griseofulvin oral suspension USP ( microsize ) contains griseofulvin , USP ( microsize ) for oral administration .
The active ingredient , griseofulvin , USP , is a fungistatic antibiotic , derived from a species of Penicillium .
The chemical name of griseofulvin , USP is 7 - Chloro - 2 ' , 4 , 6 - trimethoxy - 6 ' b - methylspiro [ benzofuran - 2 ( 3 H ) , 1 ' - [ 2 ] cyclohexene ] - 3 , 4 ' - dione .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Griseofulvin , USP occurs as a white to creamy white , odorless powder which is very slightly soluble in water , soluble in acetone , dimethylformamide , and chloroform and sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Griseofulvin is a pink to orange colored , tutti - frutti flavored , uniform suspension .
Each 5 mL of griseofulvin suspension contains 125 mg of griseofulvin , USP ( microsize ) and also contains the following inactive ingredients : artificial flavors , carboxymethyl cellulose sodium , dl - alpha - tocopherol , FD & C red # 40 , FD & C yellow # 6 , glycerin , hydrochloric acid , methylparaben , microcrystalline cellulose , propylene glycol , propylparaben , simethicone emulsion , sodium alginate , sodium hydroxide , sodium lauryl sulfate and sucrose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Griseofulvin absorption from the gastrointestinal tract varies considerably among individuals mainly because of insolubility of the drug in aqueous media of the upper GI tract .
Drug absorption has been estimated to range between 27 and 72 % .
After an oral dose , griseofulvin is primarily absorbed from the duodenum with some absorption occurring from the jejunum and ileum .
The peak serum level in fasting adults given 0 . 5 g of griseofulvin microsize occurs at about four hours and ranges between 0 . 5 to 2 mcg / mL .
The serum level may be increased by giving the drug with a meal with a high fat content .
In one study in pediatric patients 19 months to 11 years of age , 10 mg / kg of griseofulvin microsize given with milk resulted in mean peak serum concentrations approximately four - fold greater than the same griseofulvin dose given alone ( 1 . 29 mcg / mL versus 0 . 34 mcg / mL , respectively ) .
Also , the area under the curve value was ten - fold larger when 10 mg / kg griseofulvin and milk were administered simultaneously as compared to the same dosage given to fasting patients .
In addition , griseofulvin administered with milk resulted in more consistently detected serum levels across subjects .
Following oral administration , griseofulvin is deposited in the keratin precursor cells and has a greater affinity for diseased tissue .
The drug is tightly bound to the new keratin which becomes highly resistant to fungal invasions .
When the drug is discontinued , griseofulvin concentrations in the skin decline less rapidly than those in plasma .
Griseofulvin is metabolized by the liver to 6 - desmethylgriseofulvin and its glucuronide conjugate .
Griseofulvin has a variable elimination half - life in plasma ( 9 to 24 hours ) .
Approximately 30 % of a single oral dose of griseofulvin is excreted in the urine within 24 hours and about 50 % of the dose is excreted in the urine within 5 days , mostly in the form of metabolites .
Unchanged griseofulvin in the urine accounts for less than 1 % of the administered dose .
In addition , approximately one - third of a single dose of griseofulvin is excreted in feces within 5 days .
Griseofulvin is also excreted in perspiration .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action The mechanism of griseofulvin consists of binding microtubular proteins , which are required for mitosis .
Activity In Vivo Griseofulvin may be active against most strains of the following dermatophytes as described in the INDICATIONSAND USAGE section : Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum audouinii , Microsporum canis , Microsporum gypseum , Trichophyton crateriformis , Trichophyton gallinae , Trichophyton interdigitalis , Trichophyton megnini , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton sulphureum , Trichophyton schoenleini , Trichophyton tonsurans , and Trichophyton verrucosum .
It has no effect on bacteria or on other genera of fungi .
Activity In Vitro In vitro , griseofulvin has been shown to have activity against many dermatophytes , but the clinical significance is unknown .
Drug Resistance Although there have been reports of dermatophyte resistance to griseofulvin , the clinical significance is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Griseofulvin oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of dermatophyte infections of the skin not adequately treated by topical therapy , hair and nails , namely : Tinea corporis Tinea pedis Tinea cruris Tinea barbae Tinea capitis Tinea unguium when caused by one or more of the following species of fungi : Epidermophyton floccosum Microsporum audouinii Microsporum canis Microsporum gypseum Trichophyton crateriformis Trichophyton gallinae Trichophyton interdigitalis Trichophyton megnini Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton schoenleini Trichophyton sulphureum Trichophyton tonsurans Trichophyton verrucosum Note : Prior to therapy , a dermatophyte should be identified as responsible for the infection .
Prior to initiating treatment , appropriate specimens for laboratory testing ( KOH preparation , fungal culture , or nail biopsy ) should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis .
Griseofulvin is not effective in the following : Bacterial infections Coccidioidomycosis Candidiasis ( Moniliasis ) North American Blastomycosis Histoplasmosis Cryptococcosis ( Torulosis ) Actinomycosis Tinea versicolor Sporotrichosis Nocardiosis Chromoblastomycosis The use of this drug is not justified in minor or trivial dermatophyte infections which will respond to topical agents alone .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Griseofulvin is contraindicated in patients with porphyria or hepatocellular failure , and in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to griseofulvin .
Griseofulvin may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Two published cases of conjoined twins have been reported in patients taking griseofulvin during the first trimester of pregnancy , therefore , griseofulvin is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant during treatment .
Women taking estrogen - containing oral contraceptives may be at increased risk of becoming pregnant while on griseofulvin ( see also PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Although no direct causal relationship has been established , spontaneous abortion has been reported rarely coincident with the use of griseofulvin .
Note : The Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) was set at 500 mg / day for the multiple of human exposure calculations performed in this label .
If higher doses than 500 mg / day were used clinically , then the multiple of human exposure would be correspondingly reduced for that dose .
For example , if a 1000 mg / day dose was administered to an individual , then the multiple of human exposure would be reduced by a factor of 2 .
Griseofulvin has been shown to be embryotoxic and teratogenic in pregnant rats when given at a daily oral dose of 250 mg / kg / day [ 4 X the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) based on Body Surface Area ( BSA ) ] .
Griseofulvin also has been shown to be embryotoxic and teratogenic in pregnant cats treated weekly with griseofulvin at doses of 500 to 1000 mg / week .
There are reports of teratogenicity in a Golden Retriever when doses of 750 mg / day [ 1 . 2 X the MRHD based on BSA ] were administered for four weeks prior to and throughout the pregnancy , and in a study in which beagles were administered 35 mg / kg / day [ 1 . 9 X the MRHD based on BSA ] for intervals from one week up to the entire gestation period .
Teratogenicity was also seen in mice when griseofulvin was administered in doses equivalent to 5 g / kg / day [ 40 X the MRHD based on BSA ] for 2 consecutive days at various stages of the pregnancy .
WARNINGS Prophylactic Usage Safety and efficacy of griseofulvin for prophylaxis of fungal infections have not been established .
Serious Skin Reactions Severe skin reactions ( e . g . Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis ) and erythema multiforme have been reported with griseofulvin use .
These reactions may be serious and may result in hospitalization or death .
If severe skin reactions occur , griseofulvin should be discontinued ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Hepatotoxicity Elevations in AST , ALT , bilirubin , and jaundice have been reported with griseofulvin use .
These reactions may be serious and may result in hospitalization or death .
Patients should be monitored for hepatic adverse events and discontinuation of griseofulvin considered if warranted ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients on prolonged therapy with any potent medication should be under close observation .
Periodic monitoring of organ system function , including renal , hepatic and hematopoietic , should be done .
Since griseofulvin is derived from species of penicillin , the possibility of cross sensitivity with penicillin exists ; however , known penicillin - sensitive patients have been treated without difficulty .
Lupus erythematosus , lupus - like syndromes or exacerbation of existing lupus erythematosus have been reported in patients receiving griseofulvin .
Since a photosensitivity reaction is occasionally associated with griseofulvin therapy , patients should be warned to avoid exposure to intense or prolonged natural or artificial sunlight .
Drug Interactions Griseofulvin has been reported in the literature to interfere with the metabolism of various compounds .
Whether this is due to a P - 450 mediated enzyme induction effects on sulfurtransferase and / or glucotransferase activity , or some other mechanism is unknown .
Griseofulvin decreases the activity of warfarin - type anticoagulants , so that patients receiving these drugs concomitantly may require dosage adjustment of the anticoagulant during and after griseofulvin therapy .
Griseofulvin may enhance the hepatic metabolism of estrogens , including the estrogen component of oral contraceptives , thereby reducing the effectiveness of contraception and causing menstrual irregularities .
Therefore , an alternate or second form of birth control may be indicated during periods of concurrent use ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Cyclosporine levels may be reduced when administered concomitantly with griseofulvin , resulting in a decrease in the pharmacologic effects of cyclosporine .
Serum salicylate concentrations may be decreased when griseofulvin is given concomitantly with salicylates .
Barbiturates usually depress griseofulvin activity by decreasing plasma levels and concomitant administration may require a dosage adjustment of the antifungal agent .
Nausea , vomiting , flushing , tachycardia , and severe hypotension have been reported following alcohol ingestion during griseofulvin therapy .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In subacute toxicity studies , orally administered griseofulvin produced hepatocellular necrosis in mice , but this has not been seen in other species .
Chronic feeding of griseofulvin , at levels ranging from 0 . 5 to 2 . 5 % of the diet , resulted in the development of liver tumors in several strains of mice , particularly in males .
Smaller particle sizes resulted in an enhanced effect .
Lower oral - dosage levels have not been tested .
Subcutaneous administration of relatively small doses of griseofulvin once a week during the first three weeks of life has also been reported to induce hepatomata in mice .
Thyroid tumors , mostly adenomas but some carcinomas , have been reported in male rats receiving griseofulvin at levels of 2 % , 1 % and 0 . 2 % of the diet , and in female rats receiving the two higher dose levels .
Studies in other animal species were inadequate assessments of tumorigenicity .
Disturbances in porphyrin metabolism have been reported in griseofulvin - treated laboratory animals .
Griseofulvin has been reported to have a colchicine - like effect on mitosis and was cocarcinogenic with methylcholanthrene in cutaneous tumor induction in laboratory animals .
Griseofulvin interferes with chromosomal distribution during cell division , causing aneuploidy in plant and mammalian cells .
These effects have been demonstrated in vitro at concentrations that may be achieved in the serum with the recommended therapeutic dosage .
Suppression of spermatogenesis has been reported to occur in rats and sperm abnormalities have been observed in griseofulvin treated mice , but these were not detected in man .
Male patients should wait at least six months after completing griseofulvin therapy before fathering a child .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category X See CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if griseofulvin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for griseofulvin in animal studies ( see PRECAUTIONS , Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients 2 years of age and younger have not been established .
Safety in pediatric patients older than 2 years of age at dosages greater than 10 mg / kg daily has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been postmarketing reports of severe skin and hepatic adverse events associated with griseofulvin use ( see WARNINGS section ) .
When adverse reactions occur , they are most commonly of the hypersensitivity type , such as skin rashes , urticaria , and rarely , angioneurotic edema , and erythema multiforme .
These may necessitate withdrawal of therapy and appropriate countermeasures .
Peripheral neuropathy and paresthesias of the hands and feet have been reported and may be related to treatment duration .
Most patients treated with griseofulvin for less than six months experienced improvement or resolution of their neuropathy upon withdrawal of the griseofulvin .
Other side effects reported occasionally are oral thrush , nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , diarrhea , headache , fatigue , dizziness , insomnia , mental confusion , and impairment of performance of routine activities .
Proteinuria , nephrosis ( sometimes associated with existing systemic lupus erythematosus ) , leukopenia , coagulopathy , hepatitis , elevated liver enzymes , hyperbilirubinemia , and GI bleeding have been reported rarely .
Administration of the drug should be discontinued if granulocytopenia occurs .
OVERDOSAGE There is limited experience on overdose with griseofulvin .
In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures as required .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Accurate diagnosis of the infecting organism is essential .
Identification should be made either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Medication must be continued until the infecting organism is completely eradicated as indicated by appropriate clinical or laboratory examination .
Representative treatment periods are tinea capitis , 4 to 6 weeks ; tinea corporis , 2 to 4 weeks ; tinea pedis , 4 to 8 weeks ; tinea unguium – depending on rate of growth – fingernails , at least 4 months ; toenails , at least 6 months .
General measures in regard to hygiene should be observed to control sources of infection or reinfection .
Concomitant use of appropriate topical agents is usually required , particularly in treatment of tinea pedis .
In some forms of tinea pedis , yeasts and bacteria may be involved as well as dermatophytes .
Griseofulvin will not eradicate these associated bacterial or yeast infections .
ADULTS : 0 . 5 g daily ( 125 mg q . i . d . , 250 mg b . i . d . , or 500 mg / day ) .
Patients with less severe or 300 extensive infections may require less , whereas those with widespread lesions may require a starting dose of 0 . 75 g to 1 g / day .
This may be reduced gradually to 0 . 5 g or less after a response has been noted .
In all cases , the dosage should be individualized .
PEDIATRIC PATIENTS ( older than 2 years ) : A dosage of 10 mg / kg daily is usually adequate ( pediatric patients from 30 to 50 lb , 125 mg to 250 mg daily ; pediatric patients over 50 lb , 250 mg to 500 mg daily , in divided doses ) .
Dosage should be individualized , as with adults .
Clinical relapse will occur if the medication is not continued until the infecting organism is eradicated .
Safety is not established at higher doses than recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Griseofulvin Oral Suspension USP is available as a pink to orange colored , tutti - frutti flavored , uniform suspension containing 125 mg / 5 mL griseofulvin , USP ( microsize ) in a 4 ounce ( 120 mL ) bottle .
NDC - 69097 - 361 - 08 PHARMACIST : Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure as required .
This product is protected by a tamper - resistant seal around the neck opening .
If the seal has been broken or is removed , do not use the product .
Return the product to place of purchase .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING Manufactured by : Cipla Ltd . , Indore SEZ , Pithampur , India Manufactured for : Cipla USA , Inc .
1560 Sawgrass Corporate Parkway Suite 130 , Sunrise FL 33323 Rev 06 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 69097 - 361 - 08 RX only Griseofulvin Oral Suspension USP ( microsize ) Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) contains 125 mg griseofulvin USP ( microsize ) in a pink to orange colored , uniform suspension .
125 mg / 5 mL 4 fl oz ( 120 mL ) Cipla [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
