1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RESTASISMULTIDOSETMophthalmic emulsion is indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
RESTASISMULTIDOSETM is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of RESTASISMULTIDOSETM ophthalmic emulsion twice a day in each eye approximately 12 hours apart .
RESTASISMULTIDOSETM can be used concomitantly with lubricant eye drops , allowing a 15 - minute interval between products .
• Prime by squeezing two drops onto a tissue before initial use .
( 2 . 1 ) • Instill one drop of RESTASISMULTIDOSETM ophthalmic emulsion twice a day in each eye approximately 12 hours apart .
( 2 . 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 1 Preparation for First - Time Use Step 1 : Pull off the clear shipping cover by pulling straight up .
Throw the shipping cover away .
Do not use RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM if shipping cover or pull tab are damaged or missing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Remove the pull tab on the olive green colored protective cap by pulling the end of the pull tab away from the bottle then winding it counterclockwise .
Throw away the pull tab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Remove the olive green colored protective cap by pulling it straight up .
Keep the colored protective cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Prime the bottle for first - time use by squeezing two drops onto a tissue .
Do not let the bottle tip touch the tissue .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : The bottle is now ready for use .
After use , recap the bottle with the olive green colored protective cap by pushing it straight down onto the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Preparation for Use Step 6 : Turn the bottle upside down a few times before giving your dose to make sure the medicine is mixed well .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Instill one drop in the affected eye .
Replace the olive green colored protective cap .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic emulsion containing cyclosporine 0 . 5 mg / mL Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0 . 5 mg / mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS RESTASISMULTIDOSETM is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • To avoid the potential for eye injury and contamination , be careful not to touch the bottle tip to your eye or other surfaces .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Eye Injury and Contamination Be careful not to touch the bottle tip to your eye or other surfaces to avoid potential for eye injury and contamination .
5 . 2 Use with Contact Lenses RESTASIS MULTIDOSE ™ should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Patients with decreased tear production typically should not wear contact lenses .
If contact lenses are worn , they should be removed prior to the administration of the emulsion .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration of RESTASIS MULTIDOSE ™ ophthalmic emulsion .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Potential for Eye Injury and Contamination [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] The most common adverse reaction following the use of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0 . 05 % was ocular burning ( 17 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 433 - 8871 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , the most common adverse reaction following the use of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % was ocular burning ( 17 % ) .
Other reactions reported in 1 % to 5 % of patients included conjunctival hyperemia , discharge , epiphora , eye pain , foreign body sensation , pruritus , stinging , and visual disturbance ( most often blurring ) .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Reported reactions have included : hypersensitivity ( including eye swelling , urticaria , rare cases of severe angioedema , face swelling , tongue swelling , pharyngeal edema , and dyspnea ) ; and superficial injury of the eye ( from the bottle tip touching the eye during administration ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Clinical administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0 . 05 % is not detected systemically following topical ocular administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
Oral administration of cyclosporine to pregnant rats or rabbits did not produce teratogenicity at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
Data Animal Data At maternally toxic doses ( 30 mg / kg / day in rats and 100 mg / kg / day in rabbits ) , cyclosporine oral solution ( USP ) was teratogenic as indicated by increased pre - and postnatal mortality , reduced fetal weight and skeletal retardations .
These doses ( normalized to body surface area ) are 5 , 000 and 32 , 000 times greater , respectively , than the daily recommended human dose of one drop ( approximately 28 mcL ) of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0 . 05 % twice daily into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
No evidence of embryofetal toxicity was observed in rats or rabbits receiving cyclosporine during organogenesis at oral doses up to 17 mg / kg / day or 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses in rats and rabbits are approximately 3 , 000 and 10 , 000 times greater , respectively , than the daily recommended human dose .
An oral dose of 45 mg / kg / day cyclosporine administered to rats from Day 15 of pregnancy until Day 21 postpartum produced maternal toxicity and an increase in postnatal mortality in offspring .
This dose is 7 , 000 times greater than the daily recommended human dose .
No adverse effects in dams or offspring were observed at oral doses up to 15 mg / kg / day ( 2 , 000 times greater than the daily recommended human dose ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Cyclosporine is known to appear in human milk following systemic administration , but its presence in human milk following topical treatment has not been investigated .
Although blood concentrations are undetectable following topical administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0 . 05 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , caution should be exercised when RESTASISMULTIDOSETM is administered to a nursing woman .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for RESTASISMULTIDOSETM and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from cyclosporine .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 16 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall difference in safety or effectiveness has been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM ( cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % contains a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant with anti - inflammatory effects .
Cyclosporine ’ s chemical name is Cyclo [ [ ( E ) - ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 R ) - 3 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 - ( methylamino ) - 6 - octenoyl ] - L - 2 - aminobutyryl - N - methylglycyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - valyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - alanyl - D - alanyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - valyl ] and it has the following structure : Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] Formula : C62H111N11O12 Mol .
Wt . : 1202 . 6 Cyclosporine is a fine white powder .
RESTASISMULTIDOSETM appears as a white opaque to slightly translucent homogeneous emulsion .
It has an osmolality of 230 to 320 mOsmol / kg and a pH of 6 . 5 - 8 . 0 .
Each mL of RESTASISMULTIDOSETM ophthalmic emulsion contains : Active : cyclosporine 0 . 05 % .
Inactives : glycerin ; castor oil ; polysorbate 80 ; carbomer copolymer type A ; purified water ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cyclosporine is an immunosuppressive agent when administered systemically .
In patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca , cyclosporine emulsion is thought to act as a partial immunomodulator .
The exact mechanism of action is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Blood cyclosporine A concentrations were measured using a specific high pressure liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry assay .
Blood concentrations of cyclosporine , in all the samples collected , after topical administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % , twice daily , in humans for up to 12 months , were below the quantitation limit of 0 . 1 ng / mL .
There was no detectable drug accumulation in blood during 12 months of treatment with cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Systemic carcinogenicity studies were conducted in male and female mice and rats .
In the 78 - week oral ( diet ) mouse study , at doses of 1 , 4 , and 16 mg / kg / day , evidence of a statistically significant trend was found for lymphocytic lymphomas in females , and the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in mid - dose males significantly exceeded the control value .
In the 24 - month oral ( diet ) rat study , conducted at 0 . 5 , 2 , and 8 mg / kg / day , pancreatic islet cell adenomas significantly exceeded the control rate in the low dose level .
The hepatocellular carcinomas and pancreatic islet cell adenomas were not dose related .
The low doses in mice and rats are approximately 80 times greater ( normalized to body surface area ) than the daily recommended human dose of one drop ( approximately 28 mcL ) of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % twice daily into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
Mutagenesis Cyclosporine has not been found to be mutagenic / genotoxic in the Ames Test , the V79 - HGPRT Test , the micronucleus test in mice and Chinese hamsters , the chromosome - aberration tests in Chinese hamster bone - marrow , the mouse dominant lethal assay , and the DNA - repair test in sperm from treated mice .
A study analyzing sister chromatid exchange ( SCE ) induction by cyclosporine using human lymphocytes in vitro gave indication of a positive effect ( i . e . , induction of SCE ) .
Impairment of Fertility No impairment in fertility was demonstrated in studies in male and female rats receiving oral doses of cyclosporine up to 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 , 000 times the human daily dose of 0 . 001 mg / kg / day normalized to body surface area ) for 9 weeks ( male ) and 2 weeks ( female ) prior to mating .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Four multicenter , randomized , adequate and well - controlled clinical studies were performed in approximately 1 , 200 patients with moderate to severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % demonstrated statistically significant increases in Schirmer wetting of 10 mm versus vehicle at six months in patients whose tear production was presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation .
This effect was seen in approximately 15 % of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % - treated patients versus approximately 5 % of vehicle - treated patients .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
No increase in bacterial or fungal ocular infections was reported following administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING RESTASISMULTIDOSETM ophthalmic emulsion is packaged in a sterile , multi - dose preservative - free bottle .
Each bottle consists of a white opaque LDPE bottle , a white opaque polypropylene top with unidirectional valve and air filter , a protective olive green polypropylene cap , and a clear disposable shipping cover over the colored cap .
5 . 5 mL in 10 - mL bottle - NDC 0023 - 5301 - 05 Storage : Store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Handling the Container Advise patients to not allow the tip of the bottle to touch the eye or any surface , as this may contaminate the emulsion .
Advise patients to not touch the bottle tip to their eye to avoid the potential for injury to the eye [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use with Contact Lenses RESTASIS MULTIDOSE ™ should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Patients with decreased tear production typically should not wear contact lenses .
Advise patients that if contact lenses are worn , they should be removed prior to the administration of the emulsion .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration of RESTASIS MULTIDOSE ™ ophthalmic emulsion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Advise patients to read the “ Instructions for Use ” for detailed first - time use instructions .
© 2016 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Patented : See : www . allergan . com / products / patents Made in Ireland .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 72843US12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM ( Re stay ’ sis Mul tee dōs ) ( cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % Read this Instructions for Use before you start using RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Important : • RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM is for use in the eye • Wash your hands before using RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM .
• Do not let the bottle tip touch the eye or any other surfaces to avoid contamination or injury to your eye .
• Use 1 drop of RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM in each eye , 2 times each day , about 12 hours apart .
• If you wear contact lenses , remove them before using RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM .
Wait for at least 15 minutes before placing them back in your eyes .
• RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM can be used with lubricant eye drops , but you should wait at least 15 minutes between using each product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PREPARING THE BOTTLE FOR FIRST - TIME USE : Step 1 : Pull off shipping cover by pulling straight up .
Throw the shipping cover away .
Do not use RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM if shipping cover or pull tab are damaged or missing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Remove the pull tab on the olive green colored protective cap by pulling the end of the pull tab away from the bottle then winding it counterclockwise .
Throw away the pull tab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Remove the olive green colored protective cap by pulling it straight up .
Keep the colored protective cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Prime the bottle for first time use by squeezing 2 drops onto a tissue .
Do not let the bottle tip touch the tissue .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : The bottle is now ready for use .
After use , recap the bottle with the olive green colored protective cap by pushing straight down onto the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] GIVING YOUR DOSE : Step 6 : Turn the bottle upside down a few times before giving your dose to make sure the medicine is mixed well .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Instill one drop in the affected eye .
Replace the olive green colored protective cap .
How do I store RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM ?
• Store RESTASIS MULTIDOSETM between 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
KeepRESTASIS MULTIDOSETM and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration .
© 2016 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . All trademarks are the property of their respective owners . Patented : See : www . allergan . com / products / patents Made in Ireland .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Approved : 10 / 2016 72843US12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Restasis Multidose Carton Label Allergan ™ NDC 0023 - 5301 - 05 Restasis MultiDose ™ ( Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion ) 0 . 05 % For Topical Application In the Eye PRIOR TO FIRST USE , PLEASE READ BOTTLE PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS Sterile , 5 . 5 mL Preservative - Free Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
