active ingredient Hydrogen peroxide 150 mg / 10 mL Purpose Oral debriding agent / Oral wound cleanser Uses • aids in the removal of phlgem , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth • for temporary use in cleansing minor wounds or minor gum inflammation resulting from minor dental procedures , dentures , orthodontic appliances , acidental injury , or other irritations of the mouth and gums • for temporary use to cleanse canker sores • assists in the removal of foreign material from minor oral wounds Warnings For this product Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days : if irritation , pain , or redenss persists or worsens ; or if swelling , rash or fever develops , see your dentist or doctor promptly When using this product do not swallow Keep out of reach of children If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : rinse two teaspoons ( 10 mL ) around the mouth for at least 1 minute , then spit out • use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or physician • children under 12 should be supervised in the use of the product • children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor other information store at controlled room temperature 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , propylene glcol , poloxamer 338 , polysorbate 20 , flavor , sodium saccharin , blue 1 Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Colgate Oral Pharmaceuticals , distributor of Colgate Peroxyl Mouth Sore Rinse Alcohol - Free Mild Mint Adverse Reactions Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 2015 CVS / Pharmacy CVS . com 1 - 800 - shop CVS Made in the U . S . A . with U . S . and Foreign Parts CVS Quality Money Back Guarantee Please Recycle 462 . 002 / 462 AA rev 1 principal display panel CVS Health Compare to the active ingredient in Colgate Peroxyl Oral Cleanser Alcohol Free Peroxide Sore Mouth Cleanser HYDROGEN PEROXIDE 1 . 5 % • Oral debriding agent • Oral antiseptic • Helps reduce bacteria to promote better oral health Soothing Mint Sealed with printed neckband for your protection .
Do not use if broken or missing .
8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
