1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NAGLAZYME is indicated for patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI ( MPS VI , Maroteaux - Lamy syndrome ) .
NAGLAZYME has been shown to improve walking and stair - climbing capacity .
NAGLAZYME is a hydrolytic lysosomal glycosaminoglycan ( GAG ) - specific enzyme indicated for patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI ( MPS VI ; Maroteaux - Lamy syndrome ) .
NAGLAZYME has been shown to improve walking and stair - climbing capacity ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 1 mg per kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous infusion ( 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dosage regimen of NAGLAZYME is 1 mg per kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous infusion .
Pretreatment with antihistamines with or without antipyretics is recommended 30 to 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ] .
The total volume of the infusion should be delivered over a period of time of no less than 4 hours .
NAGLAZYME should be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to a final volume of 250 mL and delivered by controlled intravenous infusion using an infusion pump .
The initial infusion rate should be 6 mL per hour for the first hour .
If the infusion is well tolerated , the rate of infusion may be increased to 80 mL per hour for the remaining 3 hours .
The infusion time can be extended up to 20 hours if infusion reactions occur .
For patients 20 kg and under or those who are susceptible to fluid volume overload , physicians may consider diluting NAGLAZYME in a volume of 100 mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The infusion rate ( mL per hour ) should be decreased so that the total infusion duration remains no less than 4 hours .
Each vial of NAGLAZYME provides 5 mg of galsulfase ( expressed as protein content ) in 5 mL of solution and is intended for single use only .
Do not use the vial more than one time .
The concentrated solution for infusion must be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , using aseptic techniques .
Prepare NAGLAZYME using low - protein - binding containers and administer the diluted NAGLAZYME solution to patients using a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with a low - protein - binding 0 . 2 µm in - line filter .
There is no information on the compatibility of diluted NAGLAZYME with glass containers .
2 . 2 Instructions for Use Prepare and use NAGLAZYME according to the following steps .
Use aseptic techniques .
• Determine the number of vials to be used based on the patient ' s weight and the recommended dose of 1 mg per kg : Patient ' s weight ( kg ) x 1 mL / kg of NAGLAZYME = Total number of mL of NAGLAZYME Total number of mL of NAGLAZYME ÷ 5 mL per vial = Total number of vials Round up to the next whole vial .
Remove the required number of vials from the refrigerator to allow them to reach room temperature .
Do not allow vials to remain at room temperature longer than 24 hours prior to dilution .
Do not heat or microwave vials .
• Before withdrawing the NAGLAZYME solution from the vial , visually inspect each vial for particulate matter and discoloration .
The NAGLAZYME solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to pale yellow .
Some translucency may be present in the solution .
Do not use if the solution is discolored or if there is particulate matter in the solution .
• From a 250 mL infusion bag of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , withdraw and discard a volume equal to the volume of NAGLAZYME solution to be added .
If using a 100 mL infusion bag , this step is not necessary .
• Slowly withdraw the calculated volume of NAGLAZYME from the appropriate number of vials using caution to avoid excessive agitation .
Do not use a filter needle , as this may cause agitation .
Agitation may denature NAGLAZYME , rendering it biologically inactive .
• Slowly add the NAGLAZYME solution to the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , using care to avoid agitation of the solutions .
Do not use a filter needle .
• Gently rotate the infusion bag to ensure proper distribution of NAGLAZYME .
Do not shake the solution .
• Administer the diluted NAGLAZYME solution to patients using a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with a low - protein - binding 0 . 2 µm in - line filter .
NAGLAZYME does not contain preservatives ; therefore , after dilution with saline , the infusion bags should be used immediately .
If immediate use is not possible , the diluted solution must be stored refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) and administered within 48 hours from the time of dilution to completion of administration .
Other than during infusion , do not store the diluted NAGLAZYME solution at room temperature .
Any unused product or waste material must be discarded and disposed of in accordance with local requirements .
NAGLAZYME must not be infused with other products in the infusion tubing .
The compatibility of NAGLAZYME in solution with other products has not been evaluated .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 5 mg / 5 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) as a colorless to pale yellow , clear to slightly opalescent solution single - dose vials Injection : 5 mg / 5 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions : Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have been observed in some patients during NAGLAZYME infusions and up to 24 hours after infusion .
If anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reactions occur , immediately discontinue infusion and initiate appropriate treatment , which may include resuscitation , epinephrine , administering additional antihistamines , antipyretics or corticosteroids ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Immune - mediated Reactions : Immune - mediated reactions can occur with NAGLAZYME .
Monitor patients for the development of immune complex - mediated reactions while receiving NAGLAZYME ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure : Caution should be exercised when administering NAGLAZYME to patients susceptible to fluid volume overload .
Consider a decreased total infusion volume and infusion rate when administering NAGLAZYME to these patients .
Appropriate medical monitoring and support measures should be available during infusion ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) .
• Acute Respiratory Complications : Sleep apnea is common in MPS VI patients and antihistamine pretreatment may increase the risk of apneic episodes .
Appropriate respiratory support should be available during infusion ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Infusion Reactions : Pretreatment with antihistamines with or without antipyretics is recommended prior to the start of infusion to reduce the risk of infusion - reactions .
If infusion reactions occur , decreasing the infusion rate , temporarily stopping the infusion , or administering additional antihistamines and / or antipyretics is recommended ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylaxis and serious hypersensitivity reactions have been observed in patients during and up to 24 hours after NAGLAZYME infusion .
Some of the reactions were life - threatening and included anaphylaxis , shock , respiratory distress , dyspnea , bronchospasm , laryngeal edema , and hypotension [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
If anaphylaxis or other serious hypersensitivity reactions occur , NAGLAZYME should be immediately discontinued , and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated .
In patients who have experienced anaphylaxis or other serious hypersensitivity reactions during infusion with NAGLAZYME , caution should be exercised upon rechallenge ; appropriately trained personnel and equipment for emergency resuscitation ( including epinephrine ) should be available during infusion .
5 . 2 Immune - Mediated Reactions Type III immune complex - mediated reactions , including membranous glomerulonephritis have been observed with NAGLAZYME , as with other enzyme replacement therapies .
If immune - mediated reactions occur , discontinuation of the administration of NAGLAZYME should be considered , and appropriate medical treatment initiated .
The risks and benefits of re - administering NAGLAZYME following an immune - mediated reaction should be considered .
Some patients have successfully been rechallenged and have continued to receive NAGLAZYME under close clinical supervision [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure Caution should be exercised when administering NAGLAZYME to patients susceptible to fluid volume overload , such as patients weighing 20 kg or less , patients with acute underlying respiratory illness , or patients with compromised cardiac and / or respiratory function , because congestive heart failure may result .
Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available during NAGLAZYME infusion , and some patients may require prolonged observation times that should be based on the individual needs of the patient [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Acute Respiratory Complications Associated with Administration Sleep apnea is common in MPS VI patients and antihistamine pretreatment may increase the risk of apneic episodes .
Evaluation of airway patency should be considered prior to initiation of treatment .
Patients using supplemental oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure ( CPAP ) during sleep should have these treatments readily available during infusion in the event of an infusion reaction , or extreme drowsiness / sleep induced by antihistamine use .
Consider delaying NAGLAZYME infusions in patients who present with an acute febrile or respiratory illness because of the possibility of acute respiratory compromise during infusion of NAGLAZYME .
5 . 5 Infusion Reactions Because of the potential for infusion reactions , patients should receive antihistamines with or without antipyretics prior to infusion .
Despite routine pretreatment with antihistamines , infusion reactions , some severe , occurred in 33 of 59 ( 56 % ) patients treated with NAGLAZYME .
Serious adverse reactions during infusion included laryngeal edema , apnea , pyrexia , urticaria , respiratory distress , angioedema , and anaphylactoid reaction .
Severe adverse reactions included urticaria , chest pain , rash , dyspnea , apnea , laryngeal edema , and conjunctivitis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
The most common symptoms of drug - related infusion reactions were pyrexia , chills , rash , urticaria , dyspnea , nausea , vomiting , pruritis , erythema , abdominal pain , hypertension , and headache .
Respiratory distress , chest pain , hypotension , angioedema , conjunctivitis , tremor , and cough were also reported .
Infusion reactions began as early as Week 1 and as late as Week 146 of NAGLAZYME treatment .
Twenty - three of 33 patients ( 70 % ) experienced recurrent infusion reactions during multiple infusions though not always in consecutive weeks .
Symptoms typically abated with slowing or temporary interruption of the infusion and administration of additional antihistamines , antipyretics , and occasionally corticosteroids .
Most patients were able to complete their infusions .
Subsequent infusions were managed with a slower rate of NAGLAZYME administration , treatment with additional prophylactic antihistamines , and , in the event of a more severe reaction , treatment with prophylactic corticosteroids .
If severe infusion reactions occur , immediately discontinue the infusion of NAGLAZYME and initiate appropriate treatment .
The risks and benefits of re - administering NAGLAZYME following a severe reaction should be considered .
No factors were identified that predisposed patients to infusion reactions .
There was no association between severity of infusion reactions and titer of anti - galsulfase antibodies .
5 . 6 Spinal or Cervical Cord Compression Spinal or cervical cord compression ( SCC ) with resultant myelopathy is a known and serious complication of MPS VI .
SCC is expected to occur in the natural history of the disease , including in patients on NAGLAZYME .
There have been post - marketing reports of patients treated with NAGLAZYME who experienced the onset or worsening of SCC requiring decompression surgery .
Patients with MPS VI should be monitored for signs and symptoms of spinal / cervical cord compression ( including back pain , paralysis of limbs below the level of compression , urinary and fecal incontinence ) and given appropriate clinical care .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious and or clinically significant adverse reactions described elsewhere in labeling include : • Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Immune - Mediated Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Acute Respiratory Complications Associated with Administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Infusion Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Spinal or Cervical Cord Compression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) are : rash , pain , urticaria , pyrexia , pruritus , chills , headache , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and dyspnea .
The most common adverse reactions requiring interventions are infusion - related reactions ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc . at 1 - 866 - 906 - 6100 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or go to www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates observed in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
NAGLAZYME was studied in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in which 19 patients received weekly infusions of 1 mg / kg NAGLAZYME and 20 patients received placebo ; of the 39 patients 66 % were female , and 62 % were White , non - Hispanic .
Patients were aged 5 years to 29 years .
NAGLAZYME - treated patients were approximately 3 years older than placebo - treated patients ( mean age 13 . 7 years versus 10 . 7 years , respectively ) .
Serious adverse reactions experienced in this trial include apnea , pyrexia , and respiratory distress .
Severe adverse reactions include chest pain , dyspnea , laryngeal edema , and conjunctivitis .
The most common adverse reactions requiring interventions were infusion reactions .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in the placebo - controlled trial in at least 2 patients more in the NAGLAZYME ‑ treated group than in the placebo - treated group .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions that Occurred in the Placebo - Controlled Trial in at least 2 Patients More in the NAGLAZYME Group than in the Placebo GroupMedDRA Preferred Term NAGLAZYME ( n = 19 ) Placebo ( n = 20 [ 1 ] ) No .
Patients ( % ) No .
Patients ( % ) All 19 ( 100 ) 20 ( 100 ) Abdominal Pain 9 ( 47 ) 7 ( 35 ) Ear Pain 8 ( 42 ) 4 ( 20 ) Arthralgia 8 ( 42 ) 5 ( 25 ) Pain 6 ( 32 ) 1 ( 5 ) Conjunctivitis 4 ( 21 ) 0 Dyspnea 4 ( 21 ) 2 ( 10 ) Rash 4 ( 21 ) 2 ( 10 ) Chills 4 ( 21 ) 0 Chest Pain 3 ( 16 ) 1 ( 5 ) Pharyngitis 2 ( 11 ) 0 Areflexia 2 ( 11 ) 0 Corneal Opacity 2 ( 11 ) 0 Gastroenteritis 2 ( 11 ) 0 Hypertension 2 ( 11 ) 0 Malaise 2 ( 11 ) 0 Nasal Congestion 2 ( 11 ) 0 Umbilical Hernia 2 ( 11 ) 0 Hearing Impairment 2 ( 11 ) 0 [ 1 ] One of the 20 patients in the placebo group dropped out after Week 4 infusion Four open - label clinical trials were conducted in MPS VI patients aged 3 months to 29 years with NAGLAZYME administered at doses of 0 . 2 mg / kg ( n = 2 ) , 1 mg / kg ( n = 55 ) , and 2 mg / kg ( n = 2 ) .
The mean exposure to the recommended dose of NAGLAZYME ( 1 mg / kg ) was 138 weeks ( range = 54 to 261 weeks ) .
Two infants ( 12 . 1 months and 12 . 7 months ) were exposed to 2 mg / kg of NAGLAZYME for 105 and 81 weeks , respectively .
In addition to those listed in Table 1 , common adverse reactions observed in the open - label trials include pruritus , urticaria , pyrexia , headache , nausea , and vomiting .
The most common adverse reactions requiring interventions were infusion reactions .
Serious adverse reactions included laryngeal edema , urticaria , angioedema , and other hypersensitivity reactions .
Severe adverse reactions included urticaria , rash , and abdominal pain .
Observed adverse events in four open - label studies ( up to 261 weeks treatment ) were not different in nature or severity to those observed in the placebo - controlled study .
No patients discontinued during open - label treatment with NAGLAZYME due to adverse events .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all the therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibodies in an assay may be influenced by several factors including sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other galsulfase products may be misleading .
Ninety - eight percent ( 53 / 54 ) of patients treated with NAGLAZYME and evaluable for the presence of antibodies to galsulfase developed anti - galsulfase IgG antibodies within 4 to 8 weeks of treatment ( in four clinical studies ) .
In 19 patients treated with NAGLAZYME from the placebo - controlled study , serum samples were evaluated for a potential relationship of anti - galsulfase antibody development to clinical outcome measures .
All 19 patients treated with NAGLAZYME developed antibodies specific to galsulfase ; however , the analysis revealed no consistent predictive relationship between total antibody titer , neutralizing or IgE antibodies , and infusion ‑ associated reactions , urinary glycosaminoglycan ( GAG ) levels , or endurance measures .
Antibodies were assessed for the ability to inhibit enzymatic activity but not cellular uptake .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of NAGLAZYME .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Serious infusion reactions : anaphylaxis , shock , hypotension , bronchospasm , and respiratory failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Additional infusion reactions : pyrexia , erythema , pallor , bradycardia , tachycardia , hypoxia , cyanosis , tachypnea , and paresthesia .
During postmarketing surveillance , there has been a single case of membranous nephropathy and rare cases of thrombocytopenia reported .
In the case of membranous nephropathy , renal biopsy revealed galsulfase ‑ immunoglobulin complexes in the glomeruli .
With both membranous nephropathy and thrombocytopenia , patients have been successfully rechallenged and have continued to receive NAGLAZYME .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from case reports and postmarketing experience with NAGLAZYME use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , galsulfase administered intravenously to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis , showed no evidence of harm to the fetus at doses of about 0 . 5 and 0 . 97 times , respectively for rats and rabbits , the recommended human dose of 1 mg / kg based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and embryo / fetal risk Pregnancy can exacerbate preexisting clinical manifestations of MPS and lead to adverse pregnancy outcomes for both mother and fetus .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed with intravenous galsulfase during the period of organogenesis in pregnant rats at doses of galsulfase up to 3 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 5 times the recommended human dose of 1 mg / kg based on the body surface area ) and in pregnant rabbits at doses up to 3 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 97 times the recommended human dose of 1 mg / kg based on the body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to galsulfase .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of galsulfase in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for NAGLAZYME and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from NAGLAZYME or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Clinical studies with NAGLAZYME were conducted in 56 patients , ages 5 to 29 years , with the majority of these patients in the pediatric age group [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In addition , an open - label study was conducted in four infants ( 3 months to 12 . 7 months ) treated with 1 mg / kg ( n = 2 ) or 2 mg / kg ( n = 2 ) of NAGLAZYME .
Safety results in infants were consistent with results observed in patients 5 to 29 years old [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of NAGLAZYME did not include patients older than 29 years of age .
It is not known whether older patients respond differently from younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION NAGLAZYME is a formulation of galsulfase , which is a purified human enzyme that is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line .
Galsulfase ( glycosaminoglycan N – acetylgalactosamine 4 - sulfatase , EC 3 . 1 . 6 . 12 ) is a lysosomal enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of the sulfate ester from terminal N – acetylgalactosamine 4 - sulfate residues of glycosaminoglycans ( GAG ) , chondroitin 4 - sulfate and dermatan sulfate .
Galsulfase is a glycoprotein with a molecular weight of approximately 56 kDa .
The recombinant protein consists of 495 amino acids and possesses six asparagine ‑ linked glycosylation sites , four of which carry a bis ‑ mannose – 6 – phosphate residue for specific cellular recognition .
Post - translational modification of Cys53 produces the catalytic amino acid residue , Cα - formylglycine , which is required for enzyme activity .
NAGLAZYME has a specific activity of approximately 70 units per mg of protein content .
One activity unit is defined as the amount of enzyme required to convert 1 micromole of 4 - methylumbelliferyl sulfate to 4 - methylumbelliferone and free sulfate per minute at 37 ° C . NAGLAZYME is intended for intravenous infusion and is supplied as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , colorless to pale yellow , clear to slightly opalescent solution that must be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , prior to administration .
NAGLAZYME is supplied in clear Type I glass 5 mL vials .
Each vial provides 5 mg galsulfase , 43 . 8 mg sodium chloride , 6 . 20 mg sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , 1 . 34 mg sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate , and 0 . 25 mg polysorbate 80 in a 5 mL extractable solution with pH of approximately 5 . 8 .
NAGLAZYME does not contain preservatives .
Each vial is for single use only .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mucopolysaccharide storage disorders are caused by the deficiency of specific lysosomal enzymes required for the catabolism of GAG .
MPS VI is characterized by the absence or marked reduction in N – acetylgalactosamine 4 - sulfatase .
The sulfatase activity deficiency results in the accumulation of the GAG substrate , dermatan sulfate , throughout the body .
This accumulation leads to widespread cellular , tissue , and organ dysfunction .
NAGLAZYME is intended to provide an exogenous enzyme that will be taken up into lysosomes and increase the catabolism of GAG .
Galsulfase uptake by cells into lysosomes is most likely mediated by the binding of mannose - 6 - phosphate - terminated oligosaccharide chains of galsulfase to specific mannose - 6 - phosphate receptors .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The responsiveness of urinary GAG to dosage alterations of NAGLAZYME is unknown , and the relationship of urinary GAG to other measures of clinical response has not been established .
No association was observed between antibody development and urinary GAG levels [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic parameters of galsulfase were evaluated in 13 patients with MPS VI who received 1 mg / kg of NAGLAZYME as a weekly 4 - hour infusion for 24 weeks .
The pharmacokinetic parameters at Week 1 and Week 24 are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Median , Range ) of Galsulfase in Patients with MPS VIPharmacokinetic Parameter Week 1 Week 24 Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 0 . 8 ( 0 . 4 to 1 . 3 ) 1 . 5 ( 0 . 2 to 5 . 5 ) AUC0 - t ( hr • mcg / mL ) [ 1 ] 2 . 3 ( 1 . 0 to 3 . 5 ) 4 . 3 ( 0 . 3 to 14 . 2 ) Vz ( mL / kg ) 103 ( 56 to 323 ) 69 ( 59 to 2 , 799 ) CL ( mL / kg / min ) 7 . 2 ( 4 . 7 to 10 . 5 ) 3 . 7 ( 1 . 1 to 55 . 9 ) Half - life ( min ) 9 ( 6 to 21 ) 26 ( 8 to 40 ) [ 1 ] Area under the plasma galsulfase concentration - time curve from start of infusion to 60 minutes post infusion .
Galsulfase pharmacokinetic parameters listed in Table 2 require cautious interpretation because of large assay variability .
Development of anti - galsulfase antibodies appears to affect galsulfase pharmacokinetics , however , the data are limited .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential or studies to evaluate mutagenic potential have not been performed with galsulfase .
Galsulfase at intravenous doses up to 3 . 0 mg / kg ( about 0 . 5 times the recommended human dose of 1 mg / kg based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on the fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A total of 56 patients with MPS VI , ages 5 years to 29 years , were enrolled in four clinical studies .
The majority of patients had severe manifestations of the disease as evidenced by poor performance on a test of physical endurance .
In the randomized , double - blind , multicenter , placebo - controlled clinical trial , 38 patients with MPS VI received 1 mg / kg NAGLAZYME or placebo , once - weekly for 24 weeks .
The patients ’ ages ranged from 5 to 29 years .
Enrollment was restricted to patients with a 12 ‑ minute walk distance of 5 to 400 meters .
All patients were treated with antihistamines prior to each infusion .
The NAGLAZYME - treated group showed greater mean increases in the distance walked in 12 minutes ( 12 ‑ minute walk test , 12 ‑ MWT ) and in the rate of stair climbing in a 3 - minute stair climb test , compared with the placebo group ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Results from Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study NAGLAZYME Placebo NAGLAZYME vs . Placebo Baseline Week 24 Change Baseline Week 24 Change Difference in Changes N 19 19 19 20 19 [ 1 ] 19 Results from the 12 - Minute Walk Test ( Meters ) Mean ± SD Median Percentiles ( 25 th , 75 th ) 227 ± 170 210 90 , 330 336 ± 227 316 125 , 483 109 ± 154 48 7 , 183 381 ± 202 365 256 , 560 399 ± 217 373 204 , 573 26 ± 122 34 – 3 , 89 83 ± 45 [ 2 ] 92 ± 40 [ 3 ] ( p = 0 . 025 ) null [ 4 ] Results from 3 - Minute Stair Climb Test ( Stairs / Minute ) Mean ± SD Median Percentiles ( 25 th , 75 th ) 19 . 4 ± 12 . 9 16 . 7 10 . 0 , 26 . 3 26 . 9 ± 16 . 8 22 . 8 14 . 8 , 33 . 0 7 . 4 ± 9 . 9 5 . 2 2 . 2 , 9 . 9 31 . 0 ± 18 . 1 24 . 7 18 . 1 , 51 . 5 32 . 6 ± 19 . 6 29 . 0 14 . 2 , 57 . 9 2 . 7 ± 6 . 9 4 . 3 1 . 0 , 6 . 2 4 . 7 ± 2 . 8 null 5 . 7 ± 2 . 9 null ( p = 0 . 053 ) null null [ 1 ] One patient in the placebo group dropped out after 4 weeks of infusion [ 2 ] Observed mean of NAGLAZYME - Placebo ± SE [ 3 ] Model - based mean of NAGLAZYME - Placebo ± SE , adjusted for baseline [ 4 ] p - value based on the model - based mean difference Following the 24 - week placebo - controlled study period , 38 patients received open - label NAGLAZYME for 72 weeks .
Among the 19 patients who were initially randomized to NAGLAZYME and who continued to receive treatment for 72 weeks ( total of 96 weeks ) , increases in the 12 - MWT distance and in the rate of stair climbing were observed compared to the start of the open - label period ( mean [ ± SD ] change ) : 72 ± 116 meters and 5 . 6 ± 10 . 6 stairs / minute , respectively ) .
Among the 19 patients who were randomized initially to placebo for 24 weeks , and then crossed over to treatment with NAGLAZYME , the increases after 72 weeks of NAGLAZYME treatment compared to the start of the open - label period , ( mean [ ± SD ] change ) : were 118 ± 127 meters and 11 . 1 ± 10 . 0 stairs / minute , for the 12 - MWT and the rate of stair climbing , respectively .
Bioactivity was evaluated with urinary GAG concentration .
Overall , 95 % of patients showed at least a 50 % reduction in urinary GAG levels after 72 weeks of treatment with NAGLAZYME .
No patient receiving NAGLAZYME reached the normal range for urinary GAG levels [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
In an additional open - label extension study , patients receiving NAGLAZYME showed maintenance of initial improvement in endurance for approximately 240 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NAGLAZYME injection is supplied as a sterile colorless to pale yellow , clear to slightly opalescent solution in clear Type I glass 5 mL vials , containing 5 mg galsulfase ( expressed as protein content ) per 5 mL solution .
The closure consists of a siliconized chlorobutyl rubber stopper and an aluminum seal with a plastic flip - off cap .
NDC 68135 - 020 - 01 , 5 mL vial Store NAGLAZYME under refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze or shake .
Protect from light .
This product contains no preservatives .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Anaphylaxis , Hypersensitivity and Infusion Reactions Inform the patient or caregiver that hypersensitivity reactions , including life - threatening anaphylaxis , and infusion reactions may occur with NAGLAZYME treatment .
Advise the patient or caregiver to report immediately to a healthcare provider if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or infusion reaction occur during infusion of NAGLAZYME .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Cardiac and Respiratory Adverse Reactions Advise the patient or caregiver to report immediately to a healthcare provider if signs or symptoms of cardiac or respiratory decompensation occur during or following an infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] Inform patients using supplemental oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure ( CPAP ) during sleep to have these treatments readily available during infusion or extreme drowsiness / sleep induced by antihistamine use .
NAGLAZYME is manufactured and distributed by : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
Novato , CA 94949 US License Number 1649 1 - 866 - 906 - 6100 ( phone ) NAGLAZYME ® is a registered trademark of BioMarin .
Packaging Components NDC 68135 - 020 - 01 Naglazyme ® ( GALSULFASE ) 5 mg / 5 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) Concentrated Solution For Intravenous Infusion Only Must be diluted prior to use .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
