Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 15 % ........................................................................................................................... Topical analgesic Purpose Arthritis Pain Relief Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains warnings For external use only Do Not Use on wounds , damaged , broken or irritated skin When using this product use only as directed do not bandage tightly or cover treated area do not use with a heating pad do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days if severe burning sensation occurs , discontinue use immediately and read inside of carton for important information do not expose the area treated with product to heat or direct sunlight Stop use and ask a doctor if condition gets worse redness is present irritation develops symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or beast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions apply to affected area place applicator on skin , press firmly and hold to activate the dispensing of liquid massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed repeat as necessary , but no more than 3 to 4 times daily if medicine comes in contact with hands , wash with soap and water storage Store between 20 ° C and 25 ° C ( 68 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
Close cap tightly after use .
PLEASE READ AND KEEP THESE DIRECTIOINS What is capsaicin ?
Capsaicin , a naturally occuring substance derived from hot peppers , is a safe and effective topical analgesic for arthritis pain .
What does capsaicin do ?
When applied to the affected area , capsaicin penetrates deep and specically targets pain transmitting neurons by progressively deteriorating their ability to signal pain to the brain , effectively relieving minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , sprains and bruises .
When used every day , as directed , the effectiveness of capsaicin continues to build more and more .
The amount of time required for pain relief to occur varies with each person .
Some arthritis sufferers may obtain relief within the rst week of use , while others may experience relief later .
This product can be used for all types of arthritis .
Are there any side effects ?
Due to the nature of capsaicin , a mild tolerable burning and / or itching sensation may be experienced when the product is applied which may last up to 48 hours .
This mild burning and / or itching sensation typically diminishes with continued use , and is not a reason to discontinue using this product .
Severe discomfort has been reported in some individuals .
If severe burning and / or itching occurs , discontinue use immediately and remove excess product by thoroughly washing with soap and cold water .
If regular soap and water does not completely wash away the residue , try using dishwashing liquid or cooking oil at room temperature .
This discomfort can be expected to subside completely .
If you experience blistering , or signicant improvement does not occur , stop use and contact your doctor .
Warm or hot water , direct sunlight or exposure to heat may increase the likelihood of burning and itching .
Therefore , do not apply immediately before or after activities such as bathing , swimming , using a hot tub , sunbathing or exposure to heat .
• If you are a rst time user and think your skin might be sensitive to capsaicin , test it on a small area rst .
• Children 18 years of age or younger : consult a doctor before using .
• Wear gloves to apply or , if medicine comes in contact with hands , wash with soap and water after applying to avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive areas of the body .
Try using dishwashing liquid or cooking oil at room temperature if regular soap and water does not completely wash the product from your hands .
If product gets into the eyes , ush with water .
• Apply to affected area and using the applicator , press rmly on skin and hold to activate the dispensing of liquid .
Massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed .
• If you are using capsaicin on your hands , allow 30 minutes for it to penetrate before washing .
During this time avoid touching damaged or irritated skin and avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes .
After 30 minutes , wash hands with soap and water .
• If you wear contact lenses , avoid touching them after applying this product .
Handle lenses before use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive ingredients carbomer 940 , glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 40 % ) , trolamine principal display panel CVS Health Deep Penetrating Capsaicin0 . 15 % ARTHRITIS PAIN RELIEF • Topical analgesic liquid • High potency • Odor free Compare to the active ingredient in Capzasin ™ * No Touch Applicator [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
