Capzasin HP Arthritis Pain Relief Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 1 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor pain of muscles and joints associated with : • arthritis • simple backache • strains • sprains • bruises Warnings For external use only When using this product • read inside of carton before using • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton / label .
• avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) or a medicated patch to the area of use • do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • if severe burning occurs , discontinue use immediately and read inside carton for important information • do not expose the area treated with product to heat or direct sunlight • avoid applying into skin folds Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children over 18 years : • apply to affected area • massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed • repeat as necessary , but no more than 3 to 4 times daily • WASH HANDS WITH SOAP AND WATER AFTER APPLYING children 18 years or younger : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl myristate , PEG - 40 stearate , petrolatum , sorbitol , water ( 238 - 10 ) READ INFORMATION PRINTED INSIDE CARTON BEFORE USING .
KEEP CARTON AS IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION . Recyclable Carton Dist .
by Chattem , Inc . , P . O . Box 2219 Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 U . S . A . © 2009 www . chattem . com Principal Display Panel Deep Penetrating Odor Free HIGH POTENCY CAPZASINHP ® ARTHRITIS PAIN RELIEF CAPSAICIN 0 . 1 % TOPICAL ANALGESIC CREME Net wt 1 . 5 oz ( 42 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
