Active ingredient Purpose Camphor 4 . 8 % ............................................. Cough suppressant and topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % ...................................... Cough suppressant Menthol 2 . 6 % ...............................................
Cough suppressant and topical analgesic Uses - on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold - on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses - on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold - on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with the eyes Do not use - by mouth - with tight bandages - in nostrils - on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have - cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) - Persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not - heat - microwave - add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if - muscles aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back - cough lasts more then 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions see important warnings under " When using this product " - adults and children 2 years and over : rub a thick layer on chest and throat or rub on sore aching muscles , cover with a warm dry cloth if desired , keep clothing loose about throat . chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth , repeat up to three times per 24 hours or directed by doctor .
- children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive Ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , spirits of turpentine , thymol , white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
