[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue valsartan tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue valsartan tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Valsartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) indicated for : • Hypertension , to lower blood pressure in adults and children 6 years and older .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 . 1 ) • Heart failure ( NYHA class II - IV ) , to reduce hospitalization for heart failure in adults ( 1 . 2 ) • Post - myocardial infarction , for the reduction of cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in adults ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Hypertension Valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure in adults and pediatric patients six years of age and older .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes , including the class to which valsartan principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials in hypertensive patients demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( e . g . , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Valsartan tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
1 . 2 Heart Failure Valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with heart failure ( NYHA class II - IV ) .
There is no evidence that valsartan tablets provides added benefits when it is used with an adequate dose of an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Post - Myocardial Infarction In clinically stable adult patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction , valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range * Hypertension Adults ( 2 . 2 ) 80 - 160 mg once daily 80 - 320 mg once daily 6 - 16 years ( 2 . 3 ) 1 mg / kg once daily Up to 40 mg daily 1 - 4 mg / kg once daily Up to 160 mg daily Heart Failure ( 2 . 4 ) 40 mg twice daily 40 - 160 mg twice daily Post - Myocardial Infarction ( 2 . 5 ) 20 mg twice daily 20 - 160 mg twice daily * As tolerated by patient 2 . 1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information Valsartan tablets and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram - per - milligram basis .
Do not combine two dosage forms to achieve the total dose .
The systemic exposure to valsartan ( AUC ) is 60 % higher with the suspension compared to tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use of the oral suspension is recommended : • in patients ≥ 6 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and • in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose ( mg / kg ) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan tablets .
When switching between suspension and tablets , the dose of valsartan may need to be adjusted .
Preparation of Suspension ( for 160 mL of a 4 mg / mL suspension ) • Add 80 mL of Ora - Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 valsartan 80 mg tablets and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes .
• Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour .
• After the standing time , shake the suspension for a minimum of 1 additional minute .
• Add 80 mL of Ora - Sweet SF ® * oral sweetening vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension for at least 10 seconds to disperse the ingredients .
• The suspension is homogenous and can be stored for either up to 30 days at room temperature ( below 30ºC / 86ºF ) or up to 75 days at refrigerated conditions ( 2ºC to 8ºC / 35ºF to 46ºF ) in the glass bottle with a child - resistant screw - cap closure .
• Shake the bottle well ( at least 10 seconds ) prior to dispensing the suspension .
* Ora - Sweet SF ® and Ora - Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories , Inc .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 . 2 Adult Hypertension The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume - depleted .
Patients requiring greater reductions may be started at the higher dose .
Valsartan tablets may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily , administered once a day .
The antihypertensive effect is substantially present within 2 weeks and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks .
If additional antihypertensive effect is required over the starting dose range , the dose may be increased to a maximum of 320 mg or a diuretic may be added .
Addition of a diuretic has a greater effect than dose increases beyond 80 mg .
Valsartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
2 . 3 Pediatric Hypertension 6 to 16 Years of Age The usual recommended starting dose is 1 mg / kg once daily ( up to 40 mg total ) .
A higher starting dose of 2 mg / kg may be considered in selected cases when a greater reduction of blood pressure is needed .
The dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response and tolerability , up to a maximum dose of 4 mg / kg once daily ( maximum daily dose 160 mg ) .
No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Use of valsartan tablets is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Pediatric Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 . 4 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 40 mg twice daily .
Uptitrate to 80 mg and 160 mg twice daily or to the highest dose tolerated by the patient .
Consider reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics .
The maximum daily dose administered in clinical trials is 320 mg in divided doses .
2 . 5 Post - Myocardial Infarction Valsartan tablets may be initiated as early as 12 hours after a myocardial infarction .
The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 20 mg twice daily .
Patients may be uptitrated within 7 days to 40 mg twice daily , with subsequent titrations to a target maintenance dose of 160 mg twice daily , as tolerated by the patient .
If symptomatic hypotension or renal dysfunction occurs , consider dosage reduction .
Valsartan tablets may be given with other standard post - myocardial infarction treatment , including thrombolytics , aspirin , beta - blockers , and statins .
2 . 6 Missed Dose If a dose of valsartan tablets is missed , it should be administered as soon as possible , unless it is almost time for the next dose .
The dose should not be doubled to make up for a missed dose .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS 40 mg are yellow oval shaped biconvex film coated scored tablets debossed with “ L12 ” on either side of break line on one side and plain on other side .
80 mg are pale red oval shaped biconvex film coated tablets debossed with “ L13 ” on one side and plain on other side .
160 mg are grey - orange oval shaped biconvex film coated tablets debossed with “ L14 ” on one side and plain on other side .
320 mg are dark grey - violet oval shaped biconvex film coated tablets debossed with “ L15 ” on one side and plain on other side .
Tablets ( mg ) : 40 ( scored ) , 80 , 160 , 320 ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to any component .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS .
Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension ( 5 . 2 ) .
Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Valsartan can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue valsartan tablets as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension Excessive hypotension was rarely seen ( 0 . 1 % ) in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with valsartan alone .
In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients receiving high doses of diuretics , symptomatic hypotension may occur .
This condition should be corrected prior to administration of valsartan , or the treatment should start under close medical supervision .
Patients with heart failure or post - myocardial infarction patients given valsartan commonly have some reduction in blood pressure , but discontinuation of therapy because of continuing symptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed .
In controlled trials in heart failure patients , the incidence of hypotension in valsartan - treated patients was 5 . 5 % compared to 1 . 8 % in placebo - treated patients .
In the VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion trial ( VALIANT ) , hypotension in post - myocardial infarction patients led to permanent discontinuation of therapy in 1 . 4 % of valsartan - treated patients and 0 . 8 % of captopril - treated patients .
If excessive hypotension occurs , place the patient in the supine position and , if necessary , give intravenous normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system and by diuretics .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on valsartan .
Monitor renal function periodically in these patients .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on valsartan [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hyperkalemia Some patients with heart failure have developed increases in potassium .
These effects are usually minor and transient , and they are more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuation of valsartan tablets may be required [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension : Most common adverse reactions are headache , dizziness , viral infection , fatigue and abdominal pain ( 6 . 1 ) Heart Failure : Most common adverse reactions are dizziness , hypotension , diarrhea , arthralgia , back pain , fatigue and hyperkalemia ( 6 . 1 ) Post - Myocardial Infarction : Most common adverse reactions which caused patients to discontinue therapy are hypotension , cough and increased blood creatinine ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Macleods Pharma USA , Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 943 - 3210 or 1 - 855 - 926 - 3384 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adult Hypertension Valsartan has been evaluated for safety in more than 4 , 000 patients , including over 400 treated for over 6 months , and more than 160 for over 1 year .
Adverse reactions have generally been mild and transient in nature and have only infrequently required discontinuation of therapy .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions with valsartan was similar to placebo .
The overall frequency of adverse reactions was neither dose - related nor related to gender , age , race , or regimen .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in 2 . 3 % of valsartan patients and 2 . 0 % of placebo patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with valsartan were headache and dizziness .
The adverse reactions that occurred in placebo - controlled clinical trials in at least 1 % of patients treated with valsartan and at a higher incidence in valsartan ( n = 2 , 316 ) than placebo ( n = 888 ) patients included viral infection ( 3 % vs . 2 % ) , fatigue ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) , and abdominal pain ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) .
In trials in which valsartan was compared to an ACE inhibitor with or without placebo , the incidence of dry cough was significantly greater in the ACE - inhibitor group ( 7 . 9 % ) than in the groups who received valsartan ( 2 . 6 % ) or placebo ( 1 . 5 % ) .
In a 129 - patient trial limited to patients who had had dry cough when they had previously received ACE inhibitors , the incidences of cough in patients who received valsartan , HCTZ , or lisinopril were 20 % , 19 % , and 69 % respectively ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Dose - related orthostatic effects were seen in less than 1 % of patients .
An increase in the incidence of dizziness was observed in patients treated with valsartan 320 mg ( 8 % ) compared to 10 to 160 mg ( 2 % to 4 % ) .
Pediatric Hypertension Valsartan has been evaluated for safety in over 400 patients aged 6 to 17 years .
No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients and that previously reported for adult patients .
Hyperkalemia was more frequently observed in pediatric patients with underlying chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) .
Heart Failure In the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial ( Val - HeFT ) , comparing valsartan in total daily doses up to 320 mg ( n = 2 , 506 ) to placebo ( n = 2 , 494 ) , 10 % of valsartan patients discontinued for adverse reactions vs . 7 % of placebo patients .
The table shows adverse reactions in double - blind short - term heart failure trials , including the first 4 months of the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , with an incidence of at least 2 % that were more frequent in valsartan - treated patients than in placebo - treated patients .
All patients received standard drug therapy for heart failure , frequently as multiple medications , which could include diuretics , digitalis , beta - blockers .
About 93 % of patients received concomitant ACE inhibitors .
Valsartan ( n = 3 , 282 ) Placebo ( n = 2 , 740 ) Dizziness 17 % 9 % Hypotension 7 % 2 % Diarrhea 5 % 4 % Arthralgia 3 % 2 % Fatigue 3 % 2 % Back Pain 3 % 2 % Dizziness , postural 2 % 1 % Hyperkalemia 2 % 1 % Hypotension , postural 2 % 1 % Discontinuations occurred in 0 . 5 % of valsartan - treated patients and 0 . 1 % of placebo patients for each of the following : elevations in creatinine and elevations in potassium .
Other adverse reactions with an incidence greater than 1 % and greater than placebo included headache , nausea , renal impairment , syncope , blurred vision , upper abdominal pain and vertigo .
From the long - term data in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , there did not appear to be any significant adverse reactions not previously identified .
Post - Myocardial Infarction The table shows the percentage of patients discontinued in the valsartan and captopril - treated groups in the VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion trial ( VALIANT ) with a rate of at least 0 . 5 % in either of the treatment groups .
Discontinuations due to renal dysfunction occurred in 1 . 1 % of valsartan - treated patients and 0 . 8 % of captopril - treated patients .
Valsartan ( n = 4 , 885 ) Captopril ( n = 4 , 879 ) Discontinuation for adverse reaction 5 . 8 % 7 . 7 % Adverse reactions Hypotension NOS 1 . 4 % 0 . 8 % Cough 0 . 6 % 2 . 5 % Blood creatinine increased 0 . 6 % 0 . 4 % Rash NOS 0 . 2 % 0 . 6 % Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Creatinine : In heart failure trials , greater than 50 % increases in creatinine were observed in 3 . 9 % of valsartan - treated patients compared to 0 . 9 % of placebo - treated patients .
In post - myocardial infarction patients , doubling of serum creatinine was observed in 4 . 2 % of valsartan - treated patients and 3 . 4 % of captopril - treated patients .
Neutropenia : Neutropenia was observed in 1 . 9 % of patients treated with valsartan and 0 . 8 % of patients treated with placebo .
Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) : In heart failure trials , greater than 50 % increases in BUN were observed in 16 . 6 % of valsartan - treated patients compared to 6 . 3 % of placebo - treated patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing use of valsartan tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity : Angioedema has been reported .
Some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs , including ACE inhibitors .
Valsartan tablets should not be re - administered to patients who have had angioedema .
Digestive : Elevated liver enzymes and very rare reports of hepatitis Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis Renal : Impaired renal function , renal failure Dermatologic : Alopecia , bullous dermatitis Blood and Lymphatic : Thrombocytopenia Vascular : Vasculitis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements or salt substitutes may lead to increases in serum potassium , and in heart failure patients , increases in serum creatinine ( 7 . 1 ) • Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7 . 2 ) • Dual inhibition of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 3 ) • Lithium : Increases in serum lithium level and lithium toxicity ( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin - angiotensin system , potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , amiloride ) , potassium supplements , salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels ( e . g . , heparin ) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine .
If co - medication is considered necessary , monitoring of serum potassium is advisable .
7 . 2 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan , may be attenuated by NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
7 . 3 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
7 . 4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) Pediatrics : Use of valsartan tablets is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age ( 6 . 1 , 8 . 4 , 13 . 2 ) Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Valsartan tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Published reports include cases of anhydramnios and oligohydramnios in pregnant women treated with valsartan ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
When pregnancy is detected , consider alternative drug treatment and discontinue valsartan tablets as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension and death .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
In patients taking valsartan tablets during pregnancy , perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of gestation .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
If oligohydramnios is observed , consider alternative drug treatment .
Closely observe neonates with histories of in utero exposure to valsartan tablets for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
In neonates with a history of in utero exposure to valsartan tablets , if oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and replacing renal function .
Data Animal Data No teratogenic effects were observed when valsartan was administered to pregnant mice and rats at oral doses of up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 9 and 18 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) on a mg / m2 basis ) and to pregnant rabbits at oral doses of up to 10 mg / kg / day .
In rats , oral valsartan administered at maternally toxic doses ( 600 mg / kg / day ) during organogenesis or late gestation and lactation , resulted in decreased fetal and pup weight , pup survival and delayed developmental milestones .
In rabbits administered maternally toxic doses of 5 and 10 mg / kg / day , fetotoxicity was observed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of valsartan in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Valsartan is present in rat milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from exposure to valsartan , advise a nursing woman that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with valsartan .
Data Valsartan was detected in the milk of lactating rats 15 minutes after oral administration of a 3 mg / kg dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The antihypertensive effects of valsartan have been evaluated in a clinical study in pediatric patients from 6 - 16 years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of valsartan have been evaluated in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The adverse experience profile of valsartan was similar to that described for adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In children and adolescents with hypertension where underlying renal abnormalities may be more common , renal function and serum potassium should be closely monitored as clinically indicated .
Use of valsartan is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age .
[ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
It is not known whether post - natal use of valsartan , before maturation of renal function is complete , has a long - term deleterious effect on the kidney .
No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials of valsartan , 1 , 214 ( 36 . 2 % ) hypertensive patients treated with valsartan were ≥ 65 years and 265 ( 7 . 9 % ) were ≥ 75 years .
No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of valsartan was observed in this patient population , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Exposure [ measured by area under the curve ( AUC ) ] to valsartan is higher by 70 % in the elderly than in the young , however no dosage adjustment is necessary [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Of the 2 , 511 patients with heart failure randomized to valsartan in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial , 45 % ( 1 , 141 ) were 65 years of age or older .
In the VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion trial ( VALIANT ) , 53 % ( 2 , 596 ) of the 4 , 909 patients treated with valsartan and 51 % ( 2 , 515 ) of the 4 , 885 patients treated with valsartan + captopril were 65 years of age or older .
There were no notable differences in efficacy or safety between older and younger patients in either trial .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Safety and effectiveness of valsartan in patients with severe renal impairment ( glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) have not been established .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild ( glomerular filtration rate 60 to 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) or moderate ( glomerular filtration rate 30 to 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild - to - moderate liver disease .
No dosing recommendations can be provided for patients with severe liver disease .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
Depressed level of consciousness , circulatory collapse and shock have been reported .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , institute supportive treatment .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis .
Valsartan was without grossly observable adverse effects at single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg in rats and up to 1000 mg / kg in marmosets , except for salivation and diarrhea in the rat and vomiting in the marmoset at the highest dose ( 60 and 31 times , respectively , the MRHD dose on a mg / m2 basis ) ( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Valsartan USP is a nonpeptide , orally active , and specific angiotensin II receptor blocker acting on the AT1 receptor subtype .
Valsartan USP is chemically described as N - ( 1 - oxopentyl ) - N - [ [ 2 ' - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) [ 1 , 1 ' - biphenyl ] - 4 - yl ] methyl ] - L - valine .
Its molecular formula is C24H29N5O3 , its molecular weight is 435 . 5 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Valsartan USP is a white to practically white fine powder .
It is soluble in ethanol and methanol and slightly soluble in water .
Valsartan USP is available as tablets for oral administration , containing 40 mg , 80 mg , 160 mg or 320 mg of valsartan .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , iron oxides ( yellow , black and / or red ) , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , talc and titanium dioxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Valsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Valsartan has much greater affinity ( about 20 , 000 - fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
The increased plasma levels of angiotensin II following AT1 receptor blockade with valsartan may stimulate the unblocked AT2 receptor .
The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT1 receptor about one - 200 th ( 1 / 200 th ) that of valsartan itself .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Valsartan inhibits the pressor effect of angiotensin II infusions .
An oral dose of 80 mg inhibits the pressor effect by about 80 % at peak with approximately 30 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
No information on the effect of larger doses is available .
Removal of the negative feedback of angiotensin II causes a 2 - to 3 - fold rise in plasma renin and consequent rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration in hypertensive patients .
Minimal decreases in plasma aldosterone were observed after administration of valsartan ; very little effect on serum potassium was observed .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients with stable renal insufficiency and patients with renovascular hypertension , valsartan had no clinically significant effects on glomerular filtration rate , filtration fraction , creatinine clearance , or renal plasma flow .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients , valsartan had no notable effects on total cholesterol , fasting triglycerides , fasting serum glucose , or uric acid .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In healthy volunteers , valsartan peak plasma concentration is reached 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
Valsartan shows bi - exponential decay kinetics following intravenous administration , with an average elimination half - life of about 6 hours .
Absolute bioavailability for valsartan tablets is about 25 % ( range 10 % to 35 % ) .
The bioavailability of the suspension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] is 1 . 6 times as great as with the tablet .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase approximately linearly with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range ( 80 - 320 mg ) .
Valsartan does not accumulate appreciably in plasma following repeated administration of 200 mg once daily .
In heart failure patients , the average time to peak plasma concentration and elimination half - life of valsartan are similar to those observed in healthy volunteers .
The average accumulation factor is about 1 . 7 in heart failure patients following repeated administration of 160 mg twice daily .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase linearly and are almost proportional with increasing dose from 40 to 160 mg twice a day .
Effect of Food With the tablet , food decreases the exposure ( as measured by AUC ) to valsartan by about 40 % and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) by about 50 % .
Valsartan tablets can be administered with or without food .
Distribution : The steady state volume of distribution of valsartan after intravenous administration is small ( 17 L ) , indicating that valsartan does not distribute into tissues extensively .
Valsartan is highly bound to serum proteins ( 95 % ) , mainly serum albumin .
Metabolism : The primary metabolite , accounting for about 9 % of dose , is valeryl 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
In vitro metabolism studies involving recombinant CYP 450 enzymes indicated that the CYP 2C9 isoenzyme is responsible for the formation of valeryl - 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
Valsartan does not inhibit CYP 450 isozymes at clinically relevant concentrations .
CYP 450 mediated drug interaction between valsartan and coadministered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism .
Excretion Valsartan , when administered as an oral solution , is primarily recovered in feces ( about 83 % of dose ) and urine ( about 13 % of dose ) .
The recovery is mainly as unchanged drug , with only about 20 % of dose recovered as metabolites .
Following intravenous administration , plasma clearance of valsartan is about 2 L / h and its renal clearance is 0 . 62 L / h ( about 30 % of total clearance ) .
The apparent clearance of valsartan following oral administration is approximately 4 . 5 L / h in heart failure patients .
Age does not affect the apparent clearance in heart failure patients .
Specific Populations : Geriatric : Exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan is higher by 70 % and the half - life is longer by 35 % in the elderly than in the young [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric : In a study of pediatric hypertensive patients ( n = 26 , 1 to 16 years of age ) given single doses of a suspension of valsartan tablets ( mean : 0 . 9 to 2 mg / kg ) , the clearance ( L / h / kg ) of valsartan for children was similar to that of adults receiving the same formulation .
Valsartan pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age .
Gender : Pharmacokinetics of valsartan does not differ significantly between males and females .
Renal Insufficiency : There is no apparent correlation between renal function ( measured by creatinine clearance ) and exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan in patients with different degrees of renal impairment ( down to creatinine clearance of 10 mL / min ) .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Insufficiency : On average , patients with mild - to - moderate chronic liver disease have twice the exposure ( measured by AUC values ) to valsartan of healthy volunteers ( matched by age , sex , and weight ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when valsartan was coadministered with amlodipine , atenolol , cimetidine , digoxin , furosemide , glyburide , hydrochlorothiazide , or indomethacin .
The valsartan - atenolol combination was more antihypertensive than either component , but it did not lower the heart rate more than atenolol alone .
Coadministration of valsartan and warfarin did not change the pharmacokinetics of valsartan or the time - course of the anticoagulant properties of warfarin .
Transporters : The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2 .
Coadministration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter ( rifampin , cyclosporine ) or efflux transporter ( ritonavir ) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when valsartan was administered in the diet to mice and rats for up to 2 years at doses up to 160 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses in mice and rats are about 2 . 6 and 6 times , respectively , the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient ) .
Mutagenicity assays did not reveal any valsartan - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
These assays included bacterial mutagenicity tests with Salmonella ( Ames ) and E coli ; a gene mutation test with Chinese hamster V79 cells ; a cytogenetic test with Chinese hamster ovary cells ; and a rat micronucleus test .
Valsartan had no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of male or female rats at oral doses up to 200 mg / kg / day .
This dose is 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Daily oral dosing of neonatal / juvenile rats with valsartan at doses as low as 1 mg / kg / day ( about 10 % of the maximum recommended pediatric dose on a mg / m2 basis ) from postnatal day 7 to postnatal day 70 produced persistent , irreversible kidney damage .
These kidney effects in neonatal rats represent expected exaggerated pharmacological effects that are observed if rats are treated during the first 13 days of life .
This period coincides with 36 weeks of gestation in humans , which could occasionally extend up to 44 weeks after conception in humans .
In humans , nephrogenesis is thought to be complete around birth ; however , maturation of other aspects of kidney function ( such as glomerular filtration and tubular function ) may continue until approximately 2 years of age .
It is unknown whether post - natal use of valsartan before maturation of renal function is complete has long - term deleterious effects on the kidney [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hypertension Adult Hypertension The antihypertensive effects of valsartan were demonstrated principally in 7 placebo - controlled , 4 - to 12 - week trials ( 1 in patients over 65 years ) of dosages from 10 to 320 mg / day in patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures of 95 to 115 mmHg .
The studies allowed comparison of once - daily and twice - daily regimens of 160 mg / day ; comparison of peak and trough effects ; comparison ( in pooled data ) of response by gender , age , and race ; and evaluation of incremental effects of hydrochlorothiazide .
Administration of valsartan to patients with essential hypertension results in a significant reduction of sitting , supine , and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure , usually with little or no orthostatic change .
In most patients , after administration of a single oral dose , onset of antihypertensive activity occurs at approximately 2 hours , and maximum reduction of blood pressure is achieved within 6 hours .
The antihypertensive effect persists for 24 hours after dosing , but there is a decrease from peak effect at lower doses ( 40 mg ) presumably reflecting loss of inhibition of angiotensin II .
At higher doses , however ( 160 mg ) , there is little difference in peak and trough effect .
During repeated dosing , the reduction in blood pressure with any dose is substantially present within 2 weeks , and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks .
In long - term follow - up studies ( without placebo control ) , the effect of valsartan appeared to be maintained for up to 2 years .
The antihypertensive effect is independent of age , gender or race .
The latter finding regarding race is based on pooled data and should be viewed with caution , because antihypertensive drugs that affect the renin - angiotensin system ( that is , ACE inhibitors and angiotensin - II blockers ) have generally been found to be less effective in low - renin hypertensives ( frequently blacks ) than in high - renin hypertensives ( frequently whites ) .
In pooled , randomized , controlled trials of valsartan that included a total of 140 blacks and 830 whites , valsartan and an ACE - inhibitor control were generally at least as effective in blacks as whites .
The explanation for this difference from previous findings is unclear .
Abrupt withdrawal of valsartan has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
The blood pressure - lowering effect of valsartan and thiazide - type diuretics are approximately additive .
The 7 studies of valsartan monotherapy included over 2 , 000 patients randomized to various doses of valsartan and about 800 patients randomized to placebo .
Doses below 80 mg were not consistently distinguished from those of placebo at trough , but doses of 80 , 160 and 320 mg produced dose - related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure , with the difference from placebo of approximately 6 - 9 / 3 - 5 mmHg at 80 to 160 mg and 9 / 6 mmHg at 320 mg .
In a controlled trial the addition of HCTZ to valsartan 80 mg resulted in additional lowering of systolic and diastolic blood pressure by approximately 6 / 3 and 12 / 5 mmHg for 12 . 5 and 25 mg of HCTZ , respectively , compared to valsartan 80 mg alone .
Patients with an inadequate response to 80 mg once daily were titrated to either 160 mg once daily or 80 mg twice daily , which resulted in a similar response in both groups .
In controlled trials , the antihypertensive effect of once - daily valsartan 80 mg was similar to that of once - daily enalapril 20 mg or once - daily lisinopril 10 mg .
There are no trials of valsartan demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but at least one pharmacologically similar drug has demonstrated such benefits .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in valsartan - treated patients in controlled trials .
Pediatric Hypertension Children Between 6 to 16 Years of Age In a clinical study involving 261 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age , patients who weighed less than 35 kg received 10 , 40 or 80 mg of valsartan daily ( low , medium and high doses ) , and patients who weighed greater than or equal to 35 kg received 20 , 80 , and 160 mg of valsartan daily ( low , medium and high doses ) .
Renal and urinary disorders , and essential hypertension with or without obesity were the most common underlying causes of hypertension in children enrolled in this study .
At the end of 2 weeks , valsartan reduced both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in a dose - dependent manner .
Overall , the three dose levels of valsartan ( low , medium and high ) significantly reduced systolic blood pressure by 8 , 10 , and 12 mm Hg from the baseline , respectively .
Patients were re - randomized to either continue receiving the same dose of valsartan or were switched to placebo .
In patients who continued to receive the medium and high doses of valsartan , systolic blood pressure at trough was 4 and 7 mm Hg lower than patients who received the placebo treatment .
In patients receiving the low dose of valsartan , systolic blood pressure at trough was similar to that of patients who received the placebo treatment .
Overall , the dose - dependent antihypertensive effect of valsartan was consistent across all the demographic subgroups .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
14 . 2 Heart Failure The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial ( Val - HeFT ) was a multinational , double - blind study in which 5 , 010 patients with NYHA class II ( 62 % ) to IV ( 2 % ) heart failure and LVEF less than 40 % , on baseline therapy chosen by their physicians , were randomized to placebo or valsartan ( titrated from 40 mg twice daily to the highest tolerated dose or 160 mg twice daily ) and followed for a mean of about 2 years .
Although Val - HeFT ’ s primary goal was to examine the effect of valsartan when added to an ACE inhibitor , about 7 % were not receiving an ACE inhibitor .
Other background therapy included diuretics ( 86 % ) , digoxin ( 67 % ) , and beta - blockers ( 36 % ) .
The population studied was 80 % male , 46 % 65 years or older and 89 % Caucasian .
At the end of the trial , patients in the valsartan group had a blood pressure that was 4 mmHg systolic and 2 mmHg diastolic lower than the placebo group .
There were two primary end points , both assessed as time to first event : all - cause mortality and heart failure morbidity , the latter defined as all - cause mortality , sudden death with resuscitation , hospitalization for heart failure , and the need for intravenous inotropic or vasodilatory drugs for at least 4 hours .
These results are summarized in the following table .
Placebo Valsartan Hazard Ratio Nominal ( N = 2 , 499 ) ( N = 2 , 511 ) ( 95 % CI * ) p - value All - cause mortality 484 495 1 . 02 0 . 8 ( 19 . 4 % ) ( 19 . 7 % ) ( 0 . 90 to 1 . 15 ) HF morbidity 801 723 0 . 87 0 . 009 ( 32 . 1 % ) ( 28 . 8 % ) ( 0 . 79 to 0 . 97 ) * CI = Confidence Interval Although the overall morbidity result favored valsartan , this result was largely driven by the 7 % of patients not receiving an ACE inhibitor , as shown in the following table .
Without ACE Inhibitor With ACE Inhibitor Placebo Valsartan Placebo Valsartan ( N = 181 ) ( N = 185 ) ( N = 2 , 318 ) ( N = 2 , 326 ) Events ( % ) 77 ( 42 . 5 % ) 46 ( 24 . 9 % ) 724 ( 31 . 2 % ) 677 ( 29 . 1 % ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 51 ( 0 . 35 , 0 . 73 ) 0 . 92 ( 0 . 82 , 1 . 02 ) p - value 0 . 0002 0 . 0965 The modest favorable trend in the group receiving an ACE inhibitor was largely driven by the patients receiving less than the recommended dose of ACE inhibitor .
Thus , there is little evidence of further clinical benefit when valsartan is added to an adequate dose of ACE inhibitor .
Secondary end points in the subgroup not receiving ACE inhibitors were as follows .
Placebo ( N = 181 ) Valsartan ( N = 185 ) Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) Components of HF morbidity All - cause mortality 49 ( 27 . 1 % ) 32 ( 17 . 3 % ) 0 . 59 ( 0 . 37 , 0 . 91 ) Sudden death with resuscitation 2 ( 1 . 1 % ) 1 ( 0 . 5 % ) 0 . 47 ( 0 . 04 , 5 . 20 ) CHF therapy 1 ( 0 . 6 % ) 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) - CHF hospitalization 48 ( 26 . 5 % ) 24 ( 13 . 0 % ) 0 . 43 ( 0 . 27 , 0 . 71 ) Cardiovascular mortality 40 ( 22 . 1 % ) 29 ( 15 . 7 % ) 0 . 65 ( 0 . 40 , 1 . 05 ) Non - fatal morbidity 49 ( 27 . 1 % ) 24 ( 13 . 0 % ) 0 . 42 ( 0 . 26 , 0 . 69 ) In patients not receiving an ACE inhibitor , valsartan - treated patients had an increase in ejection fraction and reduction in left ventricular internal diastolic diameter ( LVIDD ) .
Effects were generally consistent across subgroups defined by age and gender for the population of patients not receiving an ACE inhibitor .
The number of black patients was small and does not permit a meaningful assessment in this subset of patients .
14 . 3 Post - Myocardial Infarction The VALsartan In Acute myocardial iNfarcTion trial ( VALIANT ) was a randomized , controlled , multinational , double - blind study in 14 , 703 patients with acute myocardial infarction and either heart failure ( signs , symptoms or radiological evidence ) or left ventricular systolic dysfunction ( ejection fraction ≤ 40 % by radionuclide ventriculography or ≤ 35 % by echocardiography or ventricular contrast angiography ) .
Patients were randomized within 12 hours to 10 days after the onset of myocardial infarction symptoms to one of three treatment groups : valsartan ( titrated from 20 or 40 mg twice daily to the highest tolerated dose up to a maximum of 160 mg twice daily ) , the ACE inhibitor , captopril ( titrated from 6 . 25 mg three times daily to the highest tolerated dose up to a maximum of 50 mg three times daily ) , or the combination of valsartan plus captopril .
In the combination group , the dose of valsartan was titrated from 20 mg twice daily to the highest tolerated dose up to a maximum of 80 mg twice daily ; the dose of captopril was the same as for monotherapy .
The population studied was 69 % male , 94 % Caucasian , and 53 % were 65 years of age or older .
Baseline therapy included aspirin ( 91 % ) , beta - blockers ( 70 % ) , ACE inhibitors ( 40 % ) , thrombolytics ( 35 % ) and statins ( 34 % ) .
The mean treatment duration was 2 years .
The mean daily dose of valsartan in the monotherapy group was 217 mg .
The primary endpoint was time to all - cause mortality .
Secondary endpoints included ( 1 ) time to cardiovascular ( CV ) mortality , and ( 2 ) time to the first event of cardiovascular mortality , reinfarction , or hospitalization for heart failure .
The results are summarized in the following table .
Valsartan vs . Captopril ( N = 4 , 909 ) ( N = 4 , 909 ) Valsartan + Captopril vs . Captopril ( N = 4 , 885 ) ( N = 4 , 909 ) No .
of Deaths Valsartan / Captopril Hazard Ratio CI p - value No .
of Deaths Comb / Captopril Hazard Ratio CI p - value All - cause mortality 979 ( 19 . 9 % ) / 958 ( 19 . 5 % ) 1 . 001 ( 0 . 902 , 1 . 111 ) 0 . 98 941 ( 19 . 3 % ) / 958 ( 19 . 5 % ) 0 . 984 ( 0 . 886 , 1 . 093 ) 0 . 73 CV mortality 827 ( 16 . 8 % ) / 830 ( 16 . 9 % ) 0 . 976 ( 0 . 875 , 1 . 090 ) CV mortality , hospitalization for HF , and recurrent non - fatal MI 1 , 529 ( 31 . 1 % ) / 1 , 567 ( 31 . 9 % ) 0 . 955 ( 0 . 881 , 1 . 035 ) There was no difference in overall mortality among the three treatment groups .
There was thus no evidence that combining the ACE inhibitor captopril and the angiotensin II blocker valsartan was of value .
The data were assessed to see whether the effectiveness of valsartan could be demonstrated by showing in a non - inferiority analysis that it preserved a fraction of the effect of captopril , a drug with a demonstrated survival effect in this setting .
A conservative estimate of the effect of captopril ( based on a pooled analysis of 3 post - infarction studies of captopril and 2 other ACE inhibitors ) was a 14 % to 16 % reduction in mortality compared to placebo .
Valsartan would be considered effective if it preserved a meaningful fraction of that effect and unequivocally preserved some of that effect .
As shown in the table , the upper bound of the CI for the hazard ratio ( valsartan / captopril ) for overall or CV mortality is 1 . 09 to 1 . 11 , a difference of about 9 % to 11 % , thus making it unlikely that valsartan has less than about half of the estimated effect of captopril and clearly demonstrating an effect of valsartan .
The other secondary endpoints were consistent with this conclusion .
Effects on Mortality Amongst Subgroups in VALIANT [ MULTIMEDIA ] There were no clear differences in all - cause mortality based on age , gender , race , or baseline therapies , as shown in the figure above .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 63629 - 7432 - 1 : 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Pregnancy : Advise female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to valsartan tablets during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Ask patients to report pregnancies to their healthcare provider as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with valsartan tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Advise patients that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to their healthcare provider .
Tell patients that if syncope occurs to discontinue valsartan tablets until the physician has been consulted .
Caution all patients that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hyperkalemia : Advise patients not to use salt substitutes without consulting their healthcare provider [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Revised : 9 / 2021 .
Valsartan Tablets ( val - SAR - tan ) What is the most important information I should know about valsartan tablets ?
Valsartan tablets can cause harm or death to an unborn baby .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
• If you become pregnant during treatment with valsartan tablets , stop taking valsartan tablets and tell your healthcare provider right away .
What are valsartan tablets ?
Valsartan tablets are a prescription medicine used in : • adults and children 6 years of age and older to lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Valsartan tablets may be used alone or in combination with other blood pressure medicines .
• adults to treat heart failure .
Valsartan tablets may help decrease your need for hospitalization that happens with heart failure .
• adults with certain types of heart failure , to increase the chance of living longer after a heart attack ( myocardial infarction ) .
Valsartan tablets should not be used to treat high blood pressure in children less than 1 year of age .
It is not known if valsartan tablets are safe and effective in children with certain kidney problems .
Do not take valsartan tablets if you : • are allergic to any of the ingredients in valsartan tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in valsartan tablets .
• have diabetes and are also taking aliskiren .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
Before taking valsartan tablets , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions including , if you : • have heart problems • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about valsartan tablets ?
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if valsartan passes into your breast milk .
You should not breastfeed during treatment with valsartan tablets .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during your treatment with valsartan tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Valsartan tablets may affect the way other medicines work .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • other medicines for high blood pressure or a heart problem • water pills ( also called “ diuretics ” ) • potassium - containing medicines , potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium .
Your healthcare provider may check the amount of potassium in your blood regularly .
• nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) • Lithium .
Your healthcare provider will check the amount of lithium in your blood regularly .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when a new medicine is prescribed .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist before you start taking any new medicine .
How should I take valsartan tablets ?
• Take valsartan tablets exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• For treatment of high blood pressure , take valsartan tablets 1 time each day • For children : Your pharmacist will mix valsartan tablets as a liquid suspension for your child , if : o your child is ≥ 6 years of age and cannot swallow tablets , or o if tablets are not available in the prescribed strength needed for your child • If your child switches between taking the tablet and the suspension , your healthcare provider will adjust the dose as needed .
o Shake the bottle of suspension well for at least 10 seconds before pouring the dose of medicine to give to your child .
• For adults with heart failure or who have had a heart attack , take valsartan tablets 2 times each day .
Your healthcare provider may start you on a low dose of valsartan tablets and may increase the dose during your treatment .
• Valsartan tablets can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Take the next dose at your regular time .
If you take too much valsartan tablets , call your healthcare provider , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of valsartan tablets ?
• Valsartan tablets can cause serious side effects , including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about valsartan tablets ? ”
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure can happen with valsartan tablets , especially when you first start taking it and can cause you to feel lightheaded .
Feeling lightheaded is most likely to happen if you : o take water pills o are dehydrated ( decreased body fluids ) due to vomiting and diarrhea o are on a low - salt diet o you sweat excessively o get dialysis treatments o have heart problems o do not drink enough liquids Lie down , if you feel lightheaded , dizzy or faint .
Call your healthcare provider right away .
• Kidney problems .
Kidney problems may get worse in people that already have kidney disease or heart problems .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check for this .
• Increased potassium in your blood .
Some people may develop increased potassium in the blood during treatment with valsartan tablets .
Your doctor may do a blood test to check your potassium levels as needed .
The most common side effects of valsartan tablets when used to treat people with high blood pressure include : • headache • dizziness • flu symptoms • tiredness • stomach ( abdominal ) pain The most common side effects of valsartan tablets when used to treat people with heart failure include : • dizziness • low blood pressure • diarrhea • joint and back pain • tiredness • high blood potassium The most common side effects of valsartan tablets when used to treat people after a heart attack that cause them to stop taking valsartan tablets include : • low blood pressure • cough • high blood creatinine ( decreased kidney function ) You should not stop taking valsartan tablets without talking to your healthcare provider .
These are not all of the possible side effects of valsartan tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA ¬ 1088 .
How should I store valsartan tablets ?
• Store valsartan tablets at room temperature between 68ºF to 77ºF ( 20ºC to 25 ºC ) .
• Keep valsartan tablets container tightly closed and in a dry place to protect from moisture .
• Valsartan suspension is provided in a glass bottle with a child - resistant screw - cap closure .
• Store bottles of valsartan suspension at room temperature less than 86ºF ( 30ºC ) for up to 30 days , or refrigerate between 35ºF to 46ºF ( 2ºC to 8ºC ) for up to 75 days .
Keep valsartan tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of valsartan tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use valsartan tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give valsartan tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about valsartan tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in valsartan tablets ?
Active ingredient : valsartan Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , iron oxides ( yellow , black and / or red ) , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , talc and titanium dioxide .
Manufactured for : Macleods Pharma USA , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufactured by : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Limited .
Daman ( U . T . ) INDIA For more information , call 1 - 888 - 943 - 3210 or 1 - 855 - 926 - 3384 .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s Diovan ( valsartan ) tablets .
However , due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Revised : September 2021 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 9 / 2021 Valsartan 40 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
