Drug Facts Active Ingredient Ethyl alcohol 75 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses For hand and skin sanitizing .
When water , soap and towel are not available .
Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
H225 Highly flammable liquid and vapour .
When using this product Do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of eye contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Use wipes only on unbroken intact skin .
If you have sensitive skin or certain allergies , check the list of ingredients on the label before using wipes .
Do not ingest .
P210 Keep away from heat , hot surfaces , sparks , open flames and other ignition sources .
No smoking .
Stop use and ask a doctor If skin irritation or redness develops .
• Keep out of reach of children .
• Children under 6 years of age use only under adult supervision .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Not recommended for infants .
Directions • Pull out the wipes , clean as need and let it dry naturally .
• Three times stronger compared to non - alcohol wipes .
To Open Package : • Flip open dispensing lid • Locate wipe at center of roll and thread through small opening in lid • For best results dispense wipes at an angle • Always close lid securely between uses to retain moisture TO DISPOSE WIPE : Place in a waste basket after use .
DO NOT FLUSH Other information Store below 110 ° F ( 43 ° C ) May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Aqua / Water , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Fragrance , sodium PCA , Disodium EDTA .
adds value to your life 75 % ALCOHOL + PLUS FORMULA PROTECTION KILLS 99 . 9 % OF GERMS FOR HAND SANITIZING TO DECREASE BACTERIA AND GERMS ON THE SKIN It is specifically formulated to be tough on germs , yet gentle on skin , by its softening and moisturizing ingredients .
Anytime you need strong , instant sanitizing you can confidently clean with Douxie Alcohol Sanitizing Wipes for a totally hygienic result , when soap and water are not available .
Distributed by Galaxy Trade 17192 Murphy Ave Suite 15512 Irvine CA 92623 MADE IN TURKEY Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
