DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
The molecular formula for nystatin is C47H75NO17 .
The molecular weight of nystatin is 926 . 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Topical Powder is for dermatologic use .
Nystatin Topical Powder contains 100 , 000 USP nystatin units per gram dispersed in talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsisglabrata , Tricophytonrubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Topical Powder is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
Nystatin Topical Powder is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Topical Powder is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin Topical Powder should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
2 .
Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
3 .
If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin topical preparation .
It also is not known whether these preparations can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin topical preparations should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies with nystatin topical powder did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical powder is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Very moist lesions are best treated with the topical dusting powder .
Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) : Apply to candidal lesions two or three times daily until healing is complete .
For fungal infection of the feet caused by Candida species , the powder should be dusted on the feet , as well as , in all foot wear .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Topical Powder is supplied as 100 , 000 units nystatin per gram in plastic squeeze bottles .
NDC 71205 - 106 - 30 for 30 g . STORAGE Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) and excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat ( 40ºC / 104ºF ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Keep out of reach of children .
Manufactured for Vensun Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 790 Township Line Rd .
Yardley , PA 19067 Rev 01 , January 2018 Relabeled By ; Proficient RX LP .
Thousand Oaks CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 30 g Presentation NDC 71205 - 106 - 30 Nystatin Topical Powder , USP 100 , 000 USP units per gram 30 grams FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
