Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Diphenhydramine HCl 6 . 25 mg Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg Purposes Antihistamine / cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Uses • • temporarily relieves • • sneezing • • itchy nose or throat • • runny nose • • itchy , watery eyes due to hay fever • • nasal and sinus congestion • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold Warnings Do not use • • in a child under 4 years of age • • in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if the child ’ s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
• • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin • • for the purpose of making your child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if the child has • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • glaucoma • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with asthma • • a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • • do not exceed recommended dosage • • may cause marked drowsiness • • sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • • excitability may occur , especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if • • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occurs • • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with a fever • • cough persists for more than 7 days , comes back or occurs with a fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • may be given every 4 hours .
Do not give more than 6 doses in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor • • use enclosed dosing cup only .
Keep for use with this product only .
Do not use any other dosing device .
Age Dose children under 4 years of age do not use children 4 to under 6 years of age do not use unless directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age 10 mL Other information • • each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , flavor , maltitol solution , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 452 - 0051 Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare , Warren , NJ 07059 Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2016 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
All rights reserved .
Principal Display Panel NDC 0067 - 8106 - 04 Ages 6 to 11 years Children ’ s Triaminic ® Syrup Night Time Cold & Cough Diphenhydramine HCl ( Antihistamine / Cough Suppressant ) Phenylephrine HCl ( Nasal Decongestant ) • • Cough Relief • • Runny , Stuffy Nose • • Itchy Throat Grape Flavor 4 Fl OZ ( 118 mL ) Child - Resistant Safety Cap .
Do not use if printed neckband is broken or missing .
What You Need to Help Make Your Child Feel Better Night Time Cold & Cough • • Cough Relief • • Runny , Stuffy Nose • • Itchy Throat The Triaminic brand provides a broad range of products , created with the needs of children in mind .
Trusted by Parents for over 50 years .
For more information plus helpful tips visit www . triaminic . com or call The Triaminic Clinic ® , 1 - 800 - KIDS - 987 12682 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
