Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 17 % Alcohol 60 % Inactive Ingredients Water , SDA Alcohol 40 B , Carcia Papaya Fruit Extract , Hydroxypropyl - cellulose , Artemisia Scoparia Oil , FD C Brown 1 Purpose Wart Removal Skin Cleanser Uses For the removal of common warts ( easily recognized by the rough cauliflower - like appearance of the surface ) For the removal of plantar warts that are located on the bottom of the foot .
Directions Wash Affected area with one or two drops of the Pre - Treatment Solution and scrub with a brush .
Rinse and dry thoroughly .
Dab the wart removal solution directly onto the wart and allow to dry .
Repeat steps once daily until the wart is gone .
Directions for Step 1 Apply one or two drops and scrub with a brush Rinse and dry thoroughly Directions for Step 2 Dab directly onto the wart and allow to dry .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep Out Of Reach Of Children Warnings Avoid contact with the eyes .
If eye contact does occur , rinse thoroughly with water for 15 minutes .
For external use only .
Avoid inhaling vapors .
Extremely flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Replace bottle caps tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
Do not use on irritated skin , moles , any areas that is infected or reddened , birthmarks , genital warts , warts with hair growing from them , warts on the face , warts on mucous membranes ( such as inside the mouth , nose , anus , genitals , or lips ) Ask A Doctor Stop and ask a Doctor if discomfort persists .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Ask a doctor before use if you have diabetes or poor blood circulation .
Package Label VeruCide 2 - step Wart Treatment System Wart Remover Physician Formula Contains Papaya Extract Questions or comments Call 800 - 307 - 8818 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 am to 5 : 00 pm ( Pacific Time ) Please recycle .
This package is made from recyclable materials .
Proudly made in the USA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
