Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne Medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • Limit use to the face and neck • Wash hands after use • Sun Alert : Because this product may make your skin more sensitive to the sun , be certain you have adequate sunscreen protection while using this product and for a week after you discontinue use Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other information • Keep tightly closed • Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Water , Alcohol Denat . , Octyldodecanol , Dimethicone , Niacinamide , Sodium Lactate , Isohexadecane , Polyacrylamide , Sodium Hydroxide , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Xanthan Gum , Hexyldecanol , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Fragrance , Laureth - 7 , Disodium EDTA , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Bisabolol , Cetylhydroxyproline Palmitamide , Stearic Acid , Brassica Campestris ( Rapeseed ) Sterols , Titanium Dioxide Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Tube Carton Clearasil ® ULTRA Acne + Marks Spot Lotion Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication REDUCES MARKS Helps to clear pimples fast and reduce the appearance of acne marks 1 FL .
OZ .
( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
