1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NAMENDA XR ( memantine hydrochloride ) extended - release capsules are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
NAMENDA XR contains memantine HCl , an NMDA receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
( ) 1 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose 7 mg NAMENDA XR once daily ( ) 2 . 1 Maintenance Dose 28 mg NAMENDA XR once daily ( ) 2 . 1 A minimum of 1 week of treatment with the previous dose should be observed before increasing the dose .
( ) 2 . 1 A target dose of 14 mg once daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment .
( ) 2 . 1 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The dosage of NAMENDA XR shown to be effective in a controlled clinical trial is 28 mg once daily .
The recommended starting dose of NAMENDA XR is 7 mg once daily .
The recommended target dose is 28 mg once daily .
The dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to 28 mg once daily .
The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week , and only if the previous dose has been well tolerated .
The maximum recommended dose is 28 mg once daily .
NAMENDA XR can be taken with or without food .
NAMENDA XR capsules can be taken intact or may be opened , sprinkled on applesauce , and thereby swallowed .
The entire contents of each NAMENDA XR capsule should be consumed ; the dose should not be divided .
Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce , as described above , NAMENDA XR should be swallowed whole .
NAMENDA XR capsules should not be divided , chewed , or crushed .
Switching from NAMENDA Tablets to NAMENDA XR Capsules : Patients treated with NAMENDA tablets may be switched to NAMENDA XR capsules as follows : It is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 10 mg twice daily of NAMENDA tablets be switched to NAMENDA XR 28 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of a 10 mg NAMENDA tablet .
There is no study addressing the comparative efficacy of these 2 regimens .
In a patient with severe renal impairment , it is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 5 mg twice daily of NAMENDA tablets be switched to NAMENDA XR 14 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of a 5 mg NAMENDA tablet .
Special Populations : Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
NAMENDA XR should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
A target dose of 14 mg / day is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL / min , based on the Cockroft - Gault equation ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS NAMENDA XR is available as an extended - release capsule ( ) in the following strengths : 7 mg , 14 mg , 21 mg , 28 mg ( , ) 3 . 13 . 13 . 2 3 . 1 Dosage Form Capsule : Each capsule contains 7 mg , 14 mg , 21 mg or 28 mg of memantine HCl .
The 7 mg capsules are a yellow opaque # 4 size capsule , with “ FLI 7 mg ” black imprint .
The 14 mg capsules are a yellow cap and dark green opaque body # 4 size capsule , with “ FLI 14 mg ” black imprint on the yellow cap .
The 21 mg capsules are a white to off - white cap and dark green opaque body # 4 size capsule , with “ FLI 21 mg ” black imprint on the white to off - white cap .
The 28 mg capsules are a dark green opaque # 3 size capsule , with “ FLI 28 mg ” white imprint .
3 . 2 Dosage Strengths • Each 7 mg capsule contains 7 mg memantine HCl .
• Each 14 mg capsule contains 14 mg memantine HCl .
• Each 21 mg capsule contains 21 mg memantine HCl .
• Each 28 mg capsule contains 28 mg memantine HCl .
For a full list of excipients , see .
Description ( ) 11 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NAMENDA XR is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
( ) 4 . 1 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity NAMENDA XR is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation See .
[ Description ( ) ] 11 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
( ) 5 . 1 5 . 1 Genitourinary Conditions Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
5 . 2 Seizures NAMENDA XR has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder .
In clinical trials of memantine , seizures occurred in 0 . 3 % of patients treated with memantine and 0 . 6 % of patients treated with placebo .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly observed adverse reactions occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % and greater than placebo with administration of NAMENDA XR 28 mg / day were headache , diarrhea and dizziness .
Other less common and sometimes serious adverse events have been reported .
( ) 6 .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , Contact Forest Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Data Sources NAMENDA XR was evaluated in a double - blind placebo - controlled trial treating a total of 676 patients with moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type ( 341 patients treated with NAMENDA XR 28 mg / day dose and 335 patients treated with placebo ) for a treatment period up to 24 weeks .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation In the placebo - controlled clinical trial of NAMENDA XR [ See ) ] , which treated a total of 676 patients , the proportion of patients in the NAMENDA XR 28 mg / day dose and placebo groups who discontinued treatment due to adverse events were 10 . 0 % and 6 . 3 % , respectively .
The most common adverse reaction in the NAMENDA XR treated group that led to treatment discontinuation in this study was dizziness at a rate of 1 . 5 % .
Clinical Studies ( 14 6 . 3 Most Common Adverse Reactions The most commonly observed adverse reactions seen in patients administered NAMENDA XR in the controlled clinical trial , defined as those occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % in the NAMENDA XR group and at a higher frequency than placebo were headache , diarrhea and dizziness .
lists treatment - emergent adverse reactions that were observed at an incidence of ≥ 2 % in the NAMENDA XR treated group and occurred at a rate greater than placebo .
Table 1 Table 1 : Adverse reactions observed with a frequency of ≥ 2 % and occurring with a rate greater than placeboAdverse reaction Placebo ( n = 335 ) % NAMENDA XR 28 mg ( n = 341 ) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea 4 5 Constipation 1 3 Abdominal pain 1 2 Vomiting 1 2 Infections and infestations Influenza 3 4 Investigations Weight , increased 1 3 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 3 Nervous system disorders Headache 5 6 Dizziness 1 5 Somnolence 1 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 3 4 Depression 1 3 Aggression 1 2 Renal and urinary disorders Urinary incontinence 1 2 Vascular disorders Hypertension 2 4 Hypotension 1 2 6 . 4 Vital Sign Changes NAMENDA XR and placebo groups were compared with respect to ( 1 ) mean change from baseline in vital signs ( pulse , systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and weight ) and ( 2 ) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables .
There were no clinically important changes in vital signs in patients treated with NAMENDA XR .
A comparison of supine and standing vital sign measures for NAMENDA XR and placebo in Alzheimer ' s patients indicated that NAMENDA XR treatment is not associated with orthostatic changes .
6 . 5 Laboratory Changes NAMENDA XR and placebo groups were compared with respect to ( 1 ) mean change from baseline in various serum chemistry , hematology , and urinalysis variables and ( 2 ) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables .
These analyses revealed no clinically important changes in laboratory test parameters associated with NAMENDA XR treatment .
6 . 6 ECG Changes NAMENDA XR and placebo groups were compared with respect to ( 1 ) mean change from baseline in various ECG parameters and ( 2 ) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables .
These analyses revealed no clinically important changes in ECG parameters associated with NAMENDA XR treatment .
6 . 7 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Clinical Trials of NAMENDA XR Following is a list of treatment - emergent adverse reactions reported from 750 patients treated with NAMENDA XR for periods up to 52 weeks in double - blind or open - label clinical trials .
The listing does not include those events already listed in , those events for which a drug cause was remote , those events for which descriptive terms were so lacking in specificity as to be uninformative , and those events reported only once which did not have a substantial probability of being immediately life threatening .
Events are categorized by body system .
Table 1 anemia .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : bradycardia , myocardial infarction .
Cardiac Disorders : fecal incontinence , nausea .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : asthenia , fatigue , gait disturbance , irritability , peripheral edema , pyrexia .
General Disorders : bronchitis , nasopharyngitis , pneumonia , upper respiratory tract infection , urinary tract infection .
Infections and Infestations : fall .
Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications : weight decreased .
Investigations : anorexia , dehydration , decreased appetite , hyperglycemia .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : arthralgia , pain in extremity .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : convulsion , dementia Alzheimer ' s type , syncope , tremor .
Nervous System Disorders : agitation , confusional state , delirium , delusion , disorientation , hallucination , insomnia , restlessness .
Psychiatric Disorders : cough , dyspnea .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : 6 . 8 Memantine Immediate Release Clinical Trial and Post Marketing Spontaneous Reports The following additional adverse reactions have been identified from previous worldwide experience with memantine ( immediate release ) use .
These adverse reactions have been chosen for inclusion because of a combination of seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to memantine and have not been listed elsewhere in labeling .
However , because some of these adverse reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship between their occurrence and the administration of memantine .
These events include : agranulocytosis , leukopenia ( including neutropenia ) , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia .
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : atrial fibrillation , atrioventricular block ( including 2 nd and 3 rd degree block ) , cardiac failure , orthostatic hypotension , and torsades de pointes .
Cardiac Disorders : inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion .
Endocrine Disorders : colitis , pancreatitis .
Gastrointestinal disorders : malaise , sudden death .
General disorders and administration site conditions : hepatitis ( including abnormal hepatic function test , cytolytic and cholestatic hepatitis ) , hepatic failure .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : sepsis .
Infections and infestations : electrocardiogram QT prolonged , international normalized ratio increased .
Investigations : hypoglycaemia , hyponatraemia .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : convulsions ( including grand mal ) , cerebrovascular accident , dyskinesia , extrapyramidal disorder , hypertonia , loss of consciousness , neuroleptic malignant syndrome , Parkinsonism , tardive dyskinesia , transient ischemic attack .
Nervous System Disorders : hallucinations ( both visual and auditory ) , restlessness , suicidal ideation .
Psychiatric Disorders : acute renal failure ( including abnormal renal function test ) , urinary retention .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : rash , Stevens Johnson syndrome .
Skin Disorders : pulmonary embolism , thrombophlebitis , deep venous thrombosis .
Vascular Disorders : The following adverse events have been reported to be temporally associated with memantine treatment and are not described elsewhere in the product labeling : aspiration pneumonia , bone fracture , carpal tunnel syndrome , cerebral infarction , chest pain , cholelithiasis , claudication , depressed level of consciousness ( including rare reports of coma ) , dysphagia , encephalopathy , gastritis , gastroesophageal reflux , intracranial hemorrhage , hyperglycemia , hyperlipidemia , ileus , impotence , lethargy , myoclonus , supraventricular tachycardia , and tachycardia .
However , there is again no evidence that any of these additional adverse events are caused by memantine .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with NAMENDA XR , specifically .
Use with other NMDA antagonists ( amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan ) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution .
( ) 7 . 1 7 . 1 Use with other N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) Antagonists The combined use of NAMENDA XR with other NMDA antagonists ( amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan ) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution .
7 . 2 Effect of Memantine on the Metabolism of Other Drugs studies conducted with marker substrates of CYP450 enzymes ( CYP1A2 , - 2A6 , - 2C9 , - 2D6 , - 2E1 , - 3A4 ) showed minimal inhibition of these enzymes by memantine .
In addition , i studies indicate that at concentrations exceeding those associated with efficacy , memantine does not induce the cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP1A2 , - 2C9 , - 2E1 and - 3A4 / 5 .
No pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs metabolized by these enzymes are expected .
In vitron vitro Pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the potential of memantine for interaction with donepezil ( See ) and bupropion .
Coadministration of memantine with the AChE inhibitor donepezil HCl does not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
Memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of the CYP2B6 substrate bupropion or its metabolite hydroxybupropion .
Section Use with Cholinesterase Inhibitors 7 . 7 7 . 3 Effect of Other Drugs on Memantine Memantine is predominantly renally eliminated , and drugs that are substrates and / or inhibitors of the CYP450 system are not expected to alter the pharmacokinetics of memantine .
A clinical drug - drug interaction study indicated that bupropion did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine .
7 . 4 Drugs Eliminated via Renal Mechanisms Because memantine is eliminated in part by tubular secretion , coadministration of drugs that use the same renal cationic system , including hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , triamterene ( TA ) , metformin , cimetidine , ranitidine , quinidine , and nicotine , could potentially result in altered plasma levels of both agents .
However , coadministration of memantine and HCTZ / TA did not affect the bioavailability of either memantine or TA , and the bioavailability of HCTZ decreased by 20 % .
In addition , coadministration of memantine with the antihyperglycemic drug Glucovance ( glyburide and metformin HCl ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine , metformin and glyburide .
Furthermore , memantine did not modify the serum glucose lowering effect of Glucovance , indicating the absence of a pharmacodynamic interaction .
®® 7 . 5 Drugs That Make the Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80 % under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8 .
Therefore , alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects .
Urine pH is altered by diet , drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) and clinical state of the patient ( e . g . renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract ) .
Hence , memantine should be used with caution under these conditions .
7 . 6 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Because the plasma protein binding of memantine is low ( 45 % ) , an interaction with drugs that are highly bound to plasma proteins , such as warfarin and digoxin , is unlikely [ see Section . ]
7 7 . 7 Use with Cholinesterase Inhibitors Coadministration of memantine with the AChE inhibitor donepezil HCl did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
In a 24 - week controlled clinical study in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease , the adverse event profile observed with a combination of memantine immediate - release and donepezil was similar to that of donepezil alone .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of NAMENDA XR in pediatric patients have not been established .
( ) 8 . 4 8 . 1 Pregnancy There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of NAMENDA XR in pregnant women .
NAMENDA XR should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Pregnancy Category B : Memantine given orally to pregnant rats and pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis was not teratogenic up to the highest doses tested ( 18 mg / kg / day in rats and 30 mg / kg / day in rabbits , which are 6 and 21 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m basis ) .
2 Slight maternal toxicity , decreased pup weights and an increased incidence of non - ossified cervical vertebrae were seen at an oral dose of 18 mg / kg / day in a study in which rats were given oral memantine beginning pre - mating and continuing through the postpartum period .
Slight maternal toxicity and decreased pup weights were also seen at this dose in a study in which rats were treated from day 15 of gestation through the post - partum period .
The no - effect dose for these effects was 6 mg / kg , which is 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m basis .
2 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether memantine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when memantine is administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of memantine in pediatric patients have not been established .
Memantine failed to demonstrate efficacy in two 12 - week controlled clinical studies of 578 pediatric patients aged 6 - 12 years with autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) , including autism , Asperger ' s disorder , and Pervasive Development Disorder - Not Otherwise Specified ( PDD - NOS ) .
Memantine has not been studied in pediatric patients under 6 years of age or over 12 years of age .
Memantine treatment was initiated at 3 mg / day and the dose was escalated to the target dose ( weight - based ) by week 6 .
Oral doses of memantine 3 , 6 , 9 , or 15 mg extended - release capsules were administered once daily to patients with weights < 20 kg , 20 - 39 kg , 40 - 59 kg and ≥ 60 kg , respectively .
In a randomized , 12 - week double - blind , placebo - controlled parallel study ( Study A ) in patients with autism , there was no statistically significant difference in the Social Responsiveness Scale ( SRS ) total raw score between patients randomized to memantine ( n = 54 ) and those randomized to placebo ( n = 53 ) .
In a 12 - week responder - enriched randomized withdrawal study ( Study B ) in 471 patients with ASD , there was no statistically significant difference in the loss of therapeutic response rates between patients randomized to remain on full - dose memantine ( n = 153 ) and those randomized to switch to placebo ( n = 158 ) .
The overall safety profile of memantine in pediatric patients was generally consistent with the known safety profile in adults [ ] .
see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) In Study A , the treatment emergent adverse events in the memantine group ( n = 56 ) that were reported in at least 5 % of patients and twice that in the placebo group ( N = 58 ) are listed in : Table 2 Table 2 : Study A Commonly Reported Adverse Events With a Frequency ≥ 5 % and Twice That in PlaceboReported adverse events leading to discontinuation in more than one patient in either treatment group .
a Adverse Event Memantine N = 56 Placebo N = 58 Cough 8 . 9 % 3 . 4 % Influenza 7 . 1 % 3 . 4 % Rhinorrhea 5 . 4 % 0 % Agitation 5 . 4 % 1 . 7 % Discontinuations due to adverse eventsa Aggression 3 . 6 % 1 . 7 % Irritability 1 . 8 % 3 . 4 % The treatment emergent adverse events that were reported in at least 5 % of patients in the 12 - 48 week open - label study to identify responders to enroll in Study B are listed in : Table 3 Table 3 : 12 - 48 Week Open Label Lead - In study to Study B Commonly Reported Adverse Events With a Frequency ≥ 5 % At least 1 % incidence of adverse events leading to premature discontinuation .
a Adverse Event Memantine N = 903 Headache 8 . 0 % Nasopharyngitis 6 . 3 % Pyrexia 5 . 8 % Irritability 5 . 4 % Discontinuations due to adverse eventsa Irritability 1 . 2 % Aggression 1 . 0 % In the randomized withdrawal study ( Study B ) , the treatment emergent adverse event in patients randomized to placebo ( n = 160 ) and reported in at least 5 % of patients and twice that of the full - dose memantine treatment group ( n = 157 ) was irritability ( 5 . 0 % vs 2 . 5 % ) .
In a juvenile animal study , male and female juvenile rats were administered memantine ( 15 , 30 , and 45 mg / kg / day ) starting on postnatal day ( PND ) 14 through PND 70 .
Body weights were reduced at 45 mg / kg / day .
Delays in sexual maturation were noted in male and female rats at doses ≥ 30 mg / kg / day .
Memantine induced neuronal lesions in several areas of the brain on PND 15 and 17 at doses ≥ 30 mg / kg / day .
Behavioral toxicity ( decrease percent of auditory startle habituation ) was noted for animals in the 45 mg / kg / day dose group .
The 15 mg / kg / day dose was considered the No - Observed - Adverse - Effect - Level ( NOAEL ) for this study .
In a second juvenile rat toxicity study , male and female juvenile rats were administered memantine ( 1 , 3 , 8 , 15 , 30 , and 45 mg / kg / day ) starting on postnatal day ( PND ) 7 through PND 70 .
Due to early memantine - related mortality , the 30 and 45 mg / kg / day dose groups were terminated without further evaluation .
Memantine induced apoptosis or neuronal degeneration in several areas of the brain on PND 8 , 10 , and 17 at a dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
The NOAEL for apoptosis and neuronal degeneration was 8 mg / kg / day .
Behavioral toxicity ( effects on motor activity , auditory startle habituation , and learning and memory ) was noted at doses ≥ 3 mg / kg / day during treatment , but was not seen after drug discontinuation .
Therefore , the 1 mg / kg / day dose was considered the NOAEL for the neurobehavioral effect in this study .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Memantine is not a controlled substance .
Memantine is a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive NMDA antagonist that did not produce any evidence of drug - seeking behavior or withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation in 3 , 254 patients who participated in clinical trials at therapeutic doses .
Post marketing data , outside the U . S . , retrospectively collected , has provided no evidence of drug abuse or dependence .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms most often accompanying overdosage with other formulations of memantine in clinical trials and from worldwide marketing experience , alone or in combination with other drugs and / or alcohol , include agitation , asthenia , bradycardia , confusion , coma , dizziness , ECG changes , increased blood pressure , lethargy , loss of consciousness , psychosis , restlessness , slowed movement , somnolence , stupor , unsteady gait , visual hallucinations , vertigo , vomiting , and weakness .
The largest known ingestion of memantine worldwide was 2 grams in an individual who took memantine in conjunction with unspecified antidiabetic medications .
This person experienced coma , diplopia , and agitation , but subsequently recovered .
One patient participating in a NAMENDA XR clinical trial unintentionally took 112 mg of NAMENDA XR daily for 31 days and experienced an elevated serum uric acid , elevated serum alkaline phosphatase , and low platelet count .
No fatalities have been noted with overdoses of memantine alone .
A fatal outcome has very rarely been reported when memantine has been ingested as part of overdosing with multiple drugs ; in those instances , the relationship between memantine and a fatal outcome has been unclear .
Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to contact a poison control center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
As in any cases of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized , and treatment should be symptomatic .
Elimination of memantine can be enhanced by acidification of urine .
11 DESCRIPTION NAMENDA XR is an orally active NMDA receptor antagonist .
The chemical name for memantine hydrochloride is 1 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethyladamantane hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C H N • HCl and the molecular weight is 215 . 76 .
Memantine HCl occurs as a fine white to off - white powder and is soluble in water .
1221 NAMENDA XR capsules are supplied for oral administration as 7 , 14 , 21 and 28 mg capsules ( see Section ) .
Each capsule contains extended release beads with the labeled amount of memantine HCl and the following inactive ingredients : sugar spheres , polyvinylpyrrolidone , hypromellose , talc , polyethylene glycol , ethylcellulose , ammonium hydroxide , oleic acid , and medium chain triglycerides in hard gelatin capsules .
How Supplied16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Persistent activation of central nervous system N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors by the excitatory amino acid glutamate has been hypothesized to contribute to the symptomatology of Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect through its action as a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive ( open - channel ) NMDA receptor antagonist which binds preferentially to the NMDA receptor - operated cation channels .
There is no evidence that memantine prevents or slows neurodegeneration in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Memantine showed low to negligible affinity for GABA , benzodiazepine , dopamine , adrenergic , histamine and glycine receptors and for voltage - dependent Ca , Na or K channels .
Memantine also showed antagonistic effects at the 5 HT receptor with a potency similar to that for the NMDA receptor and blocked nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with one - sixth to one - tenth the potency .
2 + + + 3 studies have shown that memantine does not affect the reversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase by donepezil , galantamine , or tacrine .
In vitro 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Memantine is well absorbed after oral administration and has linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range .
It is excreted predominantly unchanged in urine and has a terminal elimination half - life of about 60 - 80 hours .
In a study comparing 28 mg once daily NAMENDA XR to 10 mg twice daily NAMENDA C and AUC values were 48 % and 33 % higher for the XR dosage regimen , respectively .
max0 - 24 Absorption After multiple dose administration of NAMENDA XR , memantine peak concentrations occur around 9 - 12 hours postdose .
There is no difference in the absorption of NAMENDA XR when the capsule is taken intact or when the contents are sprinkled on applesauce .
There is no difference in memantine exposure , based on C or AUC , for NAMENDA XR whether that drug product is administered with food or on an empty stomach .
However , peak plasma concentrations are achieved about 18 hours after administration with food versus approximately 25 hours after administration on an empty stomach .
max Distribution The mean volume of distribution of memantine is 9 - 11 L / kg and the plasma protein binding is low ( 45 % ) .
Metabolism Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism .
The hepatic microsomal CYP450 enzyme system does not play a significant role in the metabolism of memantine .
Elimination Memantine is excreted predominantly in the urine , unchanged , and has a terminal elimination half - life of about 60 - 80 hours .
About 48 % of administered drug is excreted unchanged in urine ; the remainder is converted primarily to three polar metabolites which possess minimal NMDA receptor antagonistic activity : the N - glucuronide conjugate , 6 - hydroxy memantine , and 1 - nitroso - deaminated memantine .
A total of 74 % of the administered dose is excreted as the sum of the parent drug and the N - glucuronide conjugate .
Renal clearance involves active tubular secretion moderated by pH dependent tubular reabsorption .
12 . 4 Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations Hepatic Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following the administration of single oral doses of 20 mg in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B , score 7 - 9 ) and 8 subjects who were age - , gender - , and weight - matched to the hepatically - impaired subjects .
There was no change in memantine exposure ( based on Cmax and AUC ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
However , terminal elimination half - life increased by about 16 % in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
NAMENDA XR should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment as the pharmacokinetics of memantine have not been evaluated in that population .
Renal Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following single oral administration of 20 mg memantine HCl in 8 subjects with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance , CLcr , > 50 – 80 mL / min ) , 8 subjects with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 – 49 mL / min ) , 7 subjects with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 5 – 29 mL / min ) and 8 healthy subjects ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) matched as closely as possible by age , weight and gender to the subjects with renal impairment .
Mean AUC increased by 4 % , 60 % , and 115 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The terminal elimination half - life increased by 18 % , 41 % , and 95 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
0 - ∞ No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment .
Dosage should be reduced in patients with severe renal impairment See .
[ Dosage and Administration ( ) ] 2 Gender Following multiple dose administration of memantine HCl 20 mg daily , females had about 45 % higher exposure than males , but there was no difference in exposure when body weight was taken into account .
Elderly The pharmacokinetics of memantine in young and elderly subjects are similar .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in a 113 - week oral study in mice at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 7 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m basis ) .
There was also no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats orally dosed at up to 40 mg / kg / day for 71 weeks followed by 20 mg / kg / day ( 14 and 7 times the MRHD on a mg / m basis , respectively ) through 128 weeks .
22 Memantine produced no evidence of genotoxic potential when evaluated in the or reverse mutation assay , an chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , an cytogenetics assay for chromosome damage in rats , and the mouse micronucleus assay .
The results were equivocal in an gene mutation assay using Chinese hamster V79 cells .
in vitro S . typhimuriumE .
coliin vitroin vivoin vivoin vitro No impairment of fertility or reproductive performance was seen in rats administered up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m basis ) orally from 14 days prior to mating through gestation and lactation in females , or for 60 days prior to mating in males .
2 13 . 2 Animal Toxicology Memantine induced neuronal lesions ( vacuolation and necrosis ) in the multipolar and pyramidal cells in cortical layers III and IV of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial neocortices in rats , similar to those which are known to occur in rodents administered other NMDA receptor antagonists .
Lesions were seen after a single dose of memantine .
In a study in which rats were given daily oral doses of memantine for 14 days , the no - effect dose for neuronal necrosis was 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD of 28 mg / day ) on a mg / m basis .
2 In a neurotoxicity study , female rats were given oral doses of memantine ( 3 , 10 , 30 , 60 mg / kg / day ) alone or in combination with donepezil ( 3 , 10 mg / kg / day ) for 28 days .
When administered alone , memantine induced neurodegeneration only at 60 mg / kg / day ; however , when administered in combination with 10 mg / kg / day donepezil , memantine induced neurodegeneration at doses of 30 and 60 mg / kg / day .
When 60 mg / kg / day memantine and 10 mg / kg / day donepezil were administered in combination , the incidence and severity of neurodegeneration was increased compared to that with 60 mg / kg / day memantine alone or with 30 mg / kg / day memantine in combination with 10 mg / kg / day donepezil .
In addition , the combination of 60 mg / kg / day memantine and 10 mg / kg / day donepezil was associated with widespread neurodegeneration in cortical areas ( perirhinal , temporal , entorhinal , frontal , insular , piriform ) and in olfactory nucleus and subiculum , whereas in the other affected groups , there was limited cortical ( entorhinal , retrosplenial ) involvement .
At the no - effect level of the combination ( 10 mg / kg / day memantine + 10 mg / kg / day donepezil ) , plasma exposures of memantine were similar to ( AUC ) or two times ( Cmax ) those expected in humans at the MRHD ; plasma exposures of donepezil were 3 ( AUC ) or 6 ( Cmax ) times those in humans at the MRHD of donepezil ( 10 mg / day ) .
In a published study , similar donepezil - mediated exacerbation of memantine - induced neurodegeneration was observed in female rats given single doses of memantine in combination with donepezil , both administered by intraperitoneal injection .
The potential for induction of central neurodegenerative lesions by NMDA receptor antagonists in humans is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of NAMENDA XR as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease was based on the results of a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial .
24 - week Study of NAMENDA XR Capsules This was a randomized double - blind clinical investigation in outpatients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by DSM - IV criteria and NINCDS - ADRDA criteria for AD with a Mini Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) score ≥ 3 and ≤ 14 at Screening and Baseline ) receiving acetylcholinesterase inhibitor ( AChEI ) therapy at a stable dose for 3 months prior to screening .
The mean age of patients participating in this trial was 76 . 5 years with a range of 49 - 97 years .
Approximately 72 % of patients were female and 94 % were Caucasian .
Study Outcome Measures The effectiveness of NAMENDA XR was evaluated in this study using the co - primary efficacy parameters of Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) and the Clinician ' s Interview - Based Impression of Change ( CIBIC - Plus ) .
The ability of NAMENDA XR to improve cognitive performance was assessed with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) , a multi - item instrument that has been validated for the evaluation of cognitive function in patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The SIB examines selected aspects of cognitive performance , including elements of attention , orientation , language , memory , visuospatial ability , construction , praxis , and social interaction .
The SIB scoring range is from 0 to 100 , with lower scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
The ability of NAMENDA XR to produce an overall clinical effect was assessed using a Clinician ' s Interview Based Impression of Change that required the use of caregiver information , the CIBIC - Plus .
The CIBIC - Plus is not a single instrument and is not a standardized instrument like the ADCS - ADL or SIB .
Clinical trials for investigational drugs have used a variety of CIBIC formats , each different in terms of depth and structure .
As such , results from a CIBIC - Plus reflect clinical experience from the trial or trials in which it was used and cannot be compared directly with the results of CIBIC - Plus evaluations from other clinical trials .
The CIBIC - Plus used in this trial was a structured instrument based on a comprehensive evaluation at baseline and subsequent time - points of four domains : general ( overall clinical status ) , functional ( including activities of daily living ) , cognitive , and behavioral .
It represents the assessment of a skilled clinician using validated scales based on his / her observation during an interview with the patient , in combination with information supplied by a caregiver familiar with the behavior of the patient over the interval rated .
The CIBIC - Plus is scored as a seven point categorical rating , ranging from a score of 1 , indicating “ marked improvement ” to a score of 4 , indicating “ no change ” to a score of 7 , indicating “ marked worsening . ”
The CIBIC - Plus has not been systematically compared directly to assessments not using information from caregivers ( CIBIC ) or other global methods .
Study Results In this study , 677 patients were randomized to one of the following 2 treatments : NAMENDA XR 28 mg / day or placebo while still receiving an AChEI ( either donepezil , galantamine , or rivastigmine ) .
Effects on Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups completing the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the NAMENDA XR 28 mg / AChEI - treated ( combination therapy ) patients compared to the patients on placebo / AChEI ( monotherapy ) was 2 . 6 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , NAMENDA XR 28 mg / AChEI treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / AChEI .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of improvement in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to NAMENDA XR 28 mg / AChEI and placebo / AChEI have a wide range of responses , but that the NAMENDA XR 28 mg / AChEI group is more likely to show an improvement or a smaller decline .
Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] shows the time course for the CIBIC - Plus score for patients in the two treatment groups completing the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the CIBIC - Plus scores for the NAMENDA XR 28 mg / AChEI - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo / AChEI was 0 . 3 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , NAMENDA XR 28 mg / AChEI treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / AChEI .
Figure 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] is a histogram of the percentage distribution of CIBIC - Plus scores attained by patients assigned to each of the treatment groups who completed 24 weeks of treatment .
Figure 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 68151 - 5817 - 8 in a CUP of 1 CAPSULE , EXTENDED RELEASES Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling .
To assure safe and effective use of NAMENDA XR , the information and instructions provided in the patient information section should be discussed with patients and caregivers .
Patients and caregivers should be instructed to take NAMENDA XR only once per day , as prescribed .
Patients and caregivers should be instructed that NAMENDA XR capsules be swallowed whole .
Alternatively , NAMENDA XR capsules may be opened and sprinkled on applesauce and the entire contents should be consumed .
The capsules should not be divided , chewed or crushed .
Patients and caregivers should be advised that the product may cause headache , diarrhea and dizziness .
Manufactured for : Forest Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Subsidiary of Forest Laboratories , Inc .
St . Louis , MO 63045 Manufactured by : Forest Laboratories Ireland Ltd Licensed from Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH PATIENT INFORMATION NAMENDA XR [ Nuh - MEN - dah Eks - Are ] ( memantine hydrochloride ) Extended Release Capsules What is NAMENDA XR and what is it used for ?
NAMENDA XR belongs to a class of substances called NMDA antagonists .
It is used for the treatment of patients with Alzheimer ' s disease .
Do not take NAMENDA XR in the following cases : If you know that you are allergic ( hyper - sensitive ) to memantine ( the active substance in NAMENDA XR ) or to any of the other ingredients of NAMENDA XR [ see ] .
Description ( ) 11 Take special care with NAMENDA XR if : • You have , or ever had seizures .
• You have , or ever had difficulty passing urine .
If any of these apply to you , your doctor may need to monitor you more closely while you are on this medicine .
NAMENDA XR with food and drink : NAMENDA XR may be taken with or without food .
NAMENDA XR capsules may be opened and sprinkled on applesauce before swallowing , but the contents of the entire capsule should be taken and the dose should not be divided .
Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce , NAMENDA XR capsules must be swallowed whole and never crushed , divided or chewed [ see ] .
Dosage and Administration ( ) 2 NAMENDA XR and older people : NAMENDA XR can be used by patients over the age of 65 , as well as by patients with Alzheimer ' s Disease who are aged 65 years or younger .
NAMENDA XR and children : The use of NAMENDA XR in children is not recommended .
Pregnant women : Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
In the event of pregnancy , the benefits of NAMENDA XR must be assessed against the possible effects on your unborn child .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine during pregnancy .
Breast - feeding mothers : You should not breast - feed during treatment with NAMENDA XR .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine while you are breast - feeding .
Taking other medicines : Tell your doctor or pharmacist about any other medicines you are taking or have recently taken , including any you have taken without a prescription .
How to use NAMENDA XR : Follow all instructions given to you by your doctor carefully , even if they differ from the ones given in this leaflet .
How to start treatment : Treatment begins at a low dose ( 7 mg , once a day ) and is gradually increased until the target dose ( 28 mg , once a day ) is reached .
To be effective , NAMENDA XR must be taken correctly , according to the following schedule : Week 1 : Start on Day 1 Take one 7 mg capsule each day .
Week 2 : Start on Day 8 Take one 14 mg capsule each day .
Week 3 : Start on Day 15 Take one 21 mg capsule each day .
Week 4 : Start on Day 22 Take one 28 mg capsule each day .
Once the target dose ( 28 mg , once a day ) has been reached , you can continue with that daily schedule unless told otherwise by your healthcare professional .
( For patients with severe renal impairment , 14 mg once a day is the recommended dose . )
During the course of treatment , your healthcare professional may change the dose to suit your individual needs .
If you are currently taking another formulation of memantine , talk to your healthcare professional about how to switch to NAMENDA XR .
What to do if you take more NAMENDA XR capsules than you should : If you accidentally take more NAMENDA XR capsules than you should , inform your healthcare professional that you have accidentally taken more NAMENDA XR than you should have .
You may require medical attention .
Some people who have accidentally taken too much memantine have experienced dizziness , unsteadiness , weakness , tiredness , confusion , as well as other symptoms .
If you forget to take NAMENDA XR : If you forget to take one dose of NAMENDA XR , do not double - up on your next dose .
Take only your next dose as scheduled .
If you have forgotten to take NAMENDA XR for several days , do not take the next dose until you have talked to your healthcare professional .
Possible side effects : Like all medicines , NAMENDA XR can cause side effects , although not everyone gets them .
Do not be alarmed by this list of possible side effects .
You may not experience any of them .
The most common side effects in patients taking NAMENDA XR were headache , diarrhea and dizziness .
How to store NAMENDA XR : Do not use NAMENDA XR after the expiration date shown on the carton and bottle .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not use any capsules of NAMENDA XR that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
Keep NAMENDA XR out of the reach and sight of children and pets .
Manufactured for : Forest Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Subsidiary of Forest Laboratories , Inc .
St . Louis , MO 63045 Manufactured by : Forest Laboratories Ireland Ltd Licensed from Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH NAMENDA XR ( MEMANTINE HYDROCHLORIDE ) CAPSULE , EXTENDED RELEASE NAMENDA XR ( MEMANTINE HYDROCHLORIDE ) KIT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
