Active ingredient ( in each capsule ) Lansoprazole 15 mg Purpose Acid reducer Use • treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn ; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to lansoprazole .
Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • warfarin ( blood - thinning medicine ) • prescription antifungal or anti - yeast medicines • digoxin ( heart medicine ) • theophylline ( asthma medicine ) • tacrolimus ( immune system medicine ) • atazanavir ( medicine for HIV infection ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14 - Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • swallow whole .
Do not crush or chew capsules .
• do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 - Day Courses ( if needed ) • you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor .
Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of this therapy .
• children under 18 years of age : ask a doctor before use .
Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition .
Other information • read the directions , warnings and package insert before use • keep the carton and package insert .
They contain important information .
• store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • keep product out of high heat and humidity • protect product from moisture Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , D & C red No . 33 , D & C yellow No . 10 , FD & C blue No . 1 , FD & C red No . 40 , gelatin , hypromellose , magnesium carbonate , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sucrose , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel 24 Hour Heartburn Relief Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules , 15 mg Acid Reducer May take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours Clinically Proven to Treat Frequent Heartburn Sodium Free Capsules Compare to the active ingredient in Prevacid ® 24 HR * * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Prevacid ® , or by Novartis Consumer Health , Inc . , distributor of the Prevacid ® 24 HR product .
KEEP OUTER CARTON AND PACKAGE INSERT .
THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION .
TAMPER - EVIDENT BOTTLE : DO NOT USE IF INNER FOIL SEAL IMPRINTED WITH “ SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION ” OR DARK BLUE TO BLACK GELATIN BAND AROUND THE CENTER OF EACH CAPSULE IS MISSING OR BROKEN .
DISTRIBUTED BY : fred ' s , Inc .
4300 New Getwell Rd , Memphis TN 38118 www . fredsinc . com Product of India Product label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
