active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 12 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( See Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control right away .
Directions • apply liberaly 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especialy from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , styrene / acrylates copolymer , silica , butyloctyl salicylate , diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - naphthalate , VP / hexadecene copolymer , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , behenyl alcohol , dimethicone , caprylyl methicone , trimethylsiloxysilicate , sodium polyacrylate , chlorphenesin , benzyl alcohol , glycerin , xanthan gum , fragrance , disodium EDTA , BHT May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces ** This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc . , distributor of Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry - Touch Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 55 .
* Oxybenzone and octinoxate free Proudly Distributed By : Harris Teeter , LLC Matthews , NC 28105 1 - 800 - 432 - 6111 or harristeeter . com 920 . 000 / 920 AA principal display panel Harris Teeter COMPARE TO NEUTROGENA ULTRA SHEER SUNSCREEN ** SHEER TOUCH SUNSCREEN LOTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 55 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) Lightweight formula Dermatologist tested 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
