Active Ingredient Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus Oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Cough suppressant Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings : For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before you use if you have • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • Persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water may cause spattering and results in burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pain persist for more that 7 days or come back • cough lasts more that 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Remove cap and twist up tube .
See important warnings under " When using this product " • adults and children 2 years and over : • rub a thick layer on chest and throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years do not ues .
Other Information : store at room temperature Inactive Ingredient : Beeswax , cedar leaf oil , mineral oil , nutmeg oil , petrolatum , thymol , turpentine oil and vitamin e ( tocopherol acetate ) Questions or Comments ?
1 - 855 - 747 - 7007 Distributed by : Walgreen Co 200 Wilmot Rd . , Deerfield , IL 6001 100 % Satisfaction Guarantee Walgreens . com © 2014 Walgreen Co .
Prinicipal Display Panel Chest Rub Cough Suppressant / Topical Analgesic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
