DESCRIPTION Brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup , 2 mg / 30 mg / 10 mg per 5 mL is a clear , light pink syrup with a butterscotch flavour .
Each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) contains : Brompheniramine Maleate , USP 2 mg Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride , USP 30 mg Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide , USP 10 mg Alcohol 0 . 95 % v / v In a palatable , aromatic vehicle .
Inactive Ingredients : artificial butterscotch flavor , citric acid anhydrous , alcohol , FD & C Red No . 40 , glycerin , sucrose , methylparaben , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium benzoate .
It may contain 10 % citric acid solution or 10 % sodium citrate solution for pH adjustment .
The pH range is between 4 . 0 and 6 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Brompheniramine Maleate , USP ( ± ) - 2 - p - Bromo - α - 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethylbenzylpyridine maleate ( 1 : 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride , USP ( + ) - Pseudoephedrine hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide , USP 3 - Methoxy - 17 - methyl - 9α , 13α , 14α - morphinan hydrobromide monohydrate Antihistamine / Nasal Decongestant / Antitussive syrup for oral administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Brompheniramine maleate is a histamine antagonist , specifically an H1 - receptor - blocking agent belonging to the alkylamine class of antihistamines .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for receptor sites on effector cells .
Brompheniramine also has anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative effects .
Among the antihistaminic effects , it antagonizes the allergic response ( vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , increased mucus secretion ) of nasal tissue .
Brompheniramine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , with peak plasma concentration after single , oral dose of 4 mg reached in 5 hours ; urinary excretion is the major route of elimination , mostly as products of biodegradation ; the liver is assumed to be the main site of metabolic transformation .
Pseudoephedrine acts on sympathetic nerve endings and also on smooth muscle , making it useful as a nasal decongestant .
The nasal decongestant effect is mediated by the action of pseudoephedrine on α - sympathetic receptors , producing vasoconstriction of the dilated nasal arterioles .
Following oral administration , effects are noted within 30 minutes with peak activity occurring at approximately one hour .
Dextromethorphan acts centrally to elevate the threshold for coughing .
It has no analgesic or addictive properties .
The onset of antitussive action occurs in 15 to 30 minutes after administration and is of long duration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms , including nasal congestion , associated with allergy or the common cold .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Do not use in the newborn , in premature infants , in nursing mothers , or in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease .
Do not use dextromethorphan in patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAOI ) inhibitors ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract conditions including asthma .
WARNINGS Especially in infants and small children , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , and death .
Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness .
In the young child , they may produce excitation .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of its antihistamine component , brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup should be used with caution in patients with a history of bronchial asthma , narrow angle glaucoma , gastrointestinal obstruction , or urinary bladder neck obstruction .
Because of its sympathomimetic component , brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup should be used with caution in patients with diabetes , hypertension , heart disease , or thyroid disease .
Information for Patients Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness , such as driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Drug Interactions Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors Hyperpyrexia , hypotension , and death have been reported coincident with the coadministration of MAO inhibitors and products containing dextromethorphan .
In addition , MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines and may enhance the effect of pseudoephedrine .
Concomitant administration of brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup and MAO inhibitors should be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants Antihistamines have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , antianxiety agents , etc . ) Antihypertensive drugs Sympathomimetic may reduce the effects of antihypertensive drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies of Brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup to assess the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been performed .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup .
It is also not known whether brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
It should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Reproduction studies of brompheniramine maleate ( a component of brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup ) in rats and mice at doses up to 16 times the maximum human doses have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of intolerance of antihistamines in small infants generally , and in newborns and prematures in particular , brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
However , antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
The elderly are also more likely to experience adverse reactions to sympathomimetics .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup are : sedation ; dryness of mouth , nose and throat ; thickening of bronchial secretions ; dizziness .
Other adverse reactions may include : Dermatologic : Urticaria , drug rash , photosensitivity , pruritus .
Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , hypertension , cardiac arrhythmias , palpitation .
CNS : Disturbed coordination , tremor , irritability , insomnia , visual disturbances , weakness , nervousness , convulsions , headache , euphoria , and dysphoria .
G . U . System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination .
G . I . System : Epigastric discomfort , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
Respiratory System : Tightness of chest and wheezing , shortness of breath .
Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Central nervous system effects from overdosage of brompheniramine may vary from depression to stimulation , especially in children .
Anticholinergic effects may be noted .
Toxic doses of pseudoephedrine may result in CNS stimulation , tachycardia , hypertension , and cardiac arrhythmias ; signs of CNS depression may occasionally be seen .
Dextromethorphan in toxic doses will cause drowsiness , ataxia , nystagmus , opisthotonos , and convulsive seizures .
Toxic Doses Data suggest that individuals may respond in an unexpected manner to apparently small amounts of a particular drug .
A 2 ½ - year - old child survived the ingestion of 21 mg / kg of dextromethorphan exhibiting only ataxia , drowsiness , and fever , but seizures have been reported in 2 children following the ingestion of 13 - 17 mg / kg .
Another 2 ½ - year - old child survived a dose of 300 - 900 mg of brompheniramine .
The toxic dose of pseudoephedrine should be less than that of ephedrine , which is estimated to be 50 mg / kg .
Treatment Induce emesis if patient is alert and is seen prior to 6 hours following ingestion .
Precautions against aspiration must be taken , especially in infants and small children .
Gastric lavage may be carried out , although in some instances tracheostomy may be necessary prior to lavage .
Naloxone hydrochloride 0 . 005 mg / kg intravenously may be of value in reversing the CNS depression that may occur from an overdose of dextromethorphan .
CNS stimulants may counter CNS depression . Should CNS hyperactivity or convulsive seizures occur , intravenous shortacting barbiturates may be indicated .
Hypertensive responses and / or tachycardia should be treated appropriately .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and over : 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) every 4 hours .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) every 4 hours .
Children 2 to under 6 years of age : 2 . 5 mL ( ½ teaspoonful ) every 4 hours .
Infants 6 months to under 2 years of age : Dosage to be established by a physician .
Do not exceed 6 doses during a 24 - hour period .
HOW SUPPLIED Brompheniramine maleate , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup is a clear , light pink - colored , butterscotch - flavored syrup containing in each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) brompheniramine maleate 2 mg , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride 30 mg and dextromethorphan hydrobromide 10 mg , available in the following sizes : 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) NDC 71930 - 026 - 18 1 pint ( 473 mL ) NDC 71930 - 026 - 43 RECOMMENDED STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP Rx Only Manufactured by : WES Pharma Inc Westminster , MD – 21157 USA Distributed by : Eywa Pharma Inc . , 2 Research Way , Floor 3 , Princeton , NJ 08540 REV . 04 / 20 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 pint ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
