1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is a combination of aclidinium bromide ( an anticholinergic ) and formoterol fumarate ( a LABA ) indicated for the maintenance treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
Limitations of Use : DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or for the treatment of asthma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is a combination of aclidinium bromide an anticholinergic , and formoterol fumarate , a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) indicated for the maintenance treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or for the treatment of asthma .
( 1 , 5 . 4 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is one oral inhalation of 400 mcg / 12 mcg , twice daily ( once in the morning and once in the evening ) .
Do not take more than one inhalation twice daily .
• • For oral inhalation only .
( 2 ) • • 400 mcg / 12 mcg , twice daily ( once in the morning and once in the evening ) .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Inhalation Powder .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is a breath - actuated multi - dose dry powder inhaler metering 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide and 12 mcg of formoterol fumarate per actuation .
• • Inhalation Powder .
( 3 ) • • Breath - actuated multi - dose dry powder inhaler metering 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide and 12 mcg of formoterol fumarate per actuation .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) , including formoterol fumarate , one of the active ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , without an inhaled corticosteroid is contraindicated in patients with asthma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not indicated for the treatment of asthma .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is contraindicated in patients with : • • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity to aclidinium bromide , formoterol fumarate , or to any component of the product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • Use of a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) , including formoterol fumarate , one of the active ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , without an inhaled corticosteroid is contraindicated in patients with asthma .
( 1 , 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to aclidinium bromide or formoterol fumarate or to any component of this product .
( 4 , 5 . 5 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Asthma - related death : Long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonists as monotherapy ( without an inhaled corticosteroid ) for asthma increase the risk of serious asthma - related events .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating COPD or to treat acute symptoms .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing a LABA because of risk of overdose .
( 5 . 3 ) • • If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , discontinue DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and institute alternative therapy .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , thyrotoxicosis , diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Be alert to hypokalemia and hyperglycemia .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma may occur .
Use with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma and instruct patients to contact a physician immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 9 ) • • Worsening urinary retention may occur .
Use with caution in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction and instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Serious Asthma - Related Events - Hospitalizations , Intubations , Death • • The safety and efficacy of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in patients with asthma have not been established .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not indicated for the treatment of asthma .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• • Use of LABA as monotherapy [ without inhaled corticosteroids ( ICS ) ] for asthma is associated with an increased risk of asthma - related death .
Available data from controlled clinical trials also suggest that use of LABA as monotherapy increases the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy .
When LABA are used in fixed - dose combination with ICS , data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma - related events ( hospitalizations , intubations , death ) compared with ICS alone .
• • A 28 - week , placebo - controlled , U . S . trial comparing the safety of another LABA ( salmeterol ) with placebo , each added to usual asthma therapy , showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol ( 13 / 13 , 176 in subjects treated with salmeterol vs 3 / 13 , 179 in subjects treated with placebo ; relative risk : 4 . 37 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 25 , 15 . 34 ] ) .
The increased risk of asthma - related death is considered a class effect of LABAs , including formoterol fumarate , one of the active ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
• • No trial adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma - related deaths is increased in subjects treated with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR has been conducted .
• • Available data do not suggest an increased risk of death with use of LABA in patients with COPD .
5 . 2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should not be initiated in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD , which may be a life - threatening condition .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD .
The use of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in this setting is inappropriate .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is intended as twice daily maintenance treatment for COPD and should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms , i . e . , as rescue therapy for treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose .
Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short - acting beta2 - agonist .
When beginning treatment with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , patients who have been taking oral or inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists on a regular basis ( e . g . , four times a day ) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms .
When prescribing DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used .
Increasing inhaled beta2 - agonist use is a signal of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is indicated .
COPD may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If DUAKLIR PRESSAIR no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction ; the patient ’ s inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist becomes less effective ; or the patient needs more short - acting beta2 - agonist than usual , these may be markers of deterioration of disease .
In this setting , a re - evaluation of the patient and the COPD treatment regimen should be undertaken at once .
Increasing the daily dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR beyond the recommended dose is not appropriate in this situation .
5 . 3 Excessive Use of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and Use with Other Long - Acting Beta2 Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta - agonists , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should not be used more often than recommended , at higher doses than recommended , or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs , as an overdose may result .
Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs .
Patients using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should not use another medicine containing a LABA for any reason [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Paradoxical Bronchospasm Inhaled medicines , including DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , may cause paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , it should be treated immediately with an inhaled , short acting bronchodilator .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should be discontinued immediately , and alternative therapies should be instituted .
5 . 5 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema ( including swelling of the lips , tongue , or throat ) , urticaria , rash , bronchospasm , or itching , have occurred after administration of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
If such a reaction occurs , therapy with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should be stopped at once and alternative treatments should be considered .
5 . 6 Cardiovascular Effects Formoterol fumarate , like other beta agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate , systolic or diastolic or blood pressure , or symptoms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
If such effects occur , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression , although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should be used with caution in patients with severe cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
5 . 7 Coexisting Conditions DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , like other medications containing sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , thyrotoxicosis , and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Doses of the related beta - agonist albuterol , when administered intravenously , have been reported to aggravate pre - existing diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
5 . 8 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta - agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Beta - agonist medications may produce transient hyperglycemia in some patients .
In 4 clinical trials of 24 to 52 weeks duration evaluating DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in patients with COPD , there was no evidence of a treatment effect on serum glucose or potassium .
5 . 9 Worsening of Narrow - Angle Glaucoma DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should be used with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma .
Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos , or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
5 . 10 Worsening of Urinary Retention DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should be used with caution in patients with urinary retention or bladder neck obstruction .
Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , painful urination ) , especially in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder neck obstruction .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs , such as formoterol fumarate , one of the active ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , increase the risk of asthma - related death .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not indicated for the treatment of asthma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The following adverse reactions are described in greater detail elsewhere in the labeling : • • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Cardiovascular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • • Worsening of urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % and more common than with placebo ) include : upper respiratory tract infection , headache and , back pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AstraZeneca at 1 - 800 - 236 - 9933 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical program for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR included 6501 subjects with COPD in 2 placebo - controlled and 1 active - controlled 24 - week lung function trials , one long - term safety extension study of 28 weeks and 2 other clinical trials .
A total of 1893 subjects have received at least 1 dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
24 - Week Trials The frequency of common adverse reactions in Table 1 below is based upon pooled data from two , double - blind , placebo - controlled parallel group clinical trials ( Trials 1 and 2 , n = 1729 and n = 1669 ) in 3398 adult patients with moderate to severe COPD .
Of these , 60 % were male and 94 % were Caucasian .
They had a mean age of 64 years and an average smoking history of 46 pack - years , with 49 % identified as current smokers .
At screening , the mean post - bronchodilator percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( FEV1 ) was 54 % ( range : 28 % to 80 % ) and the mean percent reversibility was 15 % ( range : - 19 % to 69 % ) .
Table 1 shows all adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency of greater than or equal to 3 % in the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR group in the two 24 - week placebo - controlled trials where the rates in the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR group exceeded placebo .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ≥ 3 % Incidence and More Common than with Placebo in Subjects with COPD Treatment Adverse Reactions Preferred Term DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ( N = 720 ) % Aclidinium ( N = 722 ) % Formoterol ( N = 716 ) % Placebo ( N = 526 ) % Upper respiratory tract infection [ 1 ] 8 . 9 7 . 6 8 . 9 6 . 3 Headache 6 . 3 6 . 6 7 . 7 5 . 1 Back pain 3 . 8 3 . 3 3 . 5 3 . 4 [ 1 ] Includes Viral Upper Respiratory Tract Infection and Upper Respiratory Tract Infection Other adverse reactions reported in clinical studies with an incidence of > 1 % but less than 3 % with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR but more common than with placebo were cough , sinusitis , influenza , tooth abscess , insomnia , dizziness , dry mouth , oropharyngeal pain , muscle spasms , musculoskeletal pain , arthralgia , pain in extremity , urinary tract infection , and blood creatine phosphokinase increased .
The adverse events reported in the 24 - week active - controlled trial were consistent with those observed in 24 - week placebo - controlled trials .
Long - Term Safety Extension Trial In a 28 - week safety extension trial , 918 subjects who successfully completed Trial 2 were treated for up to an additional 28 weeks for a total treatment period of up to 52 weeks with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , aclidinium 400 mcg , formoterol fumarate 12 mcg administered twice daily or placebo .
Because the subjects continued from Trial 2 into the safety extension trial , the demographic and baseline characteristics of the long - term safety extension trial were similar to those of the placebo - controlled efficacy trials described above .
The adverse reactions reported in the long - term safety trial were consistent with those observed in the 24 - week placebo - controlled trials .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
• • Use of other adrenergic by any route may potentiate the effect of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Use with caution .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • • Xanthine derivatives , steroids , diuretics or non - potassium sparing diuretics may potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes .
Use with caution .
( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) • • Diuretics : Use with caution .
Electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia associated with non - potassium sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta2 - agonists .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants : Use with extreme caution .
May potentiate effect of formoterol fumarate on cardiovascular system .
( 7 . 4 ) • • Beta - blockers : Use with caution and only when medically necessary .
( 7 . 5 ) • • Anticholinergics : May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Avoid administrations of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR with other anticholinergic - containing drugs .
( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 Adrenergic Drugs If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route , they should be used with caution because the sympathetic effects of formoterol , a component of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
7 . 2 Xanthine Derivatives , Steroids Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives , or steroids may potentiate any hypokalemic effect of beta - adrenergic agonists such as formoterol , a component of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
7 . 3 Non - Potassium Sparing Diuretics The electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non - potassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with non – potassium - sparing diuretics .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants , QTc Prolonging Drugs DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , as with other drugs containing beta2 - agonists , should be administered with caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants , or other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval , because the action of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents .
Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias .
7 . 5 Beta - Blockers Beta - adrenergic receptor antagonists ( beta - blockers ) and DUAKLIR PRESSAIR may inhibit the effect of each other when administered concurrently .
Beta - blockers not only block the therapeutic effects of beta2 - agonists , such as formoterol , a component of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , but may produce severe bronchospasm in COPD patients .
Therefore , patients with COPD should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - blockers in patients with COPD .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
7 . 6 Anticholinergics There is a potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Therefore , avoid coadministration of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR with other anticholinergic - containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR or its individual components , formoterol fumarate or aclidinium bromide , in pregnant women to inform drug - associated risks .
No adverse developmental effects were seen with inhalation administration of aclidinium bromide to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at 15 or 20 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose ( MRHDID ) .
However , reduced pup weights were seen when pregnant rats continued inhalation administration through lactation at 5 times the MRHDID of aclidinium bromide .
Adverse developmental effects occurred when rabbits were orally dosed with aclidinium bromide at approximately 1 , 400 times the MRHDID [ see Data ] .
Formoterol fumarate alone , administered by the oral route , was teratogenic in rats and rabbits at 1 , 200 and 49 , 000 times the MRHDID , respectively .
Formoterol fumarate was also embryocidal , increased pup loss at birth and during lactation , and decreased pup weight in rats at 85 times the MRHDID .
These adverse effects generally occurred at large multiples of the MRHDID when formoterol fumarate was administered by the oral route to achieve high systemic exposures .
No teratogenic , embryocidal , or developmental effects were seen in rats that received inhalation doses up to 280 times the MRHDID [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage of the indicated populations is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Labor or Delivery There are no well - controlled human studies that have investigated the effects of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR during labor and delivery .
Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Data Animal Data Aclidinium bromide In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 - 17 , no evidence of structural alterations was observed at approximately 15 times the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose ( MRHDID ) [ based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites at inhaled doses less than or equal to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day ] .
However , in a pre - and post - natal development study , decreased pup weights were observed when pregnant rats were exposed from gestation day 6 and continuing during the lactation period at approximately 5 times the MRHDID [ based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites at inhaled doses greater than or equal to 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ] .
Maternal toxicity was also observed at inhaled doses greater than or equal to 0 . 2 mg / kg / day .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant Himalayan rabbits administered inhaled doses of aclidinium bromide during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 - 19 , no evidence of structural alterations was observed at approximately 20 times the MRHDID [ based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites at inhaled doses less than or equal to 3 . 6 mg / kg / day ] .
However , in another embryo - fetal development study in pregnant Himalayan rabbits dosed orally from gestation days 6 - 19 , increased incidences of additional liver lobes ( 3 - 5 % ) , as compared to 0 % in the control group , were observed at approximately 1 , 400 times the MRHDID [ based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites at oral doses greater than or equal to 150 mg / kg / day ] , and decreased fetal body weights were observed at approximately 2 , 300 times the MRHDID [ based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites at oral doses greater than or equal to 300 mg / kg / day ] .
These fetal findings were observed in the presence of maternal toxicity .
Formoterol fumarate In a fertility and reproduction study , male rats were orally dosed for 9 weeks and females for 2 weeks prior to pairing and throughout the mating period .
Females were either dosed up to gestation day 19 or up until weaning of their offspring .
Males were dosed up to 25 weeks .
Umbilical hernia was observed in rat fetuses at oral doses 1 , 200 times and greater than the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal oral doses of 3 mg / kg / day and higher ) .
Brachygnathia , abnormal shortness of the mandible , was observed in rat fetuses at a dose 6 , 000 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 15 mg / kg / day ) .
Pregnancy was prolonged at a dose 6 , 000 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 15 mg / kg / day ) .
Fetal and pup deaths occurred at doses approximately 1 , 200 times the MRHDID and higher ( on a mg / m2 basis at oral doses of 3 mg / kg / day and higher ) during gestation .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 - 15 , no teratogenic , embryocidal or developmental effects were seen at doses up to 280 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis with maternal inhalation doses up to 0 . 69 mg / kg / day ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 - 18 , subcapsular cysts on the liver were observed in the fetuses at a dose 49 , 000 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis with a maternal oral dose of 60 mg / kg / day ) .
No teratogenic effects were observed at doses up to 2 , 800 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal oral doses up to 3 . 5 mg / kg / day ) .
In a pre - and post - natal development study , pregnant female rats received formoterol at oral doses of 0 , 0 . 21 , 0 . 84 , and 3 . 4 mg / kg / day from gestation day 6 through the lactation period .
Pup survival was decreased from birth to postpartum day 26 at doses 85 times the MRHDID and higher ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal oral doses of 0 . 21 mg / kg / day and higher ) , although there was no evidence of a dose - response relationship .
There were no treatment - related effects on the physical , functional , and behavioral development of rat pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the effects of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , aclidinium bromide , or formoterol fumarate on the breastfed child or on milk production or presence in human milk .
Both aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate are present in rat milk [ see Data ] .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from DUAKLIR PRESSAIR or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data In a pharmacokinetic study , levels of radioactivity in milk and plasma in rats were measured after a single intravenous dose of 1 mg / kg of radiolabeled aclidinium bromide on approximately post - natal day 14 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
The maximum concentration of radioactivity [ 14 C aclidinium ] in milk was measured at 6 hours post - dose and was found to be 10 - 14 times higher than in plasma .
In the fertility and reproduction study in rats , plasma levels of formoterol were measured in pups on post - natal day 15 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
It was estimated that the maximum plasma concentration that the pups received from the maternal animal , at the highest dose of 15 mg / kg , after nursing was 4 . 4 % ( 0 . 24 nmol / L for a litter vs . 5 . 5 nmol / L for the mother ) .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not indicated for use in children .
The safety and effectiveness of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in the pediatric population have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Based on available data for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR or its active components , no adjustment of dosage in geriatric patients is warranted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Of the 720 COPD patients exposed to DUAKLIR PRESSAIR for 24 weeks in two placebo - controlled clinical trials , 238 were less than 60 years , 301 were greater than or equal to 60 to less than 70 years , and 181 were greater than or equal to 70 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Formal pharmacokinetic studies using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR have not been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Based on available data for aclidinium and formoterol , no adjustment of dosage in hepatically impaired subjects is warranted .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Formal pharmacokinetic studies using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR have not been conducted in patients with renal impairment .
Based on available data for aclidinium and formoterol , no adjustment of dosage in renally impaired subjects is warranted .
10 OVERDOSAGE DUAKLIR PRESSAIR contains both aclidinium and formoterol fumarate ; therefore , the risks associated with overdosage for the individual components described below apply to DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
The most common symptoms are blurred vision , dry mouth , nausea , muscle spasms , tremor , headache , palpitations , and systolic hypertension .
Treatment of overdosage consists of discontinuation of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR together with institution of appropriate symptomatic and / or supportive therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION DUAKLIR PRESSAIR consists of a dry powder formulation of aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate for oral inhalation only .
Aclidinium bromide , is an anticholinergic with specificity for muscarinic receptors .
Aclidinium bromide is a synthetic , quaternary ammonium compound , chemically described as 1 - azoniabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] octane , 3 - [ ( hydroxydi - 2 - thienylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 - ( 3 - phenoxypropyl ) - , bromide , ( 3 R ) - .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aclidinium bromide is a white powder with a molecular formula of C26H30 NO4S2Br and a molecular mass of 564 . 56 .
It is very slightly soluble in water and ethanol and sparingly soluble in methanol .
Formoterol fumarate , a racemate , is a selective beta2 - adrenergic agonist .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) - 2 - hydroxy - 5 - [ ( 1 RS ) - 1 - hydroxy - 2 - [ [ ( 1 RS ) - 2 - ( 4 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 methylethyl ] - amino ] ethyl ] formanilide fumarate dihydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Formoterol fumarate ( as a dihydrate ) has a molecular weight of 840 . 91 , and its molecular formula is ( C19H24N2O4 ) 2 • C4H4O4 • 2H2O .
Formoterol fumarate is a white to yellowish crystalline powder , which is freely soluble in glacial acetic acid , soluble in methanol , sparingly soluble in ethanol and isopropanol , slightly soluble in water , and practically insoluble in acetone , ethyl acetate , and diethyl ether .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is a breath - actuated multi - dose dry powder inhaler .
Each actuation of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR provides a metered dose of 12 mg of the formulation which contains lactose monohydrate ( which may contain milk proteins ) as the carrier , 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide ( equivalent to 343 mcg of aclidinium ) , and 12 . 0 mcg of formoterol fumarate ( as a dihydrate , equivalent to 11 . 5 mcg of formoterol fumarate anhydrous and 9 . 8 mcg of formoterol ) .
This results in delivery of 396 mcg of aclidinium bromide ( equivalent to 340 mcg of aclidinium ) and 11 . 8 mcg of formoterol fumarate ( as a dihydrate , equivalent to 11 . 3 mcg of formoterol fumarate anhydrous and 9 . 7 mcg of formoterol ) from the mouthpiece , based on in vitro testing at an average flow rate of approximately 63 L / min with constant volume of 2 L .
The amount of drug delivered to the lungs will vary depending on patient factors such as inspiratory flow rate and inspiratory time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action DUAKLIR PRESSAIR DUAKLIR PRESSAIR contains two bronchodilators : aclidinium a long - acting muscarinic antagonist ( also known as an anticholinergic ) and formoterol a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist .
Further information regarding these two substances is provided below .
The mechanism of action described below for the individual components apply to DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
These drugs represent two different classes of medications ( a long - acting antimuscarinic agent and a selective long - acting beta2 - adrenergic receptor agonist ) that have different effects on clinical and physiological indices of COPD .
Aclidinium bromide Aclidinium bromide is a long - acting antimuscarinic agent , which is often referred to as an anticholinergic .
It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors M1 to M5 .
In the airways , it exhibits pharmacological effects through inhibition of M3 receptors at the smooth muscle leading to bronchodilation .
The competitive and reversible nature of antagonism was shown with human and animal origin receptors and isolated organ preparations .
In preclinical in vitro as well as in vivo studies , prevention of acetylcholine - induced bronchoconstriction effects was dose - dependent and lasted longer than 24 hours .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
The bronchodilation following inhalation of aclidinium bromide is predominantly a site - specific effect .
Formoterol fumarate Formoterol fumarate is a long - acting selective beta2 - adrenergic receptor agonist ( LABA ) ( beta2 - agonist ) .
Inhaled formoterol fumarate acts locally in the lung as a bronchodilator .
In - vitro studies have shown that formoterol has more than 200 - fold greater agonist activity at beta2 - receptors than at beta1 - receptors .
The in - vitro binding selectivity to beta2 - over beta1 - adrenoceptors is higher for formoterol than for albuterol ( 5 times ) , whereas salmeterol has a higher ( 3 times ) beta ‑ selectivity ratio than formoterol .
Although beta2 - receptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and beta1 - receptors are the predominant receptors in the heart , there are also beta2 - receptors in the human heart comprising 10 % to 50 % of the total beta - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established , but they raise the possibility that even highly selective beta2 - agonists may have cardiac effects .
The pharmacologic effects of beta2 - adrenoceptor agonist drugs , including formoterol , are at least in part attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase , the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
In vitro tests show that formoterol is an inhibitor of the release of mast cell mediators , such as histamine and leukotrienes , from the human lung .
Formoterol also inhibits histamine - induced plasma albumin extravasation in anesthetized guinea pigs and inhibits allergen - induced eosinophil influx in dogs with airway hyper responsiveness .
The relevance of these in vitro and animal findings to humans is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiovascular effects DUAKLIR PRESSAIR The effect of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR on cardiac rhythm was assessed in a subset of subjects using 24 - hour Holter monitoring in the 24 - week placebo - controlled trials .
The Holter monitoring population included 114 subjects on DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , 118 subjects on aclidinium bromide 400 mcg , 121 subjects on formoterol fumarate 12 mcg , and 81 subjects on placebo .
No clinically meaningful effects on cardiac rhythm were observed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following twice - daily oral inhalation administration of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in COPD patients , mean maximum aclidinium and formoterol concentrations of 128 pg / mL and 17 pg / mL , respectively , occurred within 5 minutes after inhalation .
Steady state was achieved within 5 days .
Distribution Aclidinium : Aclidinium shows a volume of distribution of approximately 300 L following intravenous administration of 400 mcg in humans .
Formoterol : Over the concentration range of 10 - 500 nmol / L , plasma protein binding for the RR and SS enantiomers of formoterol was 46 % and 58 % , respectively .
The concentrations of formoterol used to assess the plasma protein binding were higher than those achieved in plasma following inhalation of a single 54 mcg dose .
Elimination Metabolism Aclidinium : Clinical pharmacokinetics studies , including a mass balance study , indicate that the major route of metabolism of aclidinium is hydrolysis , which occurs both chemically and enzymatically by esterases .
Aclidinium is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed in plasma to its alcohol and dithienylglycolic acid derivatives , neither of which binds to muscarinic receptors and are devoid of pharmacologic activity .
Therefore , due to the low plasma levels achieved at the clinically relevant doses , aclidinium and its metabolites are not expected to alter the disposition of drugs metabolized by the human CYP450 enzymes .
Formoterol : Metabolism of formoterol is primarily by direct glucuronidation and by O - demethylation followed by conjugation to inactive metabolites .
Secondary metabolic pathways include deformylation and sulfate conjugation .
CYP2D6 and CYP2C have been identified as being primarily responsible for O - demethylation .
Excretion Aclidinium : Total clearance was approximately 170 L / h after an intravenous dose of aclidinium bromide in young healthy volunteers with an inter - individual variability of 36 % .
Intravenously administered radiolabeled aclidinium bromide was administered to healthy volunteers and was extensively metabolized with 1 % excreted as unchanged aclidinium .
Approximately 54 % to 65 % of the radioactivity was excreted in urine and 20 % to 33 % of the dose was excreted in feces .
The combined results indicated that almost the entire aclidinium bromide dose was eliminated by hydrolysis .
After dry powder inhalation , urinary excretion of aclidinium is about 0 . 09 % of the dose and the estimated effective half - life approximately 12 hours .
Formoterol : The excretion of formoterol was studied in four healthy subjects following simultaneous administration of radiolabeled formoterol via the oral and IV routes .
In that study , 62 % of the radiolabeled formoterol was excreted in the urine while 24 % was eliminated in the feces .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients The pharmacokinetic profile of aclidinium bromide and its main metabolites was assessed in 12 elderly COPD patients ( aged 70 years or older ) compared to a younger cohort of 12 COPD patients ( 40 - 59 years ) that were administered 400 mcg aclidinium bromide once daily for 3 days via inhalation .
No clinically significant differences in systemic exposure ( AUC and Cmax ) were observed when the two groups were compared .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of formoterol have not specifically been studied in geriatric patients .
Patients with Renal Impairment The impact of renal disease upon the pharmacokinetics of aclidinium bromide was studied in 18 subjects with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment .
Systemic exposure ( AUC and Cmax ) to aclidinium and its main metabolites following single doses of 400 mcg aclidinium bromide was similar in renally impaired patients compared with 6 matched healthy control subjects .
No dose adjustment is necessary in renally impaired patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal excretion of unchanged formoterol is low .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of aclidinium bromide were not studied .
However , hepatic insufficiency is not expected to have relevant influence on aclidinium bromide pharmacokinetics , since it is predominantly metabolized by chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis to products that do not bind to muscarinic receptors [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Specific data with formoterol is not available , but because formoterol is primarily eliminated via hepatic metabolism , an increased exposure can be expected in patients with severe liver impairment .
Drug Interactions Studies Aclidinium : Formal drug interaction studies were not performed .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that aclidinium and its major metabolites do not inhibit CYP450 , 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , 3A4 / 5 , or 4A9 / 11 at concentrations up to 1 , 000 - fold higher than the maximum plasma concentration that would be expected to be achieved at the therapeutic dose .
Therefore , it is unlikely that aclidinium causes CYP450 related drug interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Formoterol : Specific drug - drug interaction studies with formoterol have not been performed .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals with the combination of aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate , to evaluate the potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility , have not been performed .
The data described below is from studies conducted on the individual components .
Aclidinium Bromide Two - year inhalation studies were conducted in mice and rats to assess the carcinogenic potential of aclidinium bromide .
No evidence of tumorigenicity was observed in rats and mice at aclidinium doses up to 0 . 20 and 2 . 4 mg / kg / day , respectively [ approximately 10 and 80 times the Maximum Recommended Human Daily Inhalation Dose ( MRHDID ) , respectively , based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites ] .
Aclidinium bromide was positive in the in vitro bacterial gene mutation assay and the in vitro thymidine locus mouse lymphoma assay .
However , aclidinium bromide was negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay and the in vivo / in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis assay with rat liver .
Aclidinium bromide impaired several fertility and reproductive performance indices ( increased number of days to mate , decreased conception rate , decreased number of corpora lutea , increased pre - implantation loss with consequent decreased number of implantations and live embryos ) in both male and female rats administered inhaled doses greater than or equal to 0 . 8 mg / kg / day [ approximately 15 times the MRHDID based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites ] .
These adverse fertility effects were observed in the presence of paternal toxicity as evidenced by mortality and decreased body weight gain .
However , there were no effects on mating index and sperm number and morphology .
In the separate fertility assessments ( treated males mated with untreated females ; treated females mated with untreated males ) , no effect was observed in male and female rats at inhaled doses of 1 . 9 and 0 . 8 mg / kg / day , respectively [ approximately 30 and 15 times the MRHDID , respectively , based on summed AUCs of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites ] .
Formoterol Fumarate Long - term studies were conducted in mice using oral administration and rats using inhalation administration to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of formoterol fumarate .
In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , formoterol fumarate at oral doses of 0 . 1 mg / kg and above [ approximately 20 times the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) on a mg / m2 basis ] caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of uterine leiomyomas .
In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , an increased incidence of mesovarian leiomyoma and uterine leiomyosarcoma were observed at the inhaled dose of 0 . 13 mg / kg ( approximately 55 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No tumors were seen at 0 . 022 mg / kg ( approximately 9 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Other beta - agonist drugs have similarly demonstrated increases in leiomyomas of the genital tract in female rodents .
The relevance of these findings to human use is unknown .
Formoterol fumarate was not mutagenic or clastogenic in Ames Salmonella / microsome plate test , mouse lymphoma test , chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , and rat micronucleus test .
A reduction in fertility and / or reproductive performance was identified in male rats treated with formoterol at an oral dose of 15 mg / kg ( approximately 6 , 000 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a separate study with male rats treated with an oral dose of 15 mg / kg ( approximately 6 , 000 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) , there were findings of testicular tubular atrophy and spermatic debris in the testes and oligospermia in the epididymides .
No such effect was seen at 3 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 200 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No effect on fertility was detected in female rats at doses up to 15 mg / kg ( approximately 6 , 000 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR was evaluated in a clinical development program that included three dose ranging trials , one active and two placebo - controlled lung function trials of 24 weeks duration ; and one 28 - week long - term safety extension study .
The efficacy of DUAKLIR was primarily based on one dose ranging trial in 128 subjects with COPD and the three 6 - month duration confirmatory trials in 5015 subjects with COPD , including chronic bronchitis and emphysema .
14 . 1 Dose - Ranging Trials Dose selection for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR for COPD was primarily based on data for the individual components , aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate , in COPD patients .
Aclidinium Dose selection for aclidinium was supported by a 7 - day , randomized , double - blind , active and placebo - controlled , crossover trial evaluating 3 doses of aclidinium bromide ( 400 , 200 , and 100 mcg ) administered twice daily and an active control in 79 subjects with COPD .
A dose ordering was observed , with the aclidinium bromide 400 mcg demonstrating larger improvements in FEV1 over 24 hours compared with aclidinium bromide 200 mcg and 100 mcg .
The change from baseline in FEV1 AUC0 - 12 from placebo after 7 days for the 100 , 200 , and 400 mcg doses were 154 mL ( 95 % CI : 116 , 192 ) , 176 mL ( 95 % CI : 137 , 215 ) , and 208 mL ( 95 % CI : 170 , 247 ) , respectively .
The results supported the selection of 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide twice daily in the confirmatory COPD trials .
Formoterol Dose selection for formoterol was supported by a randomized , double - blind , placebo and active comparator ( open - label ) controlled , 5 - period incomplete unbalanced crossover trial evaluating 3 doses of formoterol fumarate ( 24 , 12 , and 6 mcg ) administered twice daily and an open - label active comparator in 132 subjects with COPD .
The change from baseline in FEV1 AUC0 - 12 from placebo after 7 days for the 6 , 12 , and 24 mcg doses were 108 mL ( 95 % CI : 55 , 161 ) , 117 mL ( 95 % CI : 64 , 171 ) , and 162 mL ( 95 % CI : 107 , 216 ) , respectively .
The results supported the evaluation of 12 mcg of formoterol twice daily in the confirmatory COPD trials .
14 . 2 Confirmatory Trials The clinical development program for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR included two placebo - controlled [ Trial 1 ( NCT 01462942 ) and Trial 2 ( NCT 01437397 ) ] and one active - controlled [ Trial 3 ( NCT 02796677 ) ] randomized , double - blind , parallel - group 24 - week trials in subjects with moderate to very severe COPD , including chronic bronchitis and emphysema , designed to evaluate the efficacy of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR on lung function .
The 24 - week trials included 4 , 977 subjects > 40 years of age that had a clinical diagnosis of COPD , with a smoking history greater than or equal to 10 pack - years , a post - albuterol FEV1 less than 80 % of predicted normal values , and a ratio of FEV1 / FVC of less than 0 . 7 .
The majority of these patients were male ( 61 % ) and Caucasian ( 94 % ) with a mean age of 64 years and an average smoking history of 46 pack - years ( 50 % current smokers ) .
During screening , mean post - bronchodilator percent predicted FEV1 was 53 % ( range : 10 % to 86 % ) and mean percent reversibility was 15 % ( range : - 33 % to 121 % ) .
Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 evaluated DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ( aclidinium / formoterol fumarate ) 400 mcg / 12 mcg , aclidinium 400 mcg , and formoterol fumarate 12 mcg .
Trials 1 and 2 included a placebo arm , and Trial 3 included an active , blinded , control arm .
The co - primary endpoints were change from baseline in trough FEV1 and change from baseline in one - hour post - dose FEV1 at Week 24 compared with formoterol fumarate 12 mcg and aclidinium 400 mcg , respectively .
In the three trials , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR demonstrated a statistically significant increase in mean change from baseline in trough FEV1 and change from baseline in one - hour post - dose FEV1 at Week 24 relative to formoterol fumarate 12 mcg and aclidinium 400 mcg , respectively ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Least Squares ( LS ) Mean Change from Baseline in 1 - hour Morning Post dose FEV1 and Trough FEV1 at 24 weeks 1 - hour Post - dose FEV1 ( L ) Trough FEV1 ( L ) Difference from Difference from Treatment Placebo [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) Aclidinium Bromide null 400 mcg ( 95 % CI ) Placebo null ( 95 % CI ) Formoterol Fumarate null 12 mcg ( 95 % CI ) Trial 1 DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 400 mcg / 12 mcg n = 385 n = 194 0 . 299 L ( 0 . 255 , 0 . 343 ) n = 383 0 . 125 L ( 0 . 090 , 0 . 160 ) n = 194 0 . 143 L ( 0 . 101 , 0 . 185 ) n = 383 0 . 085 L ( 0 . 051 , 0 . 119 ) Trial 2 DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 400 mcg / 12 mcg n = 335 n = 331 0 . 284 L ( 0 . 247 , 0 . 320 ) n = 337 0 . 108 L ( 0 . 073 , 0 . 144 ) n = 331 0 . 130 L ( 0 . 095 , 0 . 165 ) n = 332 0 . 045 L ( 0 . 011 , 0 . 079 ) Trial 3 DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 400 mcg / 12 mcg n = 314 n = 475 0 . 084 L ( 0 . 051 , 0 . 117 ) n = 319 0 . 055 L ( 0 . 023 , 0 . 088 ) n = Number in the intent to treat population [ 1 ] The placebo , aclidinium and formoterol fumarate comparators used the same inhaler and excipients as DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
With the limited data available , there were consistent improvements in trough FEV1 and one - hour post - dose FEV1 with respect to age , sex , degree of airflow limitation , reversibility , GOLD stage , smoking status , or inhaled corticosteroid use .
In Trial 3 , serial spirometric evaluations were performed throughout the 24 - hour dosing interval in a subset of subjects ( n = 563 ) at Day 1 and Week 24 .
Results from Trial 3 are shown in Figures 1 and 2 .
Figure 1 : FEV1 profile for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ( AB / FF 400 / 12 mcg ) , aclidinium bromide 400 mcg , formoterol fumarate 12 mcg , over a 24 - hour dosing interval at Day 1 ( active control not shown ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : FEV1 profile for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ( AB / FF 400 / 12 mcg ) , aclidinium bromide 400 mcg , formoterol fumarate 12 mcg , over a 24 - hour dosing interval at Week 24 ( active control not shown ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] In Trials 1 and 2 , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR displayed an increase in FEV1 compared to placebo of 0 . 108 L ( 95 % CI ; 0 . 089 , 0 . 127 ) and 0 . 128 L ( 95 % CI ; 0 . 111 , 0 . 145 ) within 5 minutes after the first dose , respectively .
In Trials 1 and 2 , patients treated with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR used less rescue medication compared to patients treated with placebo .
The St . George ’ s Respiratory Questionnaire ( SGRQ ) was assessed in Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 .
In Trial 1 , the SGRQ responder rate ( defined as an improvement in score of 4 or more as threshold ) was 55 . 3 % , 53 . 5 % , 52 . 1 % , and 53 . 2 % for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , aclidinium , formoterol fumarate , and placebo , respectively , with odds ratios of 1 . 12 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 76 , 1 . 67 ) for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . aclidinium , 1 . 16 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 78 , 1 . 73 ) for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . formoterol fumarate , and 1 . 12 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 68 , 1 . 84 ) for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . placebo .
In Trial 2 , the SGRQ responder rate was 58 . 2 % , 54 . 5 % , 52 . 4 % , and 38 . 7 % for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , aclidinium , formoterol fumarate , and placebo , respectively , with odds ratios of 1 . 03 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 66 , 1 . 62 ) , 1 . 21 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 77 , 1 . 90 ) , and 2 . 26 ( 95 % CI : 1 . 41 , 3 . 61 ) , for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . aclidinium , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . formoterol fumarate , and DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . placebo , respectively .
In Trial 3 , the odds ratios were 0 . 96 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 61 , 1 . 51 ) and 0 . 97 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 59 , 1 . 58 ) , for DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . aclidinium , DUAKLIR PRESSAIR vs . formoterol fumarate , respectively .
Exacerbations A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of up to 36 months evaluated the efficacy of aclidinium bromide 400 mcg on COPD exacerbations in patients with moderate to very severe COPD with and without a history of exacerbations .
The trial enrolled 3630 COPD patients , aged between 40 and 91 years , 58 . 7 % were male and 90 . 6 % were Caucasian , with a mean post - bronchodilator FEV1 of 47 . 7 % of predicted value .
The majority of patients had moderate ( 45 . 1 % ) or severe ( 40 . 2 % ) airflow obstruction .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the rate of moderate to severe exacerbations during the first year of treatment , defined as worsening of COPD symptoms ( dyspnea , cough , sputum ) for at least 2 consecutive days that required treatment with antibiotics and / or systemic corticosteroids or resulted in hospitalization or lead to death .
Aclidinium bromide demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the rate of on - study moderate to severe COPD exacerbations by 17 % compared to placebo ( rate ratio [ RR ] 0 . 83 ; 95 % CI 0 . 73 to 0 . 94 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 400 mcg / 12 mcg ( aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate inhalation powder ) is supplied in a sealed bag with a desiccant sachet and is available in 60 metered doses ( NDC 0310 - 0900 - 60 ) and 30 metered doses ( NDC 0310 - 0900 - 30 ) .
The active ingredients are administered using a multi - dose dry powder inhaler , PRESSAIR ® , which delivers 60 doses or 30 doses of aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate powder for oral inhalation .
The PRESSAIR inhaler is a white and orange colored device and is comprised of an assembled plastic dosing mechanism with a dose indicator , a drug - product storage unit containing the drug - product formulation , and a mouthpiece covered by an orange protective cap .
Store DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in a dry place at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not store the inhaler on a vibrating surface .
The PRESSAIR inhaler should be stored inside the sealed bag and only be opened immediately before use .
Throw away the bag and the desiccant sachet .
Throw away ( dispose of ) the PRESSAIR inhaler after the marking “ 0 ” with a red background shows in the middle of the dose indicator , when the device is empty and locks out , or 2 months after the date you opened the sealed bag that the inhaler comes in , whichever comes first .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) • • Serious Asthma - Related Events Inform patients that LABAs , such as formoterol fumarate , one of the active ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , when used alone ( without an inhaled corticosteroid ) , increase the risk of serious asthma - related events , including asthma - related death .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not indicated for the treatment of asthma .
• • Not for Acute Symptoms DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not meant to relieve acute symptoms of COPD and extra doses should not be used for that purpose .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately if they experience a worsening of symptoms or a need for more inhalations of their rescue inhaler than usual .
Instruct patients not to stop therapy with DUAKLIR PRESSAIR without physician / provider guidance since symptoms may recur after discontinuation .
• • Do Not Use Additional Long - Acting Beta2 - Agonists Instruct patients to not use other medicines containing a LABA .
Patients should not use more than the recommended dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Instruct patients who have been taking inhaled , short - acting beta - agonists on a regular basis to discontinue the regular use of these products and use them only for the symptomatic relief of acute symptoms .
• • Paradoxical Bronchospasm Inform patients that DUAKLIR PRESSAIR can cause paradoxical bronchospasm .
Advise patients that if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , patients should discontinue DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
• • Visual Effects Eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos , or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema may be signs of acute narrow - angle glaucoma .
Inform patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs and symptoms develop .
Inform patients that care must be taken not to allow the powder to enter into the eyes as this may cause blurring of vision and pupil dilation .
• • Urinary Retention Difficulty passing urine and dysuria may be symptoms of new or worsening prostatic hyperplasia or bladder outlet obstruction .
Patients should be instructed to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
• • Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that anaphylaxis , angioedema ( including swelling of the lips , tongue , or throat ) , urticaria , rash , bronchospasm , or itching , may occur after administration of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Advise patient to immediately discontinue treatment and consult a physician should any of these signs or symptoms develop .
• • Risks Associated with Beta2 - Agonist Therapy Inform patients of adverse effects associated with beta2 - agonists , such as palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
• • Instructions for Administering DUAKLIR PRESSAIR It is important for patients to understand how to correctly use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Instruct patients not to use more than the recommended dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR or with other medicines containing LABAs as excessive use may lead to significant cardiovascular effects including fatalities .
Inform patients that if they miss a dose , they should take their next dose at the usual time ; they should not take 2 doses at one time .
Instruct patients to thoroughly read complete Instructions for Use before using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP , Wilmington , DE 19850 Under license of ALMIRALL , S . A . DUAKLIR ® is a registered trademark of ALMIRALL and PRESSAIR ® is a registered trademark of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
© AstraZeneca 2019 Patient Information DUAKLIR ™ PRESSAIR ® ( DU - aakl - ir PRESS - air ) ( aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate ) inhalation powder , for oral Inhalation use Important : Do not get DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in your eyes .
What is DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ?
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR combines an anticholinergic , aclidinium bromide , and a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA medicine ) formoterol fumarate .
• • Anticholinergic and LABA medicines help the muscles around the airways in your lungs stay relaxed to prevent symptoms such as wheezing , cough , chest tightness , and shortness of breath .
These symptoms can happen when the muscles around the airways tighten .
This makes it hard to breathe .
• • DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is a prescription medicine that is used to treat COPD .
COPD is a chronic lung disease that includes chronic bronchitis , emphysema , or both .
• • DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is used long term as 1 inhalation 2 times each day to improve symptoms of COPD for better breathing and to reduce the number of flare - ups ( the worsening of your COPD symptoms for several days ) .
• • DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not for use to treat sudden symptoms of COPD .
Always have a rescue inhaler ( short - acting beta2 agonist medicine ) with you to treat sudden symptoms of COPD .
If you do not have a rescue inhaler , contact your healthcare provider to have one prescribed for you .
• • DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is not for the treatment of asthma .
It is not known if DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is safe and effective in people with asthma .
• • DUAKLIR PRESSAIR should not be used in children .
It is not known if DUAKLIR PRESSAIR is safe and effective in children .
Do not use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR if you : • • have asthma and you use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR without also using a medicine called an inhaled corticosteroid .
• • have a severe allergy to milk proteins .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
• • are allergic to aclidinium bromide , formoterol fumarate , or any of the ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
See “ What are the ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ? ”
below for a complete list of ingredients .
Before you use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have heart problems • • have high blood pressure • • have seizures • • have thyroid problems • • have diabetes • • have eye problems especially glaucoma .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR may make your glaucoma worse .
• • have prostate or bladder problems , or problems passing urine .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR may make these problems worse .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if DUAKLIR PRESSAIR can harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if the medicines , aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR pass into your breast milk and if they can harm your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and certain other medicines may interact with each other .
This may cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • anticholinergics ( including umeclidinium , tiotropium , ipratropium , aclidinium , glycopyrrolate ) .
• • other LABA medicines ( including formoterol , arformoterol , salmeterol , vilanterol , indacaterol , olodaterol ) .
• • atropine Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ?
Read the step - by - step instructions for using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR at the end of this Patient Information .
• • Do not use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR unless your healthcare provider has taught you how to use the inhaler and you understand how to use it correctly .
• • Use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR exactly as prescribed .
Do not use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR more often than prescribed .
• • Use 1 inhalation 2 times each day .
Use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 1 time in the morning and 1 time in the evening .
• • If you miss a dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR skip the missed dose .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
Do not take more than 1 inhalation 2 times each day .
Do not take 2 doses at one time .
• • If you take too much DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , call your healthcare provider and get medical help right away if you have any unusual symptoms , such as worsening shortness of breath , chest pain , increased heart rate , or shakiness .
• • Do not use other medicines that contain a LABA for any reason .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if any of your other medicines are LABA medicines .
• • Do not stop using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR unless told to do so by your healthcare provider because your symptoms might get worse .
Your healthcare provider will change your medicines as needed .
• • DUAKLIR PRESSAIR does not relieve sudden symptoms .
Always have a rescue inhaler with you to treat sudden symptoms .
If you do not have a rescue inhaler , call your healthcare provider to have one prescribed for you .
• • Call your healthcare provider or get medical care right away if your breathing problems get worse , you need to use your rescue inhaler more often than usual , your rescue inhaler does not work as well to relieve your symptoms .
What are the possible side effects of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ?
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR can cause serious side effects including : • • people with asthma who take LABA medicines , such as formoterol fumarate ( one of the medicines in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ) , without also using a medicine called an inhaled corticosteroid , have an increased risk of serious problems from asthma , including being hospitalized , needing a tube placed in their airway to help them breathe or death .
• ∘ Call your healthcare provider if breathing problems worsen over time with using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
You may need a different treatment .
• ∘ Get emergency medical care if : • • your breathing problems worsen quickly • • you use your rescue inhaler , but it does not relieve your breathing problems • • COPD symptoms that get worse over time .
If your COPD symptoms worsen over time , do not increase your dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , call your healthcare provider .
• • using too much of a LABA medicine may cause : • ∘ chest pain • ∘ fast and irregular heartbeat • ∘ tremor • • ∘ increased blood pressure • ∘ headache • ∘ nervousness • • sudden breathing problems immediately after use of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
These sudden breathing problems may be life - threatening .
If you have sudden breathing problems immediately after inhaling DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , stop using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• • serious allergic reactions .
Call your doctor or get emergency medical care if you get any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction .
• ∘ rash • ∘ hives • ∘ swelling of the face , mouth and tongue • ∘ breathing problems • • effects on your heart : • ∘ chest pain • ∘ increased blood pressure • ∘ fast or irregular heartbeat • • changes in laboratory blood levels : high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) and low blood potassium ( hypokalemia ) , this last may cause symptoms of muscle spasms , muscle weakness , or abnormal heart rhythm .
• • new or worsened increased pressure in your eyes ( acute narrow - angle glaucoma ) .
Acute narrow - angle glaucoma can lead to permanent loss of vision if not treated .
Symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma may include : • ∘ eye pain or discomfort • ∘ seeing halos or bright colors around lights • ∘ nausea or vomiting • ∘ red eyes • ∘ blurred vision If you have these symptoms , stop using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and call your healthcare provider right away .
• • new or worsened urinary retention .
Urinary retention can be caused by blockage in your bladder or , if you are a male , a larger than normal prostate .
Symptoms of urinary retention may include : • ∘ difficulty urinating • ∘ painful urination • ∘ urinating frequently • ∘ urination in a weak stream or drips If you have these symptoms of urinary retention , stop using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and call your doctor right away .
The most common side effects of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR include : upper respiratory tract infection , headache and , back pain .
Tell your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ?
• • Store DUAKLIR PRESSAIR at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) in the sealed bag that it comes in until you are ready to use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Do not open the sealed bag until you are ready to use a dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
• • Keep DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in a dry place .
• • Do not store the inhaler on a vibrating surface .
• • Throw away ( dispose of ) DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ® and use a new one : • ∘ when the marking “ 0 ” with a red background shows in the middle of the dose indicator , • ∘ if your inhaler is empty and locks out , or • ∘ 2 months after the date you opened the sealed bag that the inhaler comes in , whichever comes first .
• Keep DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give your DUAKLIR PRESSAIR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about DUAKLIR PRESSAIR that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ?
Active ingredient : aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate Inactive ingredient : lactose monohydrate Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP , Wilmington , DE 19850 © AstraZeneca 2019 For more information go to www . DUAKLIR . com or call 1 - 800 - 236 - 9933 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration 03 / 2019 Instructions for Use DUAKLIR ® PRESSAIR ® ( DU - aakl - ir PRESS - air ) ( aclidinium bromide / formoterol fumarate ) inhalation powder For oral Inhalation only This Instructions for Use contains information on how to use your DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler .
It is important that you read this information as the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR may work differently from inhalers you have used before .
Read this Instructions for Use before you start using DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about how to use your inhaler , ask your doctor , pharmacist , or nurse for help .
The Instructions for Use is divided into the following sections : - Getting started - Before use - Step 1 : Prepare your dose - Step 2 : Inhale your medicine - Additional information - Questions and Answers about your DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler Getting Started Become familiar with the parts of your DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler ( Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Before use : • a ) Right before first use , open the sealed bag at the arrow marking and remove the inhaler .
Throw away the bag and the desiccant .
• b ) Write the date that you open the sealed bag on the label of the inhaler .
• c ) Do not press the orange button until you are ready to take a dose .
• d ) Remove the protective cap by lightly squeezing the arrows marked on each side of the protective cap and pulling straight off ( Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Prepare your dose 1 . 1 .
Look in the opening of the mouthpiece and make sure nothing is blocking it ( Figure C ) .
1 . 2 .
Look at the control window .
The control window should be red ( Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 3 .
Hold the inhaler horizontally with the mouthpiece facing you and the orange button on top ( Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 4 .
Press the orange button all the way down to load your dose ( Figure E ) .
When you press the orange button all the way down , the control window changes from red to green .
Make sure the orange button is on top .
Do not tilt the inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 5 .
Release the orange button ( Figure F ) .
Make sure you release the orange button , so the inhaler can work correctly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Stop and Check : 1 . 6 .
Make sure the control window is now green ( Figure G ) .
This means your medicine is ready to be inhaled .
Go to “ Step 2 : Inhale your medicine ” .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What to do if the control window is still red after pressing the button ( Figure H ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The dose is not prepared .
Go back to “ Step 1 Prepare your dose ” and repeat steps 1 . 1 to 1 . 6 .
Step 2 : Inhale your medicine Read steps 2 . 1 to 2 . 7 fully before use .
Do not tilt the inhaler .
2 . 1 .
Hold the inhaler away from your mouth , and breathe out completely .
Never breathe out into the inhaler ( Figure I ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 .
Hold your head upright , put the mouthpiece between your lips , and close your lips tightly around the mouth piece ( Figure J ) .
Do not hold the orange button down while inhaling [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 .
Take a strong , deep breath through your mouth .
Keep breathing in for as long as possible .
A “ click ” will let you know that you are inhaling correctly .
Keep breathing in as long as possible after you hear the “ click ” .
Some people may not hear the “ click ” .
Use the control window to make sure you have inhaled correctly .
2 . 4 .
Take the inhaler out of your mouth .
2 . 5 .
Hold your breath for as long as possible .
2 . 6 .
Slowly breathe out away from the inhaler .
Some people may have a grainy sensation in their mouth , or a slightly sweet or bitter taste .
Do not take an extra dose if you do not taste or feel anything after inhaling .
Stop and Check : 2 . 7 .
Make sure the control window is now red ( Figure K ) .
This means you have inhaled your medicine correctly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What to do if the control window is still green after inhalation ( Figure L ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This means you have not inhaled your medicine correctly .
Go back to “ Step 2 Inhale your medicine ” and repeat steps 2 . 1 to 2 . 7 .
If the control window still does not change to red , you may have forgotten to release the orange button before inhaling , or you may not have inhaled strongly enough .
If this happens , try again .
Make sure you have released the orange button , and you have breathed out completely .
Then take a strong , deep breath through the mouthpiece .
Contact your doctor if the control window is still green after repeated attempts .
Push the protective cap back onto the mouthpiece after each use ( Figure M ) , to prevent contamination of the inhaler with dust or other materials .
You should throw away ( dispose of ) your inhaler if you lose the protective cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For more information about DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and a video demonstration on how to use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR , go to www . DUAKLIR . com .
Additional information What should I do if I accidentally prepare a dose ?
Store your inhaler with the protective cap in place until it is time to inhale your medicine , then remove the cap and start at Step 1 . 6 .
How does the dose indicator work ?
• • The dose indicator shows the total number of doses left in the inhaler ( Figure N ) .
• • On first use , every inhaler contains at least 60 doses .
• • Each time you load a dose by pressing the orange button , the dose indicator moves by a small amount towards the next number ( 50 , 40 , 30 , 20 , 10 , or 0 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] When should I get a new inhaler ?
You should throw away ( dispose of ) your inhaler if it appears to be damaged or if you lose the protective cap .
When a red band appears in the dose indicator , this means you are close to your last dose ( Figure N ) .
You should throw away ( dispose of ) the inhaler and use a new one : • • when the marking “ 0 ” with a red background shows in the middle of the dose indicator ( Figure O ) , or • • if your inhaler is empty and locks out ( Figure P ) , or • • two months after the date you opened the sealed bag that the inhaler comes in , whichever comes first .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How do I know that my inhaler is empty ?
When the orange button will not return to its full upper position and is locked in a middle position ( Figure P ) .
Even though the orange button is locked , your last dose may still be inhaled .
After that , the inhaler cannot be used again and you should start using a new inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I clean the inhaler ?
Never use water to clean the inhaler , as this may damage your medicine .
If you want to clean your inhaler , wipe the outside of the mouthpiece with a dry tissue or paper towel .
How should I store DUAKLIR PRESSAIR ?
• • Store DUAKLIR PRESSAIR at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) in the sealed bag that it comes in until you are ready to use DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
Do not open the sealed bag until you are ready to use a dose of DUAKLIR PRESSAIR .
• • Keep DUAKLIR PRESSAIR in a dry place .
• • Do not store the inhaler on a vibrating surface .
Keep DUAKLIR PRESSAIR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Questions and Answers about your DUAKLIR PRESSAIR Inhaler Question Answer Do I need to take extra steps to prepare the inhaler before first use ?
DUAKLIR PRESSAIR comes preloaded with medicine and is ready to use .
Remove the inhaler from the sealed bag and follow the step - by - step Instructions for Use .
How do I know if the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler is ready to use before taking each dose ?
The DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler is ready to use when the control window on the front of the inhaler is green ( Figure G ) • • If the control window is red ( see Step 1 . 6 ) , press and release the orange button completely .
This will change the color of the control window from red to green , indicating the medicine is ready to inhale .
What if the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler window does n't change from red to green ?
The dose is not prepared .
Go back to “ Step 1 Prepare your dose ” and repeat steps 1 . 1 to 1 . 6 .
• • If the orange button is locked , you have used all the medicine in your inhaler and should get a new DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler ( Figure P ) .
How do I know that I used DUAKLIR PRESSAIR correctly ?
The DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler has a helpful feature to let you know that you have inhaled your medicine correctly .
• • Look at the control window to see if it has turned to red after you have inhaled fully through the mouthpiece .
If the control window is red you have inhaled your full dose of medicine correctly ( see Step 2 . 7 ) .
What if the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler control window does not change color from green back to red after I inhale ?
This means you may not have inhaled the medicine strongly enough .
Go back to “ Step 2 Inhale your medicine ” and repeat steps 2 . 1 to 2 . 7 .
• • Did you breathe out completely before inhaling ?
• • Did you let go of the orange button before inhaling ?
• • Did you form a tight seal with your lips around the mouthpiece ?
• • Did you breathe in strongly and deeply ?
• • Did you keep breathing in after you heard the “ click ” ?
What if I do not see the dose indicator move after I inhaled ?
Each time you load a dose by pressing the orange button , the dose indicator moves by a small amount towards the next number from 60 to 0 : 60 , 50 , 40 , 30 , 20 , 10 , 0 ( see Figure N ) .
As long as you see the control window change from green to red , you have successfully inhaled the full dose .
Can the DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler release too much medicine or lose doses of medicine from the inhaler ?
No .
The DUAKLIR PRESSAIR inhaler only releases 1 dose of medicine with each inhalation .
Pressing and releasing the orange button more than one time before inhaling does not increase the dose you will receive or cause any medicine to be lost .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP , Wilmington , DE 19850 Under license of ALMIRALL , S . A . DUAKLIR ® is a registered trademark of ALMIRALL , S . A . and PRESSAIR ® is a registered trademark of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0310 - 0900 - 60 Rx Only Duaklir ® Pressair ® ( aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate ) inhalation powder 400 mcg / 12 mcg per actuation For Oral Inhalation Only * Each metered dose contains 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide ( equivalent to 343 mcg of aclidinium ) , and 12 . 0 mcg of formoterol fumarate ( as a dihydrate , equivalent to 9 . 8 mcg of formoterol ) from the device reservoir .
60 Metered Doses Manufactured for : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP .
Wilmington , DE 19850 Manufactured by : AstraZeneca AB , SE - 151 85 Södertälje , Sweden [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
