ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Niacinamide 2 . 0 % , Adenosine 0 . 04 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : < Ampoule > Water , Dipropylene Glycol , Glycerin , Trehalose , Sodium Hyaluronate , Lysine , Histidine , Arginine , Aspartic Acid , Threonine , Serine , Glutamic Acid , Proline , Glycine , Alanine , Valine , Methionine , Isoleucine , Leucine , Tyrosine , Phenylalanine , Cysteine , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Anthemis Nobilis Flower Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Glycyrrhiza Uralensis ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , rh - Oligopeptide - 1 , Hydrolyzed Collagen Extract , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Citric Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Tocopheryl Acetate , Carbomer , Phenoxyethanol , Perfume < Tablet > Sodium Bicarbonate , Adipic Acid , Sodium Carbonate , PEG - 90 M , PEG - 150 , Ascorbic Acid , Riboflavin , Biotin , Panthenol PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Brightening & Anti wrinkle WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only .
Please avoid contact with eyes .
Please don ’ t use on irritated skin or areas with open wound .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rashes appear .
Don ’ t keep it in the place with high or low temperature and keep away from direct sunlight .
Please keep out of reach of children Please replace the cap after use .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Uses Uses : The sparkling tablets containing natural fruit ingredients , vitamin C , B2 and B7 and the double functional cosmetic ample containing adenosine and niacinamide for wrinkle and whitening .
The natural refreshing fruit ingredients and vitamin , aloe vera leaf , portulaca , rosemary and morus bark offer gentle and relaxing texture and let your skin breathe .
When you put the tablet into the ample , it creates vitamin and sparkling bubbles .
The bubbles enhance the functions of the ample containing hyaluronic acid , peptide and other herb extracts and help your skin get better moist and elastic .
Directions Directions : Put the tablet into the ample , close the cap then gently shake before use when the tablet is completely dissolved .
( It takes 20 ~ 30 min until the tablet is completely dissolved . )
It is even more effective if you use after washing your face every morning .
( The tablet makes carbonic bubbles while dissolving and it synergizes the effects of the ample . )
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
