Rx Only DESCRIPTION Labetalol hydrochloride is an adrenergic receptor blocking agent that has both selective alpha1 - and nonselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking actions in a single substance .
Labetalol hydrochloride is a racemate , chemically designated as 5 - [ 1 - hydroxy - 2 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 3 - phenylpropyl ) amino ] ethyl ] salicylamide monohydrochloride , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labetalol hydrochloride has the molecular formula C19H24N2O3 • HCl and a molecular weight of 364 . 9 .
It has two asymmetric centers and therefore exists as a molecular complex of two diastereoisomeric pairs .
Dilevalol , the R , R ' stereoisomer , makes up 25 % of racemic labetalol .
Labetalol hydrochloride is a white or off - white crystalline powder , soluble in water .
Labetalol hydrochloride injection USP is a clear , colorless to light yellow , aqueous , sterile , isotonic solution for intravenous injection .
It has a pH range of 3 . 0 to 4 . 5 .
Each mL contains 5 mg labetalol hydrochloride USP , 45 mg anhydrous dextrose USP , 0 . 1 mg edetate disodium USP ; 0 . 8 mg methylparaben NF and 0 . 1 mg propylparaben NF as preservatives ; citric acid anhydrous USP and / or sodium hydroxide NF as necessary , to bring the solution into the pH range .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Labetalol combines both selective , competitive alpha1 - adrenergic blocking and nonselective , competitive beta - adrenergic blocking activity in a single substance .
In man , the ratios of alpha - to beta - blockade have been estimated to be approximately 1 : 3 and 1 : 7 following oral and intravenous administration , respectively .
Beta2 - agonist activity has been demonstrated in animals with minimal beta1 - agonist ( ISA ) activity detected .
In animals , at doses greater than those required for alpha - or beta - adrenergic blockade , a membrane - stabilizing effect has been demonstrated .
Pharmacodynamics : The capacity of labetalol to block alpha - receptors in man has been demonstrated by attenuation of the pressor effect of phenylephrine and by a significant reduction of the pressor response caused by immersing the hand in ice - cold water ( " cold - pressor test " ) .
Labetalol ’ s beta1 - receptor blockade in man was demonstrated by a small decrease in the resting heart rate , attenuation of tachycardia produced by isoproterenol or exercise , and by attenuation of the reflex tachycardia to the hypotension produced by amyl nitrite .
Beta2 - receptor blockade was demonstrated by inhibition of the isoproterenol - induced fall in diastolic blood pressure .
Both the alpha - and beta - blocking actions of orally administered labetalol contribute to a decrease in blood pressure in hypertensive patients .
Labetalol consistently , in dose - related fashion , blunted increases in exercise - induced blood pressure and heart rate , and in their double product .
The pulmonary circulation during exercise was not affected by labetalol dosing .
Single oral doses of labetalol administered in patients with coronary artery disease had no significant effect on sinus rate , intraventricular conduction , or QRS duration .
The AV conduction time was modestly prolonged in 2 of 7 patients .
In another study , intravenous labetalol slightly prolonged AV nodal conduction time and atrial effective refractory period with only small changes in heart rate .
The effects on AV nodal refractoriness were inconsistent .
Labetalol produces dose - related falls in blood pressure without reflex tachycardia and without significant reduction in heart rate , presumably through a mixture of its alpha - blocking and beta - blocking effects .
Hemodynamic effects are variable with small nonsignificant changes in cardiac output seen in some studies but not others , and small decreases in total peripheral resistance .
Elevated plasma renins are reduced .
Doses of labetalol that controlled hypertension did not affect renal function in mild to severe hypertensive patients with normal renal function .
Due to the alpha1 - receptor blocking activity of labetalol , blood pressure is lowered more in the standing than in the supine position , and symptoms of postural hypotension can occur .
During dosing with intravenous labetalol , the contribution of the postural component should be considered when positioning patients for treatment , and patients should not be allowed to move to an erect position unmonitored until their ability to do so is established .
In a clinical pharmacologic study in severe hypertensives , an initial 0 . 25 mg / kg injection of labetalol hydrochloride , administered to patients in the supine position , decreased blood pressure by an average of 11 / 7 mmHg .
Additional injections of 0 . 5 mg / kg at 15 - minute intervals up to a total cumulative dose of 1 . 75 mg / kg of labetalol hydrochloride caused further dose - related decreases in blood pressure .
Some patients required cumulative doses of up to 3 . 25 mg / kg .
The maximal effect of each dose level occurred within 5 minutes .
Following discontinuation of intravenous treatment with labetalol , the blood pressure rose gradually and progressively , approaching pretreatment baseline values within an average of 16 to 18 hours in the majority of patients .
Similar results were obtained in the treatment of patients with severe hypertension requiring urgent blood pressure reduction with an initial dose of 20 mg ( which corresponds to 0 . 25 mg / kg for an 80 kg patient ) followed by additional doses of either 40 or 80 mg at 10 - minute intervals to achieve the desired effect or up to a cumulative dose of 300 mg .
Labetalol hydrochloride administered as a continuous intravenous infusion , with a mean dose of 136 mg ( 27 to 300 mg ) over a period of 2 to 3 hours ( mean of 2 hours and 39 minutes ) lowered the blood pressure by an average of 60 / 35 mmHg .
Exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease .
Abrupt withdrawal of these agents in patients without coronary artery disease has resulted in transient symptoms , including tremulousness , sweating , palpitation , headache , and malaise .
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain these phenomena , among them increased sensitivity to catecholamines because of increased numbers of beta - receptors .
Although beta - adrenergic receptor blockade is useful in the treatment of angina and hypertension , there are also situations in which sympathetic stimulation is vital .
For example , in patients with severely damaged hearts , adequate ventricular function may depend on sympathetic drive .
Beta - adrenergic blockade may worsen AV block by preventing the necessary facilitating effects of sympathetic activity on conduction .
Beta2 - adrenergic blockade results in passive bronchial constriction by interfering with endogenous adrenergic bronchodilator activity in patients subject to bronchospasm and may also interfere with exogenous bronchodilators in such patients .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Following intravenous infusion , the elimination half - life is about 5 . 5 hours and the total body clearance is approximately 33 mL / min / kg .
The plasma half - life of labetalol following oral administration is about 6 to 8 hours .
In patients with decreased hepatic or renal function , the elimination half - life of labetalol is not altered ; however , the relative bioavailability in hepatically impaired patients is increased due to decreased " first - pass " metabolism .
The metabolism of labetalol is mainly through conjugation to glucuronide metabolites .
These metabolites are present in plasma and are excreted in the urine and , via the bile , into the feces .
Approximately 55 % to 60 % of a dose appears in the urine as conjugates or unchanged labetalol within the first 24 hours of dosing .
Labetalol has been shown to cross the placental barrier in humans .
Only negligible amounts of the drug crossed the blood - brain barrier in animal studies .
Labetalol is approximately 50 % protein bound .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol from the general circulation ( < 1 % ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol hydrochloride injection is indicated for control of blood pressure in severe hypertension .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in bronchial asthma , overt cardiac failure , greater than first degree heart block , cardiogenic shock , severe bradycardia , other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension , and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product ( see WARNINGS ) .
Beta - blockers , even those with apparent cardioselectivity , should not be used in patients with a history of obstructive airway disease , including asthma .
WARNINGS Hepatic Injury : Severe hepatocellular injury , confirmed by rechallenge in at least one case , occurs rarely with labetalol therapy .
The hepatic injury is usually reversible , but hepatic necrosis and death have been reported .
Injury has occurred after both short - and long - term treatment and may be slowly progressive despite minimal symptomatology .
Similar hepatic events have been reported with a related compound , dilevalol hydrochloride , including two deaths .
Dilevalol HCl is one of the four isomers of labetalol hydrochloride .
Thus , for patients taking labetalol , periodic determination of suitable hepatic laboratory tests would be appropriate .
Laboratory testing should also be done at the very first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , pruritus , dark urine , persistent anorexia , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , or unexplained " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If the patient has jaundice or laboratory evidence of liver injury , labetalol should be stopped and not restarted .
Cardiac Failure : Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure .
Beta - blockade carries a potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
Although beta - blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure , if necessary , labetalol can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are well compensated .
Congestive heart failure has been observed in patients receiving labetalol .
Labetalol does not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure : In patients with latent cardiac insufficiency , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can lead , in some cases , to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be fully digitalized and / or be given a diuretic , and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues , despite adequate digitalization and diuretic , labetalol therapy should be withdrawn ( gradually if possible ) .
Ischemic Heart Disease : Angina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol discontinuation .
However , following abrupt cessation of therapy with some beta - blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease , exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have been reported .
Therefore , such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris , when discontinuation of labetalol is planned , the patient should be carefully observed and should be advised to limit physical activity .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , labetalol administration should be reinstituted promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Nonallergic Bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) : Since labetalol injection at the usual intravenous therapeutic doses has not been studied in patients with nonallergic bronchospastic disease , it should not be used in such patients .
Pheochromocytoma : Intravenous labetalol has been shown to be effective in lowering the blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma ; higher than usual doses may be required .
However , paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor ; therefore , use caution when administering labetalol to patients with pheochromocytoma .
Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia : Beta - adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of acute hypoglycemia .
This is especially important with labile diabetics .
Beta - blockade also reduces the release of insulin in response to hyperglycemia ; it may therefore be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic drugs .
Major Surgery : The necessity or desirability of withdrawing beta - blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial .
Protracted severe hypotension and difficulty in restarting or maintaining a heartbeat have been reported with beta - blockers .
The effect of labetalol ’ s alpha - adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting .
Several deaths have occurred when labetalol injection was used during surgery ( including when used in cases to control bleeding ) .
A synergism between labetalol and halothane anesthesia has been shown ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Rapid Decreases of Blood Pressure : Caution must be observed when reducing severely elevated blood pressure .
Although such findings have not been reported with intravenous labetalol , a number of adverse reactions , including cerebral infarction , optic nerve infarction , angina , and ischemic changes in the electrocardiogram , have been reported with other agents when severely elevated blood pressure was reduced over time courses of several hours to as long as 1 or 2 days .
The desired blood pressure lowering should therefore be achieved over as long a period of time as is compatible with the patient ' s status .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired Hepatic Function : may diminish metabolism of labetalol .
Following Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery : In one uncontrolled study , patients with low cardiac indices and elevated systemic vascular resistance following intravenous labetalol experienced significant declines in cardiac output with little change in systemic vascular resistance .
One of these patients developed hypotension following labetalol treatment .
Therefore , use of labetalol should be avoided in such patients .
High - Dose Labetalol : Administration of up to 3 g / d as an infusion for up to 2 to 3 days has been anecdotally reported ; several patients experienced hypotension or bradycardia ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hypotension : Symptomatic postural hypotension ( incidence 58 % ) is likely to occur if patients are tilted or allowed to assume the upright position within 3 hours of receiving labetalol injection .
Therefore , the patient ' s ability to tolerate an upright position should be established before permitting any ambulation .
Jaundice or Hepatic Dysfunction : ( see WARNINGS ) .
Information for Patients The following information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
During and immediately following ( for up to 3 hours ) labetalol injection , the patient should remain supine .
Subsequently , the patient should be advised on how to proceed gradually to become ambulatory , and should be observed at the time of first ambulation .
When the patient is started on labetalol hydrochloride tablets , following adequate control of blood pressure with labetalol injection , appropriate directions for titration of dosage should be provided ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
As with all drugs with beta - blocking activity , certain advice to patients being treated with labetalol is warranted : While no incident of the abrupt withdrawal phenomenon ( exacerbation of angina pectoris ) has been reported with labetalol , dosing with labetalol tablets should not be interrupted or discontinued without a physician ’ s advice .
Patients being treated with labetalol tablets should consult a physician at any signs or symptoms of impending cardiac failure or hepatic dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Also , transient scalp tingling may occur , usually when treatment with labetalol tablets is initiated ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Laboratory Tests Routine laboratory tests are ordinarily not required before or after intravenous labetalol .
In patients with concomitant illnesses , such as impaired renal function , appropriate tests should be done to monitor these conditions .
Drug Interactions Since labetalol injection may be administered to patients already being treated with other medications , including other antihypertensive agents , careful monitoring of these patients is necessary to detect and treat promptly any undesired effect from concomitant administration .
In one survey , 2 . 3 % of patients taking labetalol orally in combination with tricyclic antidepressants experienced tremor as compared to 0 . 7 % reported to occur with labetalol alone .
The contribution of each of the treatments to this adverse reaction is unknown but the possibility of a drug interaction cannot be excluded .
Drugs possessing beta - blocking properties can blunt the bronchodilator effect of beta - receptor agonist drugs in patients with bronchospasm ; therefore , doses greater than the normal antiasthmatic dose of beta - agonist bronchodilator drugs may be required .
Cimetidine has been shown to increase the bioavailability of labetalol administered orally .
Since this could be explained either by enhanced absorption or by an alteration of hepatic metabolism of labetalol , special care should be used in establishing the dose required for blood pressure control in such patients .
Synergism has been shown between halothane anesthesia and intravenously administered labetalol .
During controlled hypotensive anesthesia using labetalol in association with halothane , high concentrations ( 3 % or above ) of halothane should not be used because the degree of hypotension will be increased and because of the possibility of a large reduction in cardiac output and an increase in central venous pressure .
The anesthesiologist should be informed when a patient is receiving labetalol .
Labetalol blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effect .
If labetalol hydrochloride is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris , additional antihypertensive effects may occur .
Care should be taken if labetalol is used concomitantly with calcium antagonists of the verapamil type .
When drug products that are alkaline , such as furosemide , have been administered in combination with labetalol , a white precipitate has been noted .
Therefore , these drugs should not be administered in the same infusion line .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction : While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions The presence of labetalol metabolites in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary catecholamines , metanephrine , normetanephrine , and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) when measured by fluorimetric or photometric methods .
In screening patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma and being treated with labetalol , a specific method , such as a high - performance liquid chromatographic assay with solid phase extraction ( e . g . , J Chromatogr .
385 : 241 , 1987 ) should be employed in determining levels of catecholamines .
Labetalol has also been reported to produce a false - positive test for amphetamine when screening urine for the presence of drugs using the commercially available assay methods Toxi - Lab A ® ( thin - layer chromatographic assay ) and Emit - d . a . u . ® ( radioenzymatic assay ) .
When patients being treated with labetalol have a positive urine test for amphetamine using these techniques , confirmation should be made by using more specific methods , such as a gas chromatographic - mass spectrometer technique .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term oral dosing studies with labetalol for 18 months in mice and for 2 years in rats showed no evidence of carcinogenesis .
Studies with labetalol , using dominant lethal assays in rats and mice , and exposing microorganisms according to modified Ames tests , showed no evidence of mutagenesis .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Teratogenic studies have been performed with labetalol in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to approximately 6 and 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
No reproducible evidence of fetal malformations was observed .
Increased fetal resorptions were seen in both species at doses approximating the MRHD .
A teratology study performed with labetalol in rabbits at intravenous doses up to 1 . 7 times the MRHD revealed no evidence of drug - related harm to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Labetalol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression have been reported in infants of mothers who were treated with labetalol for hypertension during pregnancy .
Oral administration of labetalol to rats during late gestation through weaning at doses of 2 to 4 times the MRHD caused a decrease in neonatal survival .
Labor and Delivery Labetalol given to pregnant women with hypertension did not appear to affect the usual course of labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Small amounts of labetalol ( approximately 0 . 004 % of the maternal dose ) are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when labetalol injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Labetalol injection is usually well tolerated .
Most adverse effects have been mild and transient and in controlled trials involving 92 patients did not require labetalol withdrawal .
Symptomatic postural hypotension ( incidence 58 % ) is likely to occur if patients are tilted or allowed to assume the upright position within 3 hours of receiving labetalol injection .
Moderate hypotension occurred in 1 of 100 patients while supine .
Increased sweating was noted in 4 of 100 patients , and flushing occurred in 1 of 100 patients .
The following also were reported with labetalol injection with the incidence per 100 patients as noted : Cardiovascular System : Ventricular arrhythmia in 1 .
Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems : Dizziness in 9 ; tingling of the scalp / skin 7 ; hypoesthesia ( numbness ) and vertigo , 1 each .
Gastrointestinal System : Nausea in 13 ; vomiting 4 ; dyspepsia and taste distortion , 1 each .
Metabolic Disorders : Transient increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels occurred in 8 of 100 patients ; these were associated with drops in blood pressure , generally in patients with prior renal insufficiency .
Psychiatric Disorders : Somnolence / yawning in 3 .
Respiratory System : Wheezing in 1 .
Skin : Pruritus in 1 .
The incidence of adverse reactions depends upon the dose of labetalol .
The largest experience is with oral labetalol .
Certain of the side effects increased with increasing oral dose as shown in the table below which depicts the entire U . S . therapeutic trials data base for adverse reactions that are clearly or possibly dose related .
Labetalol HCI Daily Dose ( mg ) 200 300 400 600 800 900 1200 1600 2400 Number of Patients 522 181 606 608 503 117 411 242 175 Dizziness ( % ) 2 3 3 3 5 1 9 13 16 Fatigue 2 1 4 4 5 3 7 6 10 Nausea < 1 0 1 2 4 0 7 11 19 Vomiting 0 0 < 1 < 1 < 1 0 1 2 3 Dyspepsia 1 0 2 1 1 0 2 2 4 Paresthesias 2 0 2 2 1 1 2 5 5 Nasal Stuffiness 1 1 2 2 2 2 4 5 6 Ejaculation Failure 0 2 1 2 3 0 4 3 5 Impotence 1 1 1 1 2 4 3 4 3 Edema 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 2 2 In addition , a number of other less common adverse events have been reported : Cardiovascular : Hypotension , and rarely , syncope , bradycardia , heart block .
Liver and Biliary System : Hepatic necrosis , hepatitis , cholestatic jaundice , elevated liver function tests .
Hypersensitivity : Rare reports of hypersensitivity ( e . g . , rash , urticaria , pruritus , angioedema , dyspnea ) and anaphylactoid reactions .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with labetalol during investigational use and extensive foreign marketing experience .
Clinical Laboratory Tests Among patients dosed with labetalol tablets , there have been reversible increases of serum transaminases in 4 % of patients tested , and more rarely , reversible increases in blood urea .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Baxter Healthcare Corporation at 1 - 877 - 725 - 2747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with labetalol injection causes excessive hypotension that is posture sensitive , and sometimes , excessive bradycardia .
Patients should be placed supine and their legs raised if necessary to improve the blood supply to the brain .
If overdosage with labetalol follows oral ingestion , gastric lavage or pharmacologically induced emesis ( using syrup of ipecac ) may be useful for removal of the drug shortly after ingestion .
The following additional measures should be employed if necessary : Excessive bradycardia - administer atropine or epinephrine .
Cardiac failure - administer a digitalis glycoside and a diuretic .
Dopamine or dobutamine may also be useful .
Hypotension - administer vasopressors , e . g . , norepinephrine .
There is pharmacological evidence that norepinephrine may be the drug of choice .
Bronchospasm - administer epinephrine and / or an aerosolized beta2 - agonist .
Seizures - administer diazepam .
In severe beta - blocker overdose resulting in hypotension and / or bradycardia , glucagon has been shown to be effective when administered in large doses ( 5 to 10 mg rapidly over 30 seconds , followed by continuous infusion of 5 mg / hr that can be reduced as the patient improves ) .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol from the general circulation ( < 1 % ) .
The oral LD50 value of labetalol hydrochloride in the mouse is approximately 600 mg / kg and in the rat is greater than 2 g / kg .
The intravenous LD50 in these species is 50 to 60 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Labetalol hydrochloride injection is intended for intravenous use in hospitalized patients .
DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED depending upon the severity of hypertension and the response of the patient during dosing .
Patients should always be kept in a supine position during the period of intravenous drug administration .
A substantial fall in blood pressure on standing should be expected in these patients .
The patient ' s ability to tolerate an upright position should be established before permitting any ambulation , such as using toilet facilities .
Either of two methods of administration of labetalol hydrochloride injection may be used : a ) repeated intravenous injections , b ) slow continuous infusion .
Repeated Intravenous Injection : Initially , labetalol hydrochloride injection should be given in a dose of 20 mg labetalol hydrochloride ( which corresponds to 0 . 25 mg / kg for an 80 kg patient ) by slow intravenous injection over a 2 - minute period .
Immediately before the injection and at 5 and 10 minutes after injection , supine blood pressure should be measured to evaluate response .
Additional injections of 40 mg or 80 mg can be given at 10 - minute intervals until a desired supine blood pressure is achieved or a total of 300 mg labetalol hydrochloride has been injected .
The maximum effect usually occurs within 5 minutes of each injection .
Slow Continuous Infusion : Labetalol hydrochloride injection is prepared for intravenous continuous infusion by diluting the contents with commonly used intravenous fluids ( see below ) .
Examples of methods of preparing the infusion solution are : The contents of either two 20 - mL vials ( 40 mL ) , or one 40 - mL vial , are added to 160 mL of a commonly used intravenous fluid such that the resultant 200 mL of solution contains 200 mg of labetalol hydrochloride , 1 mg / mL .
The diluted solution should be administered at a rate of 2 mL / min to deliver 2 mg / min .
Alternatively , the contents of either two 20 - mL vials ( 40 mL ) , or one 40 - mL vial , of labetalol hydrochloride injection are added to 250 mL of a commonly used intravenous fluid .
The resultant solution will contain 200 mg of labetalol hydrochloride , approximately 2 mg / 3 mL .
The diluted solution should be administered at a rate of 3 mL / min to deliver approximately 2 mg / min .
The rate of infusion of the diluted solution may be adjusted according to the blood pressure response , at the discretion of the physician .
To facilitate a desired rate of infusion , the diluted solution can be infused using a controlled administration mechanism , e . g . , graduated burette or mechanically driven infusion pump .
Since the half - life of labetalol is 5 to 8 hours , steady - state blood levels ( in the face of a constant rate of infusion ) would not be reached during the usual infusion time period .
The infusion should be continued until a satisfactory response is obtained and should then be stopped and oral labetalol hydrochloride started ( see below ) .
The effective intravenous dose is usually in the range of 50 to 200 mg .
A total dose of up to 300 mg may be required in some patients .
Blood Pressure Monitoring : The blood pressure should be monitored during and after completion of the infusion or intravenous injections .
Rapid or excessive falls in either systolic or diastolic blood pressure during intravenous treatment should be avoided .
In patients with excessive systolic hypertension , the decrease in systolic pressure should be used as indicator of effectiveness in addition to the response of the diastolic pressure .
Initiation of Dosing with Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets : Subsequent oral dosing with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should begin when it has been established that the supine diastolic blood pressure has begun to rise .
The recommended initial dose is 200 mg , followed in 6 to 12 hours by an additional dose of 200 or 400 mg , depending on the blood pressure response .
Thereafter , inpatient titration with labetalol hydrochloride tablets may proceed as follows : Inpatient Titration InstructionsRegimen Daily Dose [ 1 ] 200 mg b . i . d . 400 mg 400 mg b . i . d . 800 mg 800 mg b . i . d . 1600 mg 1200 mg b . i . d . 2400 mg [ 1 ] If needed , the total daily dose may be given in three divided doses .
While in the hospital , the dosage of labetalol hydrochloride tablets may be increased at 1 - day intervals to achieve the desired blood pressure reduction .
For subsequent outpatient titration or maintenance dosing see labetalol hydrochloride tablets Product Information DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for additional recommendations .
Compatibility with Commonly Used Intravenous Fluids : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Labetalol hydrochloride injection was tested for compatibility with commonly used intravenous fluids at final concentrations of 1 . 25 mg to 3 . 75 mg labetalol hydrochloride per mL of the mixture .
Labetalol hydrochloride injection was found to be compatible with and stable ( for 24 hours refrigerated or at room temperature ) in mixtures with the following solutions : Ringers Injection , USP Lactated Ringers Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and Ringers Injection 5 % Lactated Ringers and 5 % Dextrose Injection 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 33 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Labetalol hydrochloride injection was NOT compatible with 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP .
HOW SUPPLIED Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP , 5 mg / mL , is supplied as below : AIN code Fill Volume Strength NDC NUMBER AIN02969 4 mL Single - dose vial 20 mg / 4 mL 36000 - 320 - 10 ( Pack of 10 ) AIN02970 20 mL Multi - dose vial 100 mg / 20 mL 36000 - 322 - 02 ( Pack of 01 ) AIN02971 40 mL Multi - dose vial 200 mg / 40 mL 36000 - 324 - 02 ( Pack of 01 ) Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing and light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Manufactured by : Caplin Steriles Limited Gummidipoondi - 601 201 , India Manufactured for : Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA 2020 - 07 - 24 13160841 07 - 19 - 00 - 2758 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mL Vial NDC 36000 - 320 - 01 4 mL Single Dose Vial Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP 20 mg / 4 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only Baxter [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 36000 - 320 - 10 10 x 4 mL Single Dose Vials Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP 20 mg / 4 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only Baxter [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial NDC 36000 - 322 - 01 20 mL Multi - Dose Vial Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP 100 mg / 20 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only Baxter [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 36000 - 322 - 02 20 mL Multi - Dose Vial Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP 100 mg / 20 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only Baxter [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mL Vial NDC 36000 - 324 - 01 40 mL Multi - Dose Vial Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP 200 mg / 40 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only Baxter [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 36000 - 324 - 02 40 mL Multi - Dose Vial Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection USP 200 mg / 40 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only Rx Only Baxter [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
