Active ingredient Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Oclisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 4 . 0 % Oxybenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , carbomer , cetearyl alcohol , ceteareth - 20 , glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , diisopropyl adipate , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , dimethicone , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label Shopko * * Compare to Neutrogena ® Oil - Free Moisture SPF 15 Ingredients Oil - Free Facial Moisturizer With SPF 15 Hypoallergenic Non - Comedogenic Dermatologist Tested 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) Long - Lasting Oil - Free Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF15 Sunscreen has been clinically proven to combine effective protection against the sun with long - lasting moisturization for skin that is softer , smoother and younger - looking .
All Day Moisturizing This light , non - greasy lotion efficiently moisturizes skin for up to 12 hours .
The sheer formula is quickly absorbed , leaving skin softer and smoother .
Efficient protection against the sun Broad spectrum SPF15 sunscreen assists in fighting premature aging caused by daily exposure to the sun when used with other sun protection measures .
Non - comedogenic ( wo n't clog pores ) The oil - free formulation is quickly absorbed so it wo n't clog pores leading to skin breakouts .
Long - Lasting Oil - Free Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen is : • Hypoallergenic • Fragrance - Free • Alcohol - Free ( no drying alcohol ) DIRECTIONS FOR USE : Use morning and evening , alone or under make - up .
Apply over entire face and neck .
DERMATOLOGIST NOTE : Humectants increase the water content in skin without causing shine , clogging pores or smearing make - up .
Many oil - free products contain moisturizing agents with these humectants properties , making them ideal for oily skin .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Neutrogena ® owner of the registered trademark Neutrogena ® Oil - Free Moisture Distributed by ShopKo Stores Operating Co . , LLC Green Bay , WI 54307 © 2013 ShopKo Stores Operating Co . , LLC Made in Israel .
www . shopko . com 82026 8 C C1 SHOPKO * Satisfaction Guaranteed By Refund or Exchange [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
