Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each wipe ) Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use in place of a rinse - off cleanser .
Gently wipe across face , there is no need to rinse .
• use wipe to cleanse and cover the entire affected area with a thin layer of this product 1 to 3 times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • store in a cool , dry place • reseal pack to keep wipes moist • dispose of used wipe in the trash ( do not flush ) Inactive ingredients water , PPG - 14 butyl ether , ceteareth - 20 , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl isononanoate , phenoxyethanol , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , polysorbate 20 , fragrance , ceteareth - 12 , cetyl palmitate , benzoic acid , disodium EDTA , sodium hydroxide , dehydroacetic acid , BHT Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Wipes Pouch Label NEW Clearasil ® ULTRA On - The - Go Rapid Action Wipes 2 % Salicylic Acid Acne Medication FAST Starts clearing pores fast to fight breakouts on the go 30 Wipes 4 in2 ( 10 . 16 cm2 ) 8028124 070412 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
