DESCRIPTION Hydroxocobalamin injection is a sterile solution of hydroxocobalamin for intramuscular administration .
Each mL contains : Hydroxocobalamin Acetate equivalent to 1000 mcg Hydroxocobalamin , Sodium Acetate Anhydrous 0 . 2 mg , Glacial Acetic Acid 0 . 442 mg , Sodium Chloride 8 . 2 mg , with Methylparaben 1 . 5 mg and Propylparaben 0 . 2 mg as preservatives , in Water for Injection q . s . Additional Glacial Acetic Acid and / or Sodium Acetate may have been used to adjust pH . pH range is 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 .
Hydroxocobalamin appears as dark red orthorhombic needles or as an amorphous or crystalline red powder .
It is very hygroscopic in the anhydrous form , and moderately soluble in water .
It has a molecular weight of 1346 . 37 .
The vitamin B12 coenzymes are very unstable in light .
Hydroxocobalamin shares the cobalamin molecular structure with cyanocobalamin .
The chemical name is α - ( 5 , 6 - dimethylbenzimidazoly ) hydroxocobamide .
The empirical formula is C62H89CoN13O15P and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The cobalt content is 4 . 34 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Vitamin B12 is essential to growth , cell reproduction , hematopoiesis , nucleoprotein and myelin synthesis .
Fifty percent of the administered dose of hydroxocobalamin disappears from the injection site in 2 . 5 hours .
Hydroxocobalamin is bound to plasma proteins and stored in the liver .
It is excreted in the bile and undergoes some enterohepatic recycling .
Within 72 hours after injection of 500 to 1000 mcg of hydroxocobalamin , 16 to 66 percent of the injected dose may appear in the urine .
The major portion is excreted within the first 24 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Pernicious anemia , both uncomplicated and accompanied by nervous system involvement .
• Dietary deficiency of Vitamin B12 , occurring in strict vegetarians and in their breast - fed infants .
( Isolated vitamin B12 deficiency is very rare ) .
• Malabsorption of vitamin B12 , resulting from structural or functional damage to the stomach , where intrinsic factor is secreted or to the ileum , where intrinsic factor facilitates vitamin B12 absorption .
These conditions include tropical sprue , and nontropical sprue ( idiopathic steatorrhea , gluten - induced enteropathy ) .
Folate deficiency in these patients is usually more severe than vitamin B12 deficiency .
• Inadequate secretion of intrinsic factor , resulting from lesions that destroy the gastric mucosa ( ingestion of corrosives , extensive neoplasia ) , and a number of conditions associated with a variable degree of gastric atrophy ( such as multiple sclerosis , certain endocrine disorders , iron deficiency , and subtotal gastrectomy ) .
Total gastrectomy always produces vitamin B12 deficiency .
Structural lesions leading to vitamin B12 deficiency include regional ileitis , ileal resections , malignancies , etc .
• Competition for Vitamin B12 by intestinal parasites or bacteria .
The fish tapeworm ( Diphyllobothrium latum ) absorbs huge quantities of vitamin B12 and infested patients often have associated gastric atrophy .
The blind - loop syndrome may produce deficiency of Vitamin B12 or folate .
• Inadequate utilization of vitamin B12 .
This may occur if antimetabolites for the vitamin are employed in the treatment of neoplasia .
• For the Schilling Test .
CONTRAINDICATION Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS Avoid the intravenous route .
Folic acid is not a substitute for vitamin B12 although it may improve vitamin B12 deficient megaloblastic anemia .
Exclusive use of folic acid in treating vitamin B12 deficient megaloblastic anemia could result in progressive and irreversible neurologic damage .
Blunted or impeded therapeutic response to vitamin B12 may be due to such conditions as infection , uremia , drugs having bone marrow suppressant properties such as chloramphenicol , and concurrent iron or folic acid deficiency .
PRECAUTIONS General The validity of diagnostic vitamin B12 or folic acid blood assays could be compromised by medications , and this should be considered before relying on such tests for therapy .
Vitamin B12 is not a substitute for folic acid and since it might improve folic acid deficient megaloblastic anemia , indiscriminate use of vitamin B12 could mask the true diagnosis .
Hypokalemia and thrombocytosis could occur upon conversion of severe megaloblastic to normal erythropoiesis with B12 therapy .
Therefore , serum potassium levels and the platelet count should be monitored carefully during therapy .
Vitamin B12 deficiency may suppress the signs of polycythemia vera .
Treatment with vitamin B12 may unmask this condition .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility have not been performed with hydroxocobalamin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with hydroxocobalamin .
It is also not known whether hydroxocobalamin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Hydroxocobalamin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Mild transient diarrhea , itching , transitory exanthema , feeling of swelling of entire body , and anaphylaxis .
A few patients may experience pain after injection of hydroxocobalamin .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE The intravenous LD50 of hydroxocobalamin in mice is greater than 50 mL / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Protect from light .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Hydroxocobalamin injection should be given only intramuscularly .
In patients with Addisonian Pernicious Anemia , parenteral therapy with vitamin B12 is the recommended method of treatment and will be required for the remainder of the patient ’ s life .
Oral therapy is not dependable .
In other patients with vitamin B12 deficiency , the duration of therapy and route of administration will depend upon the cause and whether or not it is reversible .
Confirmatory diagnostic studies should be performed prior to initiating therapy , if possible , and the patient should be followed with appropriate studies to demonstrate hematologic improvement ( Hgb , hematocrit , RBC , reticulocyte count ) .
A diagnostic trial utilizing physiologic doses of vitamin B12 ( 1 mcg daily ) and observing daily reticulocyte counts after establishing a baseline may also be performed .
The observation of reticulocytosis which usually occurs between the third and tenth day of therapy confirms the diagnosis of vitamin B12 deficiency .
In seriously ill patients it may be advisable to administer both vitamin B12 and folic acid while awaiting the results of distinguishing laboratory studies .
It is not necessary to withhold vitamin B12 therapy until the precise cause of B12 deficiency is established since absorption studies can be performed at any time .
Serum potassium should be closely observed the first 48 hours and potassium should be administered if necessary .
Treatment of Vitamin B12 Deficiency Thirty mcg daily for 5 to 10 days followed by 100 to 200 mcg monthly injected intramuscularly .
If the patient is critically ill , or has neurologic disease , an infectious disease or hyperthyroidism , considerably higher doses may be indicated .
However , current data indicate that the optimum obtainable neurologic response may be expected with a dosage of vitamin B12 sufficient to produce good hematologic response .
Children may be given a total of 1 to 5 mg over a period of 2 or more weeks in doses of 100 mcg , then 30 to 50 mcg every 4 weeks for maintenance .
Patients who have normal intestinal absorption may be treated with an oral therapeutic multivitamin preparation , containing 15 mcg vitamin B12 daily .
Schilling Test The flushing dose is 1000 mcg .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxocobalamin Injection USP , 1000 mcg / mL is available in a 30 mL multiple dose vial , individually boxed .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Literature revised : January 2017 Manufactured by : Hikma Farmaceutica ( Portugal ) S . A . 2705 - 906 Terrugem SNT , Portugal Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA PIN229 - WAT / 2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 2888 - 30 30 mL Sterile Multiple Dose Vial Hydroxocobalamin Injection USP 30 , 000 mcg / 30 mL ( 1 , 000 mcg / mL ) FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE ONLY Actavis Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
