DESCRIPTION Cabergoline Tablets , USP contain Cabergoline USP a dopamine receptor agonist .
The chemical name for Cabergoline USP is 1 - [ ( 6 - allylergolin - 8β - yl ) - carbonyl ] - 1 - [ 3 - ( dimethylamino ) propyl ] - 3 - ethylurea .
Its molecular formula is C26H37N5O2 , and its molecular weight is 451 . 62 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cabergoline USP is a white powder soluble in ethyl alcohol , chloroform , and N , N - dimethylformamide ( DMF ) ; slightly soluble in 0 . 1 N hydrochloric acid ; very slightly soluble in n - hexane ; and insoluble in water .
Cabergoline Tablets , USP for oral administration , contains 0 . 5 mg of Cabergoline USP .
Inactive ingredients consist of microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , citric acid , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : The secretion of prolactin by the anterior pituitary is mainly under hypothalmic inhibitory control , likely exerted through release of dopamine by tuberoinfundibular neurons .
Cabergoline is a long - acting dopamine receptor agonist with a high affinity for D2 receptors .
Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that cabergoline exerts a direct inhibitory effect on the secretion of prolactin by rat pituitary lactotrophs .
Cabergoline decreased serum prolactin levels in reserpinized rats .
Receptor - binding studies indicate that cabergoline has low affinity for dopamine D1 , α1 - and α2 - adrenergic , and 5 - HT1 - and 5 - HT2 - serotonin receptors .
Clinical Studies : The prolactin - lowering efficacy of cabergoline was demonstrated in hyperprolactinemic women in two randomized , double - blind , comparative studies , one with placebo and the other with bromocriptine .
In the placebo - controlled study ( placebo n = 20 ; cabergoline n = 168 ) , cabergoline produced a dose - related decrease in serum prolactin levels with prolactin normalized after 4 weeks of treatment in 29 % , 76 % , 74 % and 95 % of the patients receiving 0 . 125 , 0 . 5 , 0 . 75 , and 1 mg twice weekly , respectively .
In the 8 - week , double - blind period of the comparative trial with bromocriptine ( cabergoline n = 223 ; bromocriptine n = 236 in the intent - to - treat analysis ) , prolactin was normalized in 77 % of the patients treated with cabergoline at 0 . 5 mg twice weekly compared with 59 % of those treated with bromocriptine at 2 . 5 mg twice daily .
Restoration of menses occurred in 77 % of the women treated with cabergoline , compared with 70 % of those treated with bromocriptine .
Among patients with galactorrhea , this symptom disappeared in 73 % of those treated with cabergoline compared with 56 % of those treated with bromocriptine .
PHARMACOKINETICS Absorption : Following single oral doses of 0 . 5 mg to 1 . 5 mg given to 12 healthy adult volunteers , mean peak plasma levels of 30 to 70 picograms ( pg ) / mL of cabergoline were observed within 2 to 3 hours .
Over the 0 . 5 to 7 mg dose range , cabergoline plasma levels appeared to be dose - proportional in 12 healthy adult volunteers and nine adult parkinsonian patients .
A repeat - dose study in 12 healthy volunteers suggests that steady - state levels following a once - weekly dosing schedule are expected to be twofold to threefold higher than after a single dose .
The absolute bioavailability of cabergoline is unknown .
A significant fraction of the administered dose undergoes a first - pass effect .
The elimination half - life of cabergoline estimated from urinary data of 12 healthy subjects ranged between 63 to 69 hours .
The prolonged prolactin - lowering effect of cabergoline may be related to its slow elimination and long half - life .
Distribution : In animals , based on total radioactivity , cabergoline ( and / or its metabolites ) has shown extensive tissue distribution .
Radioactivity in the pituitary exceeded that in plasma by > 100 - fold and was eliminated with a half - life of approximately 60 hours .
This finding is consistent with the long - lasting prolactin - lowering effect of the drug .
Whole body autoradiography studies in pregnant rats showed no fetal uptake but high levels in the uterine wall .
Significant radioactivity ( parent plus metabolites ) detected in the milk of lactating rats suggests a potential for exposure to nursing infants .
The drug is extensively distributed throughout the body .
Cabergoline is moderately bound ( 40 % to 42 % ) to human plasma proteins in a concentration - independent manner .
Concomitant dosing of highly protein - bound drugs is unlikely to affect its disposition .
Metabolism : In both animals and humans , cabergoline is extensively metabolized , predominately via hydrolysis of the acylurea bond or the urea moiety .
Cytochrome P - 450 mediated metabolism appears to be minimal .
Cabergoline does not cause enzyme induction and / or inhibition in the rat .
Hydrolysis of the acylurea or urea moiety abolishes the prolactin - lowering effect of cabergoline , and major metabolites identified thus far do not contribute to the therapeutic effect .
Excretion : After oral dosing of radioactive cabergoline to five healthy volunteers , approximately 22 % and 60 % of the dose was excreted within 20 days in the urine and feces , respectively .
Less than 4 % of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine .
Nonrenal and renal clearances for cabergoline are about 3 . 2 L / min and 0 . 08 L / min , respectively .
Urinary excretion in hyperprolactinemic patients was similar .
Special Populations Renal Insufficiency : The pharmacokinetics of cabergoline were not altered in 12 patients with moderate - to severe renal insufficiency as assessed by creatinine clearance .
Hepatic Insufficiency : In 12 patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic dysfunction ( Child - Pugh score ≤ 10 ) , no effect on mean cabergoline Cmax or area under the plasma concentration curve ( AUC ) was observed .
However , patients with severe insufficiency ( Child - Pugh score > 10 ) show a substantial increase in the mean cabergoline Cmax and AUC , and thus necessitate caution .
Elderly : Effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of cabergoline has not been studied .
Food - Drug Interaction In 12 healthy adult volunteers , food did not alter cabergoline kinetics .
PHARMACODYNAMICS Dose response with inhibition of plasma prolactin , onset of maximal effect , and duration of effect has been documented following single cabergoline doses to healthy volunteers ( 0 . 05 to 1 . 5 mg ) and hyperprolactinemic patients ( 0 . 3 to 1 mg ) .
In volunteers , prolactin inhibition was evident at doses > 0 . 2 mg , while doses ≥ 0 . 5 mg caused maximal suppression in most subjects .
Higher doses produce prolactin suppression in a greater proportion of subjects and with an earlier onset and longer duration of action .
In 12 healthy volunteers , 0 . 5 , 1 and 1 . 5 mg doses resulted in complete prolactin inhibition , with a maximum effect within 3 hours in 92 % to 100 % of subjects after the 1 and 1 . 5 mg doses compared with 50 % of subjects after the 0 . 5 mg dose .
In hyperprolactinemic patients ( n = 51 ) , the maximal prolactin decrease after a 0 . 6 mg single dose of cabergoline was comparable to 2 . 5 mg bromocriptine ; however , the duration of effect was markedly longer ( 14 days vs . 24 hours ) .
The time to maximal effect was shorter for bromocriptine than cabergoline ( 6 hours vs . 48 hours ) .
In 72 healthy volunteers , single or multiple doses ( up to 2 mg ) of cabergoline resulted in selective inhibition of prolactin with no apparent effect on other anterior pituitary hormones ( GH , FSH , LH , ACTH , and TSH ) or cortisol .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cabergoline Tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of hyperprolactinemic disorders , either idiopathic or due to pituitary adenomas .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cabergoline Tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with : • Uncontrolled hypertension or known hypersensitivity to ergot derivatives .
• History of cardiac valvular disorders , as suggested by anatomical evidence of valvulopathy of any valve , determined by pre - treatment evaluation including echocardiographic demonstration of valve leaflet thickening , valve restriction , or mixed valve restriction - stenosis .
( See WARNINGS ) • History of pulmonary , pericardial , or retroperitoneal fibrotic disorders .
( See WARNINGS ) WARNINGS • Pregnancy : Dopamine agonists in general should not be used in patients with pregnancy - induced hypertension , for example , preeclampsia eclampsia , and post partum hypertension , unless the potential benefit is judged to outweigh the possible risk .
• Fibrotic Complications : a . Cardiac Valvulopathy : All patients should undergo a cardiovascular evaluation , including echocardiogram to assess the potential presence of valvular disease .
If valvular disease is detected , the patient should not be treated with cabergoline ( See Contraindications ) .
Post marketing cases of cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in patients receiving cabergoline .
These cases have generally occurred during administration of high doses of cabergoline ( > 2 mg / day ) for the treatment of Parkinson ' s disease .
Cases of cardiac valvulopathy have also been reported in patients receiving lower doses of cabergoline for the treatment of hyperprolactinemic disorders .
A multi - country , retrospective cohort study using general practice records and record linkage systems in the UK , Italy and the Netherlands was conducted to assess the association between new use of dopamine agonists including cabergoline ( n = 27 , 812 ) for Parkinson ' s disease and hyperprolactinemia and cardiac valvular regurgitation ( CVR ) , other fibroses , and other cardiopulmonary events over a maximum of 12 years of follow up .
In this study , the use of cabergoline among persons with Parkinson ' s disease was associated with an increased risk of CVR when compared to non - ergot - derived dopamine agonists ( DAs ) and levodopa [ Incidence Rate ( IR ) per 10 , 000 person years of 68 . 1 ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) : 37 . 2 - 115 . 3 ) for cabergoline vs . 10 . 0 ( 95 % CI : 5 . 2 - 19 . 4 ) for non - ergot DAs and 11 . 3 ( 95 % CI : 7 . 2 - 17 . 0 ) for levodopa ] .
In the study analysis confined to persons with dopamine agonist - treated hyperprolactinemia ( n = 8 , 386 ) , when compared to non - use ( n = 15 , 147 ) , persons exposed to cabergoline did not have an elevated risk of CVR .
The findings with respect to the risk of CVR associated with cabergoline treatment for persons with Parkinson ' s disease ( increased risk ) and those with hyperprolactinemia ( no increased risk ) are consistent with the findings in other published studies .
Physicians should use the lowest effective dose of cabergoline for the treatment of hyperprolactinemic disorders and should periodically reassess the need for continuing therapy with cabergoline .
Following treatment initiation , clinical and diagnostic monitoring ( for example , chest x - ray , CT scan and cardiac echocardiogram ) should be conducted to assess the risk of cardiac valvulopathy .
The recommended frequency of routine echocardiographic monitoring is every 6 to 12 months or as clinically indicated with the presence of signs and symptoms such as edema , new cardiac murmer , dyspnea or congestive heart failure .
Cabergoline should be discontinued if an echocardiogram reveals new valvular regurgitation , valvular restriction or valve leaflet thickening .
Cabergoline should be used with caution in patients exposed to other medications associated with valvulopathy .
b . Extracardiac Fibrotic Reactions : Postmarketing cases of pleural , pericardial and retroperitoneal fibrosis have been following administration of cabergoline .
Some reports were in patients previously treated with other ergotinic dopamine agonists .
Cabergoline should not be used in patients with a history of cardiac or extracardiac fibrotic disorders .
Fibrotic disorders can have an insidious onset and patients should be monitored for manifestations of progressive fibrosis .
Therefore , during treatment , attention should be paid to the signs and symptoms of : • Pleuro - pulmonary disease such as dyspnea , shortness of breath , persistent cough or chest pain • Renal insufficiency or ureteral / abdominal vascular obstruction that may occur with pain in the loin / flank and lower limb edema as well as any possible abdominal masses or tenderness that may indicate retroperitoneal fibrosis .
• Cardiac failure : Cases of valvular and pericardial fibrosis have often manifested as cardiac failure .
Therefore , valvular fibrosis ( and constrictive pericarditis ) should be excluded if such symptoms occur .
Clinical and diagnostic monitoring such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate , chest x - ray , serum creatinine measurements , and other investigations should be considered at baseline and as necessary while patients are treated with cabergoline .
Following diagnosis of pleural effusion or pulmonary fibrosis , the discontinuance of cabergoline was reported to result in improvement of signs and symptoms .
PRECAUTIONS General Precautions General : Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension .
Care should be exercised when administering cabergoline with other medications known to lower blood pressure .
Postpartum Lactation Inhibition or Suppression : Cabergoline is not indicated for the inhibition or suppression of physiologic lactation .
Use of bromocriptine , another dopamine agonist for this purpose , has been associated with cases of hypertension , stroke , and seizures .
Hepatic Impairment : Since cabergoline is extensively metabolized by the liver , caution should be used , and careful monitoring exercised , when administering cabergoline to patients with hepatic impairment .
Psychiatric : Impulse control / compulsive behaviors , including pathological gambling , increased libido , and hypersexuality have been reported in patients treated with dopamine agonists including cabergoline .
This has been generally reversible upon reduction of the dose or treatment discontinuation ( see Post - marketing Surveillance data ) .
Prescribers should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking cabergoline .
Information for patients Patients should be altered to the possibility that patients may experience intense urges to spend money uncontrollably , intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , and other intense urges and the inability to control these urges while taking cabergoline .
Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider if they develop new or increased uncontrolled spending , gambling urges , sexual urges , or other urges while being treated with cabergoline [ See PRECAUTIONS ] .
Patients should be instructed to notify their physician if they suspect they are pregnant , become pregnant , or intend to become pregnant during therapy .
A pregnancy test should be done if there is any suspicion of pregnancy and continuation of treatment should be discussed with their physician .
Patients should notify their physician if they develop shortness of breath , persistent cough , difficulty with breathing when lying down , or swelling in their extremities .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Cabergoline should not be administered concurrently with D2 - antagonists , such as phenothiazines , butyrophenones , thioxanthenes , or metoclopramide .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with cabergoline given by gavage at doses up to 0 . 98 mg / kg / day and 0 . 32 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are 7 times and 4 times the maximum recommended human dose calculated on a body surface area basis using total mg / m2 / week in rodents and mg / m2 / week for a 50 kg human .
There was a slight increase in the incidence of cervical and uterine leiomyomas and uterine leiomyosarcomas in mice .
In rats , there was a slight increase in malignant tumors of the cervix and uterus and interstitial cell adenomas .
The occurrence of tumors in female rodents may be related to the prolonged suppression of prolactin secretion because prolactin is needed in rodents for the maintenance of the corpus luteum .
In the absence of prolactin , the estrogen / progesterone ratio is increased , thereby increasing the risk for uterine tumors .
In male rodents , the decrease in serum prolactin levels was associated with an increase in serum luteinizing hormone , which is thought to be a compensatory effect to maintain testicular steroid synthesis .
Since these hormonal mechanisms are thought to be species - specific , the relevance of these tumors to humans is not known .
The mutagenic potential of cabergoline was evaluated and found to be negative in a battery of in vitro tests .
These tests included the bacterial mutation ( Ames ) test with Salmonella typhimurium , the gene mutation assay with Schizosaccharomyces pombe P1 and V79 Chinese hamster cells , DNA damage and repair in Saccharomyces cerevisiae D4 , and chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocytes .
Cabergoline was also negative in the bone marrow micronucleus test in the mouse .
In female rats , a daily dose of 0 . 003 mg / kg for 2 weeks prior to mating and throughout the mating period inhibited conception .
This dose represents approximately 1 / 28 the maximum recommended human dose calculated on a body surface area basis using total mg / m2 / week in rats and mg / m2 / week for a 50 kg human .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Category B Reproduction studies have been performed with cabergoline in mice , rats , and rabbits administered by gavage .
( Multiples of the maximum recommended human dose in this section are calculated on a body surface area basis using total mg / m2 / week for animals and mg / m2 / week for a 50 kg human . )
There were maternotoxic effects but no teratogenic effects in mice given cabergoline at doses up to 8 mg / kg / day ( approximately 55 times the maximum recommended human dose ) during the period of organogenesis .
A dose of 0 . 012 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 / 7 the maximum recommended human dose ) during the period of organogenesis in rats caused an increase in post - implantation embryofetal losses .
These losses could be due to the prolactin inhibitory properties of cabergoline in rats .
At daily doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 19 times the maximum recommended human dose ) during the period of organogenesis in the rabbit , cabergoline caused maternotoxicity characterized by a loss of body weight and decreased food consumption .
Doses of 4 mg / kg / day ( approximately 150 times the maximum recommended human dose ) during the period of organogenesis in the rabbit caused an increased occurrence of various malformations .
However , in another study in rabbits , no treatment - related malformations or embryofetotoxicity were observed at doses up to 8 mg / kg / day ( approximately 300 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
In rats , doses higher than 0 . 003 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 / 28 the maximum recommended human dose ) from 6 days before parturition and throughout the lactation period inhibited growth and caused death of offspring due to decreased milk secretion .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from cabergoline , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Use of cabergoline for the inhibition or suppression of physiologic lactation is not recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .
The prolactin - lowering action of cabergoline suggests that it will interfere with lactation .
Due to this interference with lactation , cabergoline should not be given to women postpartum who are breastfeeding or who are planning to breastfeed .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness of cabergoline in pediatric patients have not been established .
GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of cabergoline did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Cabergoline Tablets , USP has been evaluated in more than 900 patients with hyperprolactinemic disorders .
Most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity .
In a 4 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study , treatment consisted of placebo or cabergoline at fixed doses of 0 . 125 , 0 . 5 , 0 . 75 , or 1 mg twice weekly .
Doses were halved during the first week .
Since a possible dose - related effect was observed for nausea only , the four cabergoline treatment groups have been combined .
The incidence of the most common adverse events during the placebo - controlled study is presented in the following table .
Incidence of Reported Adverse Events During the 4 - week , Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Trial * Reported at ≥ 1 % for cabergoline Adverse Event * Cabergoline ( n = 168 ) 0 . 125 to 1 mg two times a week Placebo ( n = 20 ) Number ( percent ) Gastrointestinal Nausea 45 ( 27 ) 4 ( 20 ) Constipation 16 ( 10 ) 0 Abdominal pain 9 ( 5 ) 1 ( 5 ) Dyspepsia 4 ( 2 ) 0 Vomiting 4 ( 2 ) 0 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 43 ( 26 ) 5 ( 25 ) Dizziness 25 ( 15 ) 1 ( 5 ) Paresthesia 2 ( 1 ) 0 Vertigo 2 ( 1 ) 0 Body As A Whole Asthenia 15 ( 9 ) 2 ( 10 ) Fatigue 12 ( 7 ) 0 Hot flashes 2 ( 1 ) 1 ( 5 ) Psychiatric Somnolence 9 ( 5 ) 1 ( 5 ) Depression 5 ( 3 ) 1 ( 5 ) Nervousness 4 ( 2 ) 0 Autonomic Nervous System Postural hypotension 6 ( 4 ) 0 Reproductive - Female Breast pain 2 ( 1 ) 0 Dysmenorrhea 2 ( 1 ) 0 Vision Abnormal vision 2 ( 1 ) 0 In the 8 - week , double - blind period of the comparative trial with bromocriptine , cabergoline ( at a dose of 0 . 5 mg twice weekly ) was discontinued because of an adverse event in 4 of 221 patients ( 2 % ) while bromocriptine ( at a dose of 2 . 5 mg two times a day ) was discontinued in 14 of 231 patients ( 6 % ) .
The most common reasons for discontinuation from cabergoline were headache , nausea and vomiting ( 3 , 2 , and 2 patients , respectively ) ; the most common reasons for discontinuation from bromocriptine were nausea , vomiting , headache , and dizziness or vertigo ( 10 , 3 , 3 , and 3 patients , respectively ) .
The incidence of the most common adverse events during the double - blind portion of the comparative trial with bromocriptine is presented in the following table .
Incidence of Reported Adverse Events During the 8 - week , Double - Blind Period of the Comparative Trial with Bromocriptine * Reported at ≥ 1 % for cabergoline Adverse Event * Cabergoline ( n = 221 ) Bromocriptine ( n = 231 ) Number ( percent ) Gastrointestinal Nausea 63 ( 29 ) 100 ( 43 ) Constipation 15 ( 7 ) 21 ( 9 ) Abdominal pain 12 ( 5 ) 19 ( 8 ) Dyspepsia 11 ( 5 ) 16 ( 7 ) Vomiting 9 ( 4 ) 16 ( 7 ) Dry mouth 5 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) Diarrhea 4 ( 2 ) 7 ( 3 ) Flatulence 4 ( 2 ) 3 ( 1 ) Throat irritation 2 ( 1 ) 0 Toothache 2 ( 1 ) 0 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 58 ( 26 ) 62 ( 27 ) Dizziness 38 ( 17 ) 42 ( 18 ) Vertigo 9 ( 4 ) 10 ( 4 ) Paresthesia 5 ( 2 ) 6 ( 3 ) Body As A Whole Asthenia 13 ( 6 ) 15 ( 6 ) Fatigue 10 ( 5 ) 18 ( 8 ) Syncope 3 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 ) Influenza - like symptoms 2 ( 1 ) 0 Malaise 2 ( 1 ) 0 Periorbital edema 2 ( 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Peripheral edema 2 ( 1 ) 1 Psychiatric Depression 7 ( 3 ) 5 ( 2 ) Somnolence 5 ( 2 ) 5 ( 2 ) Anorexia 3 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 ) Anxiety 3 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 ) Insomnia 3 ( 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Impaired concentration 2 ( 1 ) 1 Nervousness 2 ( 1 ) 5 ( 2 ) Cardiovascular Hot flashes 6 ( 3 ) 3 ( 1 ) Hypotension 3 ( 1 ) 4 ( 2 ) Dependent edema 2 ( 1 ) 1 Palpitation 2 ( 1 ) 5 ( 2 ) Reproductive – Female Breast pain 5 ( 2 ) 8 ( 3 ) Dysmenorrhea 2 ( 1 ) 1 Skin and Appendages Acne 3 ( 1 ) 0 Pruritus 2 ( 1 ) 1 Musculoskeletal Pain 4 ( 2 ) 6 ( 3 ) Arthralgia 2 ( 1 ) 0 Respiratory Rhinitis 2 ( 1 ) 9 ( 4 ) Vision Abnormal Vision 2 ( 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Other adverse events that were reported at an incidence of < 1 . 0 % in the overall clinical studies follow .
Body as a Whole : facial edema , influenza - like symptoms , malaise Cardiovascular System : hypotension , syncope , palpitations Digestive System : dry mouth , flatulence , diarrhea , anorexia Metabolic and Nutritional System : weight loss , weight gain Nervous System : somnolence , nervousness , paresthesia , insomnia , anxiety Respiratory System : nasal stuffiness , epistaxis Skin and Appendages : acne , pruritus Special Senses : abnormal vision Urogenital System : dysmenorrhea , increased libido The safety of cabergoline has been evaluated in approximately 1 , 200 patients with Parkinson ' s disease in controlled and uncontrolled studies at dosages of up to 11 . 5 mg / day which greatly exceeds the maximum recommended dosage of cabergoline for hyperprolactinemic disorders .
In addition to the adverse events that occurred in the patients with hyperprolactinemic disorders , the most common adverse events in patients with Parkinson ' s disease were dyskinesia , hallucinations , confusion , and peripheral edema .
Heart failure , pleural effusion , pulmonary fibrosis , and gastric or duodenal ulcer occurred rarely .
One case of constrictive pericarditis has been reported .
Post - marketing Surveillance data : The following events have been reported in association with cabergoline : Cardiac valvulopathy and extracardiac fibrotic reactions , ( see WARNINGS , Cardiac Valvulopathy and Extracardiac Fibrotic Reactions ) .
Other events have been reported in association with cabergoline : impulse control / compulsive behavior symptoms , including hypersexuality , increased libido and pathological gambling ( see PRECAUTIONS , Psychiatric ) .
In addition , cases of alopecia , aggression and psychotic disorder have been reported in patients taking cabergoline .
Some of these reports have been in patients who have had prior adverse reactions to dopamine agonist products .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 877 - 748 - 1970 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch OVERDOSAGE Overdosage might be expected to produce nasal congestion , syncope , or hallucinations .
Measures to support blood pressure should be taken if necessary .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of Cabergoline Tablets , USP for initiation of therapy is 0 . 25 mg twice a week .
Dosage may be increased by 0 . 25 mg twice weekly up to a dosage of 1 mg twice a week according to the patient ' s serum prolactin level .
Before initiating treatment , cardiovascular evaluation should be performed and echocardiography should be considered to assess for valvular disease .
Dosage increases should not occur more rapidly than every 4 weeks , so that the physician can assess the patient ' s response to each dosage level .
If the patient does not respond adequately , and no additional benefit is observed with higher doses , the lowest dose that achieved maximal response should be used and other therapeutic approaches considered .
Patients receiving long term treatment with cabergoline should undergo periodic assessment of their cardiac status and echocardiography should be considered .
After a normal serum prolactin level has been maintained for 6 months , cabergoline may be discontinued , with periodic monitoring of the serum prolactin level to determine whether or when treatment with cabergoline should be reinstituted .
The durability of efficacy beyond 24 months of therapy with cabergoline has not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED Cabergoline Tablets , USP are white to off - white , oval shaped , flat face , beveled edge tablet containing 0 . 5 mg Cabergoline USP .
Each tablet is scored on one side and has the letters " IN " and the letter " G " on either side of breakline .
The other side of the tablet is engraved with the number " 118 " .
Cabergoline Tablets , USP are available as follows : Bottle of 8 tablets NDC 50742 - 118 - 08 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Dispense in original container .
Rx only Manufactured for : Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC Orlando , FL 32839 - 6408 Made in India Revised : 10 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
