• Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 08 / 2020 • Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 08 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ULTRAVATE lotion is indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 12 years of age and older .
ULTRAVATE lotion is a corticosteroid indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 12 years of age and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of ULTRAVATE lotion to the affected skin twice daily for up to two weeks .
Rub in gently .
Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within two weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Treatment beyond two weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 50 grams ( 50 ml ) per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
ULTRAVATE lotion is for external use only .
Avoid use on the face , scalp , groin , or axillae .
ULTRAVATE lotion is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin layer to the affected areas twice daily .
( 2 ) • • Limit use to 50 g / week .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue treatment when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • • If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassess diagnosis .
( 2 ) • • Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended .
( 2 ) • • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use on the face , scalp , groin , or axillae .
( 2 ) • • Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ULTRAVATE ( halobetasol propionate ) lotion , 0 . 05 % is a white to off - white lotion .
Each gram of ULTRAVATE lotion contains 0 . 5 mg of halobetasol propionate .
Lotion : 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 5 mg / g ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression may occur , with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during or after treatment .
Systemic absorption may require evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
Use of potent corticosteroids on large areas , for prolonged durations , under occlusive dressings , or on an altered skin barrier may increase systemic exposure .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Local adverse reactions with topical steroids may include atrophy , striae , irritation , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , and allergic contact dermatitis .
Adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) • • Topical corticosteroids may increase the risk of cataract and glaucoma formation .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System ULTRAVATE lotion has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression , with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of treatment of the topical corticosteroid .
The potential for hypothalamic - pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) suppression with ULTRAVATE lotion was evaluated in the following studies : • • In a study of 20 adult subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis involving ≥ 20 % of their body surface area .
ULTRAVATE lotion produced HPA axis suppression when used twice daily for two weeks in 5 out of 20 ( 25 % ) adult subjects with plaque psoriasis .
The effects of HPA axis suppression were reversible on discontinuation of the treatment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
• • In another clinical study , 16 adolescent subjects ( 12 to less than 17 years old ) with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis involving 10 % or more of their body surface area applied a maximum of approximately 50 grams of ULTRAVATE lotion to affected areas twice daily for two weeks .
Of the 14 subjects evaluated for HPA axis suppression , adrenal suppression occurred in 1 subject ( 7 % ) which recovered upon retest [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids , including ULTRAVATE lotion , may require that patients be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , occlusive use , use on an altered skin barrier , concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products , liver failure , and young age .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , attempt to gradually withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from the use of topical corticosteroids due to their larger surface - to - body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions Local adverse reactions from topical corticosteroids may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
These may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use , or use of higher potency corticosteroids , including ULTRAVATE lotion .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Use of topical corticosteroids may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts and glaucoma have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical corticosteroid products .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections Use an appropriate antimicrobial agent if a skin infection is present or develops .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , discontinue use of ULTRAVATE lotion until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 5 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Consider confirmation of a clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis by appropriate patch testing .
Discontinue ULTRAVATE lotion if allergic contact dermatitis is established .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are telangiectasia , application site atrophy , and headache .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During randomized , controlled , blinded clinical trials 277 adults with plaque psoriasis were treated with ULTRAVATE lotion twice daily for up to two weeks ( up to approximately 50 grams / week ) .
Table 1 presents adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects treated with ULTRAVATE lotion twice daily for up to two weeks , and more frequently than in vehicle - treated subjects .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects Treated with ULTRAVATE Lotion for up to Two Weeks ULTRAVATE Lotion ( N = 277 ) Vehicle Lotion ( N = 259 ) Adverse Reaction % % Telangiectasia 1 % 0 % Application site atrophy 1 % < 1 % Headache 1 % < 1 % Less common adverse reactions ( incidence less than 1 % but greater than 0 . 1 % ) that occurred in subjects treated with ULTRAVATE lotion included application site discoloration , herpes zoster , influenza , nasopharyngitis , otitis media acute , throat infection , wound , and increased blood pressure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Ultravate lotion use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Published data report an increased risk of low birthweight with the use of greater than 300 grams of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid during pregnancy .
In animal reproduction studies , halobetasol propionate administered systemically during organogenesis to pregnant rats at 13 and 33 times the human topical dose and to pregnant rabbits at 3 times the human topical dose resulted in teratogenic and embryotoxic effects [ see Data ] .
The clinical relevance of the animal findings is not clear .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Multiple observational studies found no significant associations between maternal use of topical corticosteroids of any potency and congenital malformations , preterm delivery , or fetal mortality .
However , when the dispensed amount of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid exceeded 300 g during the entire pregnancy , use was associated with an increase in low birth weight infants .
Animal Data Halobetasol propionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits when given systemically during organogenesis at doses of 0 . 04 to 0 . 1 mg / kg / day in rats and 0 . 01 mg / kg / day in rabbits .
These doses are approximately 13 , 33 , and 3 times , respectively , the human topical dose of halobetasol propionate , 0 . 05 % .
Halobetasol propionate was embryotoxic in rabbits but not in rats .
Cleft palate was observed in both rats and rabbits .
Omphalocele was seen in rats , but not in rabbits .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of halobetasol propionate or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production after topical application to women who are breastfeeding .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ULTRAVATE lotion and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ULTRAVATE lotion or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Advise breastfeeding women not to apply ULTRAVATE lotion directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ULTRAVATE lotion for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis have been established in patients 12 years of age and older .
It is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled trials in adults and from one uncontrolled safety trial in 16 adolescents ( 12 to less than 17 years of age ) .
Adolescent patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis covering a minimum of 10 % of the total body surface area were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with ULTRAVATE lotion .
Hypothalamic - pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) axis function ( ACTH stimulation test ) was evaluated in a subset of 14 patients .
After 2 weeks of treatment , 1 of 14 patients ( 7 % ) experienced laboratory evidence of adrenal suppression ( i . e . , cortisol serum level of ≤ 18 μg / dL ) that recovered upon retest .
No other adverse reactions were reported in the study .
Because of higher skin surface area to body mass ratios , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse reactions including striae have been reported with use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies with ULTRAVATE lotion included 89 subjects aged 65 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and those younger than 65 years .
Clinical studies of ULTRAVATE lotion did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied ULTRAVATE lotion can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION ULTRAVATE ( halobetasol propionate ) lotion , 0 . 05 % for topical use contains a corticosteroid , halobetasol propionate .
The chemical name of halobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 6α , 9 - difluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 - 20 - dione , 17 - propionate .
Halobetasol propionate is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 484 . 96 and a molecular formula of C25H31ClF2O5 .
It is practically insoluble in water and freely soluble in dichloromethane and in acetone .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of ULTRAVATE lotion contains 0 . 5 mg of halobetasol propionate in a white to off - white lotion base consisting of diisopropyl adipate , octyldodecanol , ceteth - 20 , poloxamer 407 , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , propylparaben , butylparaben , propylene glycol , glycerin , carbomer homopolymer , sodium hydroxide , and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in plaque psoriasis is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstriction : A vasoconstrictor assay in healthy subjects with ULTRAVATE lotion indicated that the formulation is in the super - high range of potency as compared to other topical corticosteroids ; however , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression : The potential for hypothalamic - pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) suppression was evaluated in the following two studies .
In both studies , the criteria for HPA - axis suppression was a serum cortisol level of less than or equal to 18 micrograms per deciliter 30 minutes after stimulation with cosyntropin ( adrenocorticotropic hormone , ACTH ) .
In the first study , ULTRAVATE lotion was applied to 20 adult subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis .
A mean dose of 3 . 5 grams ULTRAVATE lotion was applied twice daily for two weeks and produced HPA axis suppression in 5 of 20 ( 25 % ) subjects .
The effects of HPA axis suppression were reversible on retesting at least four weeks after discontinuation of the treatment .
In the second study , ULTRAVATE lotion was applied to 16 adolescent subjects 12 years to less than 17 years of age with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis affecting a mean body surface area of 11 . 5 % ( range from 10 % to 14 % ) .
The mean dose was 3 . 6 grams applied twice daily for two weeks .
A subset of 14 of the 16 completed subjects had evaluable ACTH stimulation tests , and HPA axis suppression was observed in 1 of these 14 subjects ( 7 % ) .
In the second study also , the effects of HPA axis suppression were reversible on retesting at least four weeks after discontinuation of the treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
In the HPA clinical study [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , pharmacokinetics was evaluated in a subgroup of 12 adult subjects .
On Day 8 , blood was taken just prior to and at 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , and 12 hours following the last application .
Plasma concentration of halobetasol propionate ( HBP ) was measurable in all subjects .
Based on the geometric mean plasma concentrations at 12 hours post - application across time , steady - state was achieved by Day 8 .
The mean ( ± standard deviation ) Cmax concentrations for ULTRAVATE lotion on Day 8 was 201 . 1 ± 157 . 5 pg / mL , with the corresponding median Tmax value of 3 hours ( range 0 – 6 hours ) ; mean area under the halobetasol propionate concentration versus time curve over the dosing interval ( AUCτ ) was 1632 ± 1147 pg • h / mL .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients In the pediatric HPA study [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , trough plasma concentrations of HBP were measured on Day 8 and Day 15 in a subset of 14 subjects .
The HBP levels in the plasma were below the quantification limit ( 20 pg / mL ) for all subjects at all time points with the exception of one subject at Day 15 ( trough concentration of HBP of 28 . 2 pg / mL ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of halobetasol propionate .
In a 90 - day repeat - dose toxicity study in rats , topical administration of halobetasol propionate lotion at dose concentrations from 0 . 05 % to 0 . 1 % or from 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg / kg / day of halobetasol propionate resulted in a toxicity profile consistent with long - term exposure to corticosteroids including adrenal atrophy , histopathological changes in several organ systems indicative of severe immune suppression , and opportunistic fungal and bacterial infections .
A no observable adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) could not be determined in this study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk of carcinogenesis .
Halobetasol propionate was not found to be genotoxic in the Ames / Salmonella assay , in the Chinese hamster CHO / HGPRT assay , in the mouse micronucleus test , in the sister chromatid exchange test in somatic cells of the Chinese hamster , or in the chromosome aberration test in somatic cells of Chinese hamsters .
Positive mutagenicity effects were observed in two genotoxicity assays : Chinese hamster nuclear anomaly test and mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay in vitro .
Studies in the rat following oral administration at dose levels up to 50 µg / kg / day indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES ULTRAVATE lotion was evaluated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials .
These trials were conducted in 443 subjects 18 years of age and older with plaque psoriasis involving between 2 % and 12 % body surface area .
Baseline disease severity was determined using a static , five - level global evaluation scale , on which a subject scored either moderate or severe .
Overall , 57 % of subjects were male and 86 % were Caucasian .
Subjects applied ULTRAVATE lotion or vehicle to all affected areas twice daily for up to 14 consecutive days .
The primary measure of efficacy was Overall Treatment Success , defined as the proportion of subjects who were cleared or almost cleared with at least a two grade improvement from baseline at Week 2 ( end of treatment ) .
Table 2 presents these results .
Table 2 .
Overall Treatment Success in Subjects with Plaque Psoriasis at Week 2 Study 1 Study 2 ULTRAVATE Lotion N = 110 Vehicle Lotion N = 111 ULTRAVATE Lotion N = 110 Vehicle Lotion N = 112 Overall Treatment Success * 49 ( 44 . 5 % ) 7 ( 6 . 3 % ) 49 ( 44 . 5 % ) 8 ( 7 . 1 % ) * Subjects whose condition was cleared or almost cleared of all signs of psoriasis and with at least a two grade improvement from baseline .
The secondary measures of efficacy were Treatment Success for individual signs of psoriasis ( scaling , erythema , and plaque elevation ) at the end of treatment ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 .
Individual Signs Treatment Success in Subjects with Plaque Psoriasis at Week 2 Study 1 Study 2 Treatment Success * ULTRAVATE Lotion N = 110 Vehicle Lotion N = 111 ULTRAVATE Lotion N = 110 Vehicle Lotion N = 112 Scaling 61 ( 55 . 5 % ) 12 ( 10 . 8 % ) 65 ( 59 . 1 % ) 11 ( 9 . 8 % ) Erythema 40 ( 36 . 4 % ) 8 ( 7 . 2 % ) 48 ( 43 . 6 % ) 12 ( 10 . 7 % ) Plaque Elevation 50 ( 45 . 5 % ) 9 ( 8 . 1 % ) 48 ( 43 . 6 % ) 9 ( 8 . 0 % ) * Subjects who were cleared or almost cleared of the designated clinical sign with at least a two grade improvement from baseline .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ULTRAVATE lotion , 0 . 05 % is white to off - white lotion .
It is supplied in an oval tapered white high - density polyethylene bottle with a white polypropylene disc cap .
Each bottle contains 60 mL ( 59 g ) of ULTRAVATE lotion .
NDC 10631 - 122 - 04 60 mL ( 59 g ) bottle • NDC 10631 - 122 - 51 120 mL ( 2 - 60 mL / 59 g bottles ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15ºC and 30ºC ( 59ºF to 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise patients using ULTRAVATE lotion of the following information and instructions : Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients to discontinue ULTRAVATE lotion when psoriasis is controlled .
ULTRAVATE lotion should not be used for longer than 2 weeks .
Advise patients to contact the physician if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks .
Inform patients that total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients to avoid bandaging , wrapping or otherwise occluding the treatment area ( s ) , unless directed by physician .
Advise patients to avoid use on the face , scalp , groin , or axillae [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Effects on Endocrine System ULTRAVATE lotion may cause HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients that use of ULTRAVATE lotion , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients to avoid use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions Inform patients that topical corticosteroids may cause local adverse reactions , some of which may be irreversible .
These reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids , including ULTRAVATE lotion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Breastfeeding women should not apply ULTRAVATE lotion directly to the nipple and areola to avoid directly exposing the infant [ see Lactation ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
ULTRAVATE is a trademark of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Manufactured by : Ferndale Laboratories , Inc . , Ferndale , MI 48220 Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . , Cranbury , NJ 08512 U . S . Patent 8 , 962 , 028 Revised : 08 / 2020 Ultravate Lotion 60 mL ( 59 g ) Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ultravate Lotion 120 mL ( 2 bottles of 60 mL / 59 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
