Rx Only Nystatin Cream , USP For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces nursei .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 47 H 75 NO 17 Molecular Weight : 926 . 13 Nystatin cream is for dermatologic use .
Each gram contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units in an aqueous , cream base consisting of purified water , emulsifying wax , mineral oil , propylene glycol , sorbitol solution , cetyl palmitate , sorbic acid and potassium sorbate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Tricophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin cream is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
This cream is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin cream is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin cream should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
2 .
Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
3 .
If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or the effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin cream .
It also is not known whether this cream can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin cream should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Geriatric Use Clinical studies with nystatin cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin cream is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General . )
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Crown Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 423 - 926 - 4413 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or https : / / www . fda . gov / Safety / MedWatch / DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Cream USP is a light yellow to yellow cream that is supplied in : 15 gram tube NDC 0316 - 0221 - 15 30 gram tube NDC 0316 - 0221 - 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Manufactured and Distributed by : Crown Laboratories , Inc . , Johnson City , TN 37604 Printed in USA P9526 . 00 15 gram tube NDC 0316 - 0221 - 15 Rx Only Nystatin Cream , USP 100 , 000 units per gram WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
15 grams Each gram contains : 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units in an aqueous , cream base consisting of purified water , emulsifying wax , mineral oil , propylene glycol , sorbitol solution , cetyl palmitate , sorbic acid and potassium sorbate .
TO OPEN : Use cap to puncture seal .
IMPORTANT : Do not use if seal has been punctured or is not visible .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Usual Dosage : Apply liberally to affected area twice daily .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
See crimp of tube for Lot Number and Expiration Date .
Manufactured and Distributed by : Crown Laboratories , Inc . , Johnson City , TN 37604 P9503 . 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 gram carton NDC 0316 - 0221 - 15 Rx Only Nystatin Cream , USP 100 , 000 units per gram WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
15 grams Each gram contains : 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units in an aqueous , cream base consisting of purified water , emulsifying wax , mineral oil , propylene glycol , sorbitol solution , cetyl palmitate , sorbic acid and potassium sorbate .
Directions for puncturing tube seal : Remove cap .
Turn cap upside down and place puncture tip onto tube seal .
Push cap down until seal is punctured .
Screw cap back on to close .
IMPORTANT : Do not use if seal has been punctured or is not visible .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Usual Dosage : Apply liberally to affected area twice daily .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
See end of carton for Lot Number and Expiration Date .
Manufactured and Distributed by : Crown Laboratories , Inc . , Johnson City , TN 37604 P9515 . 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
