USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , ramipril should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS : Fetal / neonatal morbidity and mortality .
DESCRIPTION Ramipril is a 2 - aza - bicyclo [ 3 . 3 . 0 ] - octane - 3 - carboxylic acid derivative .
It is a white , crystalline substance soluble in polar organic solvents and buffered aqueous solutions .
Ramipril melts between 105 ° C and 112 ° C . Ramipril ' s chemical name is ( 2 S , 3 aS , 6 aS ) - 1 [ ( S ) - N - [ ( S ) - 1 - Carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ] alanyl ] octahydrocyclopenta [ b ] pyrrole - 2 - carboxylic acid , 1 - ethyl ester ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empiric formula is C23H32N2O5 , and its molecular weight is 416 . 5 .
Ramiprilat , the diacid metabolite of ramipril , is a non - sulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor .
Ramipril is converted to ramiprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
Ramipril is supplied as hard shell capsules for oral administration containing 1 . 25 mg , 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg of ramipril .
The inactive ingredients present are pregelatinized starch NF , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The 1 . 25 mg capsule shell contains D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Yellow # 6 the 2 . 5 mg capsule shell contains D & C Red # 28 , D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Red # 40 , the 5 mg capsule shell contains D & C Red # 28 , D & C Red # 33 , D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Blue # 1 , and the 10 mg capsule shell contains D & C Red # 28 , and FD & C Blue # 1 .
Capsule shells are imprinted with ink containing Shellac and Black iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ramipril and ramiprilat inhibit angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated with ramipril alone for up to 56 weeks , approximately 4 % of patients during the trial had an abnormally high serum potassium and an increase from baseline greater than 0 . 75 mEq / L , and none of the patients had an abnormally low potassium and a decrease from baseline greater than 0 . 75 mEq / L .
In the same study , approximately 2 % of patients treated with ramipril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 56 weeks had abnormally high potassium values and an increase from baseline of 0 . 75 mEq / L or greater , and approximately 2 % had abnormally low values and decreases from baseline of 0 . 75 mEq / L or greater .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
The effect of ramipril on hypertension appears to result at least in part from inhibition of both tissue and circulating ACE activity , thereby reducing angiotensin II formation in tissue and plasma .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of ramipril remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which ramipril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , ramipril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although ramipril was antihypertensive in all races studied , black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to monotherapy than non - black patients .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following oral administration of ramipril , peak plasma concentrations of ramipril are reached within one hour .
The extent of absorption is at least 50 to 60 % and is not significantly influenced by the presence of food in the GI tract , although the rate of absorption is reduced .
In a trial in which subjects received ramipril capsules or the contents of identical capsules dissolved in water , dissolved in apple juice , or suspended in apple sauce , serum ramiprilat levels were essentially unrelated to the use or nonuse of the concomitant liquid or food .
Cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts ramipril to its active diacid metabolite , ramiprilat .
Peak plasma concentrations of ramiprilat are reached 2 to 4 hours after drug intake .
The serum protein binding of ramipril is about 73 % and that of ramiprilat about 56 % ; in vitro , these percentages are independent of concentration over the range of 0 . 01 to 10 mcg / mL .
Ramipril is almost completely metabolized to ramiprilat , which has about 6 times the ACE inhibitory activity of ramipril , and to the diketopiperazine ester , the diketopiperazine acid , and the glucuronides of ramipril and ramiprilat , all of which are inactive .
After oral administration of ramipril , about 60 % of the parent drug and its metabolites is eliminated in the urine , and about 40 % is found in the feces .
Drug recovered in the feces may represent both biliary excretion of metabolites and / or unabsorbed drug , however the proportion of a dose eliminated by the bile has not been determined .
Less than 2 % of the administered dose is recovered in urine as unchanged ramipril .
Blood concentrations of ramipril and ramiprilat increase with increased dose , but are not strictly dose - proportional .
The 24 - hour AUC for ramiprilat , however , is dose - proportional over the 2 . 5 to 20 mg dose range .
The absolute bioavailabilities of ramipril and ramiprilat were 28 % and 44 % , respectively , when 5 mg of oral ramipril was compared with the same dose of ramipril given intravenously .
Plasma concentrations of ramiprilat decline in a triphasic manner ( initial rapid decline , apparent elimination phase , terminal elimination phase ) .
The initial rapid decline , which represents distribution of the drug into a large peripheral compartment and subsequent binding to both plasma and tissue ACE , has a half - life of 2 to 4 hours .
Because of its potent binding to ACE and slow dissociation from the enzyme , ramiprilat shows two elimination phases .
The apparent elimination phase corresponds to the clearance of free ramiprilat and has a half - life of 9 to 18 hours .
The terminal elimination phase has a prolonged half - life ( > 50 hours ) and probably represents the binding / dissociation kinetics of the ramiprilat / ACE complex .
It does not contribute to the accumulation of the drug .
After multiple daily doses of ramipril 5 to 10 mg , the half - life of ramiprilat concentrations within the therapeutic range was 13 to 17 hours .
After once - daily dosing , steady - state plasma concentrations of ramiprilat are reached by the fourth dose .
Steady - state concentrations of ramiprilat are somewhat higher than those seen after the first dose of ramipril , especially at low doses ( 2 . 5 mg ) , but the difference is clinically insignificant .
In patients with creatinine clearance less than 40 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 , peak levels of ramiprilat are approximately doubled , and trough levels may be as much as quintupled .
In multiple - dose regimens , the total exposure to ramiprilat ( AUC ) in these patients is 3 to 4 times as large as it is in patients with normal renal function who receive similar doses .
The urinary excretion of ramipril , ramiprilat , and their metabolites is reduced in patients with impaired renal function .
Compared to normal subjects , patients with creatinine clearance less than 40 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 had higher peak and trough ramiprilat levels and slightly longer times to peak concentrations .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In patients with impaired liver function , the metabolism of ramipril to ramiprilat appears to be slowed , possibly because of diminished activity of hepatic esterases , and plasma ramipril levels in these patients are increased about 3 - fold .
Peak concentrations of ramiprilat in these patients , however , are not different from those seen in subjects with normal hepatic function , and the effect of a given dose of plasma ACE activity does not vary with hepatic function .
Pharmacodynamics Single doses of ramipril of 2 . 5 to 20 mg produce approximately 60 to 80 % inhibition of ACE activity 4 hours after dosing with approximately 40 to 60 % inhibition after 24 hours .
Multiple oral doses of ramipril of 2 . 0 mg or more cause plasma ACE activity to fall by more than 90 % 4 hours after dosing , with over 80 % inhibition of ACE activity remaining 24 hours after dosing .
The more prolonged effect of even small multiple doses presumably reflects saturation of ACE binding sites by ramiprilat and relatively slow release from those sites .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects Hypertension Administration of ramipril to patients with mild to moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt - and / or volume - depleted .
( See WARNINGS . )
Use of ramipril in combination with thiazide diuretics gives a blood pressure lowering effect greater than that seen with either agent alone .
In single - dose studies , doses of 5 to 20 mg of ramipril lowered blood pressure within 1 to 2 hours , with peak reductions achieved 3 to 6 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
In longer term ( 4 to 12 weeks ) controlled studies , once - daily doses of 2 . 5 to 10 mg were similar in their effect , lowering supine or standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures 24 hours after dosing by about 6 / 4 mm Hg more than placebo .
In comparisons of peak vs . trough effect , the trough effect represented about 50 to 60 % of the peak response .
In a titration study comparing divided ( bid ) vs . qd treatment , the divided regimen was superior , indicating that for some patients the antihypertensive effect with once - daily dosing is not adequately maintained .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In most trials , the antihypertensive effect of ramipril increased during the first several weeks of repeated measurements .
The antihypertensive effect of ramipril has been shown to continue during long - term therapy for at least 2 years .
Abrupt withdrawal of ramipril has not resulted in a rapid increase in blood pressure .
Ramipril has been compared with other ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers , and thiazide diuretics .
It was approximately as effective as other ACE inhibitors and as atenolol .
In both caucasians and blacks , hydrochlorothiazide ( 25 or 50 mg ) was significantly more effective than ramipril .
Except for thiazides , no formal interaction studies of ramipril with other antihypertensive agents have been carried out .
Limited experience in controlled and uncontrolled trials combining ramipril with a calcium channel blocker , a loop diuretic , or triple therapy ( beta - blocker , vasodilator , and a diuretic ) indicate no unusual drug - drug interactions .
Other ACE inhibitors have had less than additive effects with beta adrenergic blockers , presumably because both drugs lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin - angiotensin system .
Ramipril was less effective in blacks than in caucasians .
The effectiveness of ramipril was not influenced by age , sex , or weight .
In a baseline controlled study of 10 patients with mild essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a 15 % increase in renal blood flow .
In healthy volunteers , glomerular filtration rate was unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Ramipril is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics .
In using ramipril , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen - vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that ramipril does not have a similar risk .
( See WARNINGS . )
In considering use of ramipril , it should be noted that in controlled trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non - blacks .
In addition , ACE inhibitors ( for which adequate data are available ) cause a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients .
( see WARNINGS , Angioedema . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ramipril is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or any other angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor ( e . g . , a patient who has experienced angioedema during therapy with any other ACE inhibitor .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including ramipril ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , treatment with ramipril should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
When there is involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx , likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1 , 000 ( 0 . 3 mL to 0 . 5 mL ) ] should be promptly administered .
( SeeADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
In a large U . S . postmarketing study , angioedema ( defined as reports of angio , face , larynx , tongue , or throat edema ) was reported in 3 / 1523 ( 0 . 20 % ) of black patients and in 8 / 8680 ( 0 . 09 % ) of white patients .
These rates were not different statistically .
Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption ) .
Hypotension Ramipril can cause symptomatic hypotension , after either the initial dose or a later dose when the dosage has been increased .
Like other ACE inhibitors , ramipril has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume - and / or salt - depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy with ramipril .
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria or azotemia and , rarely , with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , ramipril therapy should be started under close medical supervision ; they should be followed closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of ramipril or diuretic is increased .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in a supine position and , if necessary , treated with intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Ramipril treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors , including ramipril , have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis As with other ACE inhibitors , rarely , a mild – in isolated cases severe – reduction in the red blood cell count and hemoglobin content , white blood cell or patelet count may develop .
In isolated cases , agranulocytosis , pancyotpenia , and bone marrow depression may occur .
Hematological reactions to ACE inhibitors are more likely to occur in patients with collagen vascular disease ( e . g . , systemic lupus erythematosus , scleroderma ) and renal impairment .
Monitoring of white blood cell counts should be considered in patients with collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality ACE inhibitors can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature .
When pregnancy is detected , ACE inhibitors should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of ACE inhibitors during the second and the third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resulting from decreased fetal renal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to the ACE - inhibitor exposure .
These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine ACE - inhibitor exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to ACE inhibitors only during the first trimester should be so informed .
Nonetheless , when patients become pregnant , physicians should make every effort to discontinue the use of ramipril as soon as possible .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to ACE inhibitors will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses , and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intraamniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , ramipril should be discontinued unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a non - stress test ( NST ) , or biophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to ACE inhibitors should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Ramipril which crosses the placenta can be removed from the neonatal circulation by these means , but limited experience has not shown that such removal is central to the treatment of these infants .
No teratogenic effects of ramipril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , rabbits , and cynomolgus monkeys .
On a body surface area basis , the doses used were up to approximately 400 times ( in rats and monkeys ) and 2 times ( in rabbits ) the recommended human dose .
PRECAUTIONS Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including ramipril , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine may occur .
Experience with another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor suggests that these increases are usually reversible upon discontinuation of ramipril and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent pre - existing renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when ramipril has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction of ramipril and / or discontinuation of the diuretic may be required .
Evaluation of the hypertensive patient should always include assessment of renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Hyperkalemia In clinical trials , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L ) occurred in approximately 1 % of hypertensive patients receiving ramipril .
In most cases , these were isolated values , which resolved despite continued therapy .
None of these patients was discontinued from the trials because of hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes , which should be used cautiously , if at all , with ramipril .
( See Drug Interactions . )
Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Impaired Liver Function Since ramipril is primarily metabolized by hepatic esterases to its active moiety , ramiprilat , patients with impaired liver function could develop markedly elevated plasma levels of ramipril .
No formal pharmacokinetic studies have been carried out in hypertensive patients with impaired liver function .
However , since the renin - angiotensin system may be activated in patients with severe liver cirrhosis and / or ascites , particular caution should be exercised in treating these patients .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , ramipril may block angiotensin II formation that would otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of second - and third - trimester exposure to ACE inhibitors , and they should also be told that these consequences do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine ACE - inhibitor exposure that has been limited to the first trimester .
These patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur with treatment with ACE inhibitors , especially following the first dose .
Patients should be so advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in breathing ) and to take no more drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Patients should be cautioned that light - headedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and it should be reported .
Patients should be told that if syncope occurs , ramipril should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake or excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Hyperkalemia : Patients should be told not to use salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Neutropenia : Patients should be told to promptly report any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Drug Interactions With nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents : Rarely , concomitant treatment with ACE inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents have been associated with worsening of renal failure and an increase in serum potassium .
With diuretics : Patients on diuretics , especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with ramipril .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with ramipril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with ramipril .
If this is not possible , the starting dose should be reduced .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
With potassium supplements and potassium - sparing diuretics : Ramipril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Therefore , if concomitant use of such agents is indicated , they should be given with caution , and the patient ' s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
With lithium : Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
These drugs should be coadministered with caution , and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If a diuretic is also used , the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased .
Other : Neither ramipril nor its metabolites have been found to interact with food , digoxin , antacid , furosemide , cimetidine , indomethacin , and simvastatin .
The combination of ramipril and propranolol showed no adverse effects on dynamic parameters ( blood pressure and heart rate ) .
The co - administration of ramipril and warfarin did not adversely affect the anticoagulant effects of the latter drug .
Additionally , co - administration of ramipril with phenprocoumon did not affect minimum phenprocoumon levels or interfere with the subjects ' state of anti - coagulation .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of a tumorigenic effect was found when ramipril was given by gavage to rats for up to 24 months at doses of up to 500 mg / kg / day or to mice for up to 18 months at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day .
( For either species , these doses are about 200 times the maximum recommended human dose when compared on the basis of body surface area . )
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria , the micronucleus test in mice , unscheduled DNA synthesis in a human cell line , or a forward gene - mutation assay in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line .
Several metabolites and degradation products of ramipril were also negative in the Ames test .
A study in rats with dosages as great as 500 mg / kg / day did not produce adverse effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Categories C ( first trimester ) and D ( second and third trimesters ) .
See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Nursing Mothers Ingestion of single 10 mg oral dose of ramipril resulted in undetectable amounts of ramipril and its metabolites in breast milk .
However , because multiple doses may produce low milk concentrations that are not predictable from single doses , women receiving ramipril should not breast feed .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received ramipril in US clinical studies of ramipril 11 . 0 % were 65 and over while 0 . 2 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
One pharmacokinetic study conducted in hospitalized elderly patients indicated that peak ramiprilat levels and area under the plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) for ramiprilat are higher in older patients .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Irreversible kidney damage has been observed in very young rats given a single dose of ramipril .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension Ramipril has been evaluated for safety in over 4 , 000 patients with hypertension ; of these , 1 , 230 patients were studied in US controlled trials , and 1 , 107 were studied in foreign controlled trials .
Almost 700 of these patients were treated for at least one year .
The overall incidence of reported adverse events was similar in ramipril and placebo patients .
The most frequent clinical side effects ( possibly or probably related to study drug ) reported by patients receiving ramipril in US placebo - controlled trials were : headache ( 5 . 4 % ) , “ dizziness ” ( 2 . 2 % ) and fatigue or asthenia ( 2 . 0 % ) , but only the last was more common in ramipril patients than in patients given placebo .
Generally , the side effects were mild and transient , and there was no relation to total dosage within the range of 1 . 25 to 20 mg .
Discontinuation of therapy because of a side effect was required in approximately 3 % of US patients treated with ramipril .
The most common reasons for discontinuation were : cough ( 1 . 0 % ) , “ dizziness ” ( 0 . 5 % ) , and impotence ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Of observed side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo - controlled trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with ramipril , only asthenia ( fatigue ) was more common on ramipril than placebo ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) .
PATIENTS IN US PLACEBO CONTROLLED STUDIES RAMIPRIL ( n = 651 ) Placebo ( n = 286 ) n % n % Asthenia ( Fatigue ) 13 2 2 1 In placebo - controlled trials , there was also an excess of upper respiratory infection and flu syndrome in the ramipril group , not attributed at that time to ramipril .
As these studies were carried out before the relationship of cough to ACE inhibitors was recognized , some of these events may represent ramipril - induced cough .
In a later 1 - year study , increased cough was seen in almost 12 % of ramipril patients , with about 4 % of patients requiring discontinuation of treatment .
Other adverse experiences reported in controlled clinical trials ( in less than 1 % of ramipril patients ) , or rarer events seen in postmarketing experience , include the following ( in some , a causal relationship to drug use is uncertain . )
: Body As a Whole : Anaphylactoid reactions .
( See WARNINGS . )
Cardiovascular : Symptomatic hypotension ( reported in 0 . 5 % of patients in US trials ) ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , syncope and palpitations .
Hematologic : Pancytopenia , hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia .
Renal : Some hypertensive patients with no apparent pre - existing renal disease have developed minor , usually transient , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine when taking ramipril , particularly when ramipril was given concomitantly with a diuretic .
( See WARNINGS . )
Acute renal failure .
Angioneurotic Edema : Angioneurotic edema has been reported in 0 . 3 % of patients in US clinical trials .
( See WARNINGS . )
Gastrointestinal : Hepatic failure , hepatitis , jaundice , pancreatitis , abdominal pain ( sometimes with enzyme changes suggesting pancreatitis ) , anorexia , constipation , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , dysphagia , gastroenteritis , increased salivation and taste disturbance .
Dermatologic : Apparent hypersensitivity reactions ( manifested by urticaria , pruritus , or rash , with or without fever ) , photosensitivity , purpura , onycholysis , pemphigus , pemphigoid , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Neurologic and Psychiatric : Anxiety , amnesia , convulsions , depression , hearing loss , insomnia , nervousness , neuralgia , neuropathy , paresthesia , somnolence , tinnitus , tremor , vertigo , and vision disturbances .
Miscellaneous : As with other ACE inhibitors , a symptom complex has been reported which may include a positive ANA , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , arthralgia / arthritis , myalgia , fever , vasculitis , eosinophilia , photosensitivity , rash and other dermatologic manifestations .
Additionally , as with other ACE inhibitors , eosinophilic pneumonitis has been reported .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Other : arthralgia , arthritis , dyspnea , edema , epistaxis , impotence , increased sweating , malaise , myalgia , and weight gain .
Post - Marketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , there have been rare reports of hypoglycemia reported during ramipril therapy when given to patients concomitantly taking oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin .
The casual relationship is unknown .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Creatinine and Blood Urea Nitrogen Increases in creatinine levels occurred in 1 . 2 % of patients receiving ramipril alone , and in 1 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril and a diuretic .
Increases in blood urea nitrogen levels occurred in 0 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril alone and in 3 % of patients receiving ramipril with a diuretic .
None of these increases required discontinuation of treatment .
Increases in these laboratory values are more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency or those pretreated with a diuretic and , based on experience with other ACE inhibitors , would be expected to be especially likely in patients with renal artery stenosis .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
Since ramipril decreases aldosterone secretion , elevation of serum potassium can occur .
Potassium supplements and potassium - sparing diuretics should be given with caution , and the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Decreases in hemoglobin or hematocrit ( a low value and a decrease of 5 g / dL or 5 % respectively ) were rare , occurring in 0 . 4 % of patients receiving ramipril alone and in 1 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril plus a diuretic .
No US patients discontinued treatment because of decreases in hemoglobin or hematocrit .
Other ( causal relationships unknown ) Clinically important changes in standard laboratory tests were rarely associated with ramipril administration .
Elevations of liver enzymes , serum bilirubin , uric acid , and blood glucose have been reported , as have cases of hyponatremia and scattered incidents of leukopenia , eosinophilia , and proteinuria .
In US trials , less than 0 . 2 % of patients discontinued treatment for laboratory abnormalities ; all of these were cases of proteinuria or abnormal liver - function tests .
OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses in rats and mice of 10 to 11 g / kg resulted in significant lethality .
In dogs , oral doses as high as 1 g / kg induced only mild gastrointestinal distress .
Limited data on human overdosage are available .
The most likely clinical manifestations would be symptoms attributable to hypotension .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of ramipril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of ramipril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of ramipril and its metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which , if any , of these substances can be usefully removed from the body by hemodialysis .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of ramipril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of ramipril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat ramipril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ramipril depend , in part , on the presence or absence of volume depletion ( e . g . , past and current diuretic use ) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis .
If such circumstances are suspected to be present , the initial starting dose should be 1 . 25 mg once daily .
Hypertension The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 2 . 5 mg once a day .
Dosage should be adjusted according to the blood pressure response .
The usual maintenance dosage range is 2 . 5 to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses .
In some patients treated once daily , the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval .
In such patients , an increase in dosage or twice daily administration should be considered .
If blood pressure is not controlled with ramipril alone , a diuretic can be added .
After the initial dose of ramipril , the patient should be observed under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
If possible , the dose of any concomitant diuretic should be reduced which may diminish the likelihood of hypotension .
The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug , following effective management of the hypotension .
The ramipril capsule is usually swallowed whole .
The ramipril capsule can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount ( about 4 oz . )
of apple sauce or mixed in 4 oz .
( 120 ml ) of water or apple juice .
To be sure that ramipril is not lost when such a mixture is used , the mixture should be consumed in its entirety .
The described mixtures can be pre - prepared and stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours under refrigeration .
Concomitant administration of ramipril with potassium supplements , potassium salt substitutes , or potassiumsparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of ramipril .
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued two to three days prior to beginning therapy with ramipril .
( See WARNINGS . )
Then , if blood pressure is not controlled with ramipril alone , diuretic therapy should be resumed .
If the diuretic cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 1 . 25 mg ramipril should be used to avoid excess hypotension .
Dosage Adjustment in Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( serum creatinine approximately > 2 . 5 mg / dL ) doses only 25 % of those normally used should be expected to induce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
Hypertension : For patients with hypertension and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1 . 25 mg ramipril once daily .
Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 5 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Ramipril Capsules are available as 1 . 25 mg , 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg in hard gelatin capsules .
Ramipril 1 . 25 mg capsules are hard gelatin capsules size “ 4 ” , yellow opaque body with yellow opaque cap imprinted with IG271 on cap and 1 . 25 mg on body in black ink , filled with white to off - white powder and supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 67787 - 271 - 01 ) and 1000 ( NDC 67787 - 271 - 10 ) .
Ramipril 2 . 5 mg capsules are hard gelatin capsules size “ 4 ” , orange opaque body with orange opaque cap imprinted with IG272 on cap and 2 . 5 mg on body in black ink , filled with white to off - white powder and supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 67787 - 272 - 01 ) and 1000 ( NDC 67787 - 272 - 10 ) .
Ramipril 5 mg capsules are hard gelatin capsules size “ 4 ” , red opaque body with red opaque cap imprinted with IG273 on cap and 5 mg on body in black ink , filled with white to off - white powder and supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 67787 - 273 - 01 ) and 1000 ( NDC 67787 - 273 - 10 ) .
Ramipril 10 mg capsules are hard gelatin capsules size “ 4 ” , blue opaque body with blue opaque cap imprinted with IG274 on cap and 10 mg on body in black ink , filled with white to off - white powder and supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 67787 - 274 - 01 ) and 1000 ( NDC 67787 - 274 - 10 ) .
Dispense in well - closed container with safety closure .
Store at controlled room temperature between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) ( See USP ) .
Manufactured by : InvaGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc Hauppauge NY 11788 .
