Active Ingredient Avobenzone 2 . 0 % , Homosalate 6 . 0 % , Octocrylene 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Flammable Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics .
Directions • Shake well • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in well - ventilated area • Reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , Caprylyl Glycol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Fragrance , Tocopheryl Acetate Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SafeSun , Mon - Fri Principal Display Panel BANANA BOAT ® NEW !
hair & scalp defense CLEAN SUNSCREEN SPRAY UVA / UVB BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 30 Lightweight Non - Greasy PROTECTION FOR HAIR & SCALP Wo n't Dry Out Hair Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) NET WT 6 OZ .
( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
