Drug Facts Active ingredient Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : wheezing / difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergy reaction occurs , stop use and seek madical help right away .
Do not use If you are allerigic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
If solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water Do not use routinely if you have wounds which invlove more than the superficial layers of the skin Stop use and ask doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allerigic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions use with care in premature infants or infants under two months of age .
These products may cuase irritation or chemical burns Healthcare personnel handwash : wet hands with water dispense 5 mL of product ( 6 full strokes ) into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Surgical hand scrub wet hands and forearms with water scrub for 3 minutes with 5 mL of product ( 6 full strokes ) , with a wet brush , paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and skin between the fingers a seperate nail cleaner may be used rinse thoroughly wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product ( 6 full strokes ) and rinse under running water and dry thoroughly Other information store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) avoid excessive heat above 40ºC ( 104ºF ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water NDC 21749 - 225 - 53 Purell FOAM HANDWASH Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution - Antiseptic Broad spectrum kill Gentle on hands 2 % CHG ANTIMICROBIAL FOAM Distributed by : GOJO Industries , Inc .
Akron , OH 44309 800 - 321 - 9647 • 330 - 255 - 6000 www . GOJO . com © 2019 .
GOJO Industries , Inc .
All rights reserved . , Made in U . S . A . Reorder 5742 - 06 GOJOBLUE18LBLB 5742 - 643 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
