Each film - coated tablet contains : Cyclobenzaprine Hydrichloride , USP 10 mg Usual Adult Dosage : See package outsert for dosage information This container is not intended for household use .
Dispense contents with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) and in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 to 25 C ( 68 to 77 F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 C ( 59 to 86 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
DESCRIPTION Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride , USP is a white , crystalline tricyclic amine salt with the empirical formula C20H21N - HCl and a molecular weight of 311 . 9 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cyclobenzaprine HCl relieves skeletal muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
It is ineffective in muscle spasm due to central nervous system disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute , painful muscoskeletal conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation .
WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome .
The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride when used in combination with other drugs , such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapimal , , or ( MAO ) inhibitors .
PRECAUTIONS General .
Because of its atropine - like action , cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should be sued with caution in patients with a history of urinary retention , angle - closure glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure and in patients taking anticholinergic medication .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Incidence of most common adverse reactions in the 2 double - blind , placebo controlled - 5 mg studies ( incidence of > 3 % on cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Pharmacologic similarities among the tricyclic drugs require that certain withdrawal symptoms be considered when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is administered , even though they have not been reported to occur with this drug .
Abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged administration rarely may produce nausea , headache and malaise .
These are not indicative of addiction .
OVERDOSAGE Although rare , deaths may occur from overdosage with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients , the recommended dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP is 5 mg three times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP 5 mg are supplied as butterscotch yellow - colored , capsule - shaped , film - coated convex tablets , debossed with " AN40 " on one side and plain on the other side .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
