Rx Only DESCRIPTION Adapalene gel 0 . 1 % , containing adapalene USP , is used for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
Each gram of adapalene gel 0 . 1 % contains adapalene USP 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) in a vehicle consisting of carbomer homopolymer , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
The chemical name of adapalene USP is 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid .
Adapalene USP is a white to off - white powder which is sparingly soluble in tetrahydrofuran , very slightly soluble in diethyl ether .
The molecular formula is C28H28O3 and molecular weight is 412 . 52 .
Adapalene USP is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Adapalene is a chemically stable , retinoid - like compound .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization , and inflammatory processes all of which represent important features in the pathology of acne vulgaris .
Mechanistically , adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to the cytosolic receptor protein .
Although the exact mode of action of adapalene is unknown , it is suggested that topical adapalene may normalize the differentiation of follicular epithelial cells resulting in decreased microcomedone formation .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption of adapalene through human skin is low .
Only trace amounts ( < 0 . 25 ng / mL ) of parent substance have been found in the plasma of acne patients following chronic topical application of adapalene in controlled clinical trials .
Excretion appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene gel , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Adapalene gel should not be administered to individuals who are hypersensitive to adapalene or any of the components in the vehicle gel .
WARNINGS Use of adapalene gel should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is noted .
Patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation occurs , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of adapalene .
Patients who normally experience high levels of sun exposure , and those with inherent sensitivity to sun , should be warned to exercise caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with adapalene .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous skin , or sunburned skin .
Certain cutaneous signs and symptoms such as erythema , dryness , scaling , burning , or pruritus may be experienced during treatment .
These are most likely to occur during the first two to four weeks and will usually lessen with continued use of the medication .
Depending upon the severity of adverse events , patients should be instructed to reduce the frequency of application or discontinue use .
Drug Interactions As adapalene gel has the potential to produce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid in combination with adapalene gel .
If these preparations have been used , it is advisable not to start therapy with adapalene gel until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene have been conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 3 , 0 . 9 , and 2 . 6 mg / kg / day and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day , approximately 4 - 75 times the maximal daily human topical dose .
In the oral study , positive linear trends were observed in the incidence of follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in the thyroid glands of female rats , and in the incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medullas of male rats .
No photocarcinogenicity studies were conducted .
Animal studies have shown an increased tumorigenic risk with the use of pharmacologically similar drugs ( e . g . , retinoids ) when exposed to UV irradiation in the laboratory or to sunlight .
Although the significance of these studies to human use is not clear , patients should be advised to avoid or minimize exposure to either sunlight or artificial UV irradiation sources .
In a series of in vivo and in vitro studies , adapalene did not exhibit mutagenic or genotoxic activities .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C No teratogenic effects were seen in rats at oral doses of adapalene 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 120 times the maximal daily human topical dose .
Cutaneous route teratology studies conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 6 , 2 . 0 , and 6 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 150 times the maximal daily human topical dose exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Adapalene should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when adapalene gel is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Some adverse effects such as erythema , scaling , dryness , pruritus , and burning will occur in 10 - 40 % of patients .
Pruritus or burning immediately after application also occurs in approximately 20 % of patients .
The following additional adverse experiences were reported in approximately 1 % or less of patients : skin irritation , burning / stinging , erythema , sunburn , and acne flares .
These are most commonly seen during the first month of therapy and decrease in frequency and severity thereafter .
All adverse effects with use of adapalene gel during clinical trials were reversible upon discontinuation of therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Adapalene gel is intended for cutaneous use only .
If the medication is applied excessively , no more rapid or better results will be obtained and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
The acute oral toxicity of adapalene gel in mice and rats is greater than 10 mL / kg .
Chronic ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of Vitamin A . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adapalene gel 0 . 1 % should be applied once a day to affected areas after washing in the evening before retiring .
A thin film of the gel should be applied , avoiding eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
During the early weeks of therapy , an apparent exacerbation of acne may occur .
This is due to the action of the medication on previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy .
Therapeutic results should be noticed after eight to twelve weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Adapalene gel , 0 . 1 % is supplied in the following size : 45 g laminate tube NDC 42546 - 720 - 45 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403 513 , India Manufactured for : PruGen Pharmaceuticals Scottsdale , AZ 85255 Questions ?
( 866 ) 696 - 8525 www . prugen . com June 2015 PE304260914 - 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 grams Tube Carton NDC 42546 - 720 - 45 Rx only PRUGEN ™ PHARMACEUTICALS ADAPALENE Gel 0 . 1 % 45 grams For External Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
