Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 15 mL ( TBSP ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 18 mg Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal Decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive .
• temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleeo • nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do Not Use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occurs • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistant cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • use enclosed dosage cup or tabelspoon ( TBSP ) • dose as follows or as directed by doctor .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 15 mL ( 1 TBSP ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 90 mL ( 6 TBSP ) in a 24 hour period Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 7 . 5 mL ( 1 / 2 TBSP ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 45 mL ( 3 TBSP ) in a 24 hour period Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other information • Each 15 mL ( TBSP ) contains Sodium 8 mg .
• store at 68 ° - 86 ° F ( 20 ° - 30 ° C ) Other ingredients citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , masking agent , propylene glycol , purified water , rasberry flavor , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate dihydrate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol .
Questions or Comments ?
• Call weekdays from 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 844 - 7294 .
You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 240 mL Bottle Label NDC 69367 - 184 - 08 Cough Cold / Congestion Dextromethorphan HBr Guaifenesin Phenylephrine HCl Each 15 mL ( TBSP ) contains : Dextromethorphan HBr 18 mg Guaifenesin 200 mg Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Cough Suppressant • Expectorant • Nasal Decongestant Rasberrry Flavor Alcohol Free / Sugar Free Gluten Free / Dye Free 8 fl .
oz .
( 240 mL ) Westminster Pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
