Warnings and Precautions • Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions ( 5 . 2 ) 05 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older .
Mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients ≥ 2 years of age .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Apply a thin film of mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % to the affected skin areas once daily .
Mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older .
Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age ; use in this age group is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Do not use mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Do not apply mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % in the diaper area if the patient still requires diapers or plastic pants , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing .
• Avoid contact with eyes .
Wash hands after each application .
• Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae .
• Mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once daily .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • • If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassess diagnosis .
( 2 ) • • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Cream , 0 . 1 % .
Each gram of Mometasone Furoate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains 1 mg of mometasone furoate , USP in a white to off - white , uniform and smooth cream .
• • Cream , 0 . 1 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation .
Mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment , Cushing ’ s syndrome , and hyperglycemia may occur due to systemic absorption .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • May increase the risk of cataracts and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System • Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of high - potency steroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure and young age .
• Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test .
• In a study evaluating the effects of mometasone furoate cream on the HPA axis , 15 grams were applied twice daily for 7 days to six adult subjects with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis .
The results show that the drug caused a slight lowering of adrenal corticosteroid secretion .
• If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
• Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions • Use of topical corticosteroids may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts and glaucoma have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical corticosteroids , including the topical mometasone products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Avoid contact of mometasone furoate cream with eyes .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis • If irritation develops , mometasone furoate cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections • If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of mometasone furoate cream should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are : burning , pruritus , and skin atrophy .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA at 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience • Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
• In controlled clinical trials involving 319 subjects , the incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of mometasone furoate cream was 1 . 6 % .
Reported reactions included burning , pruritus , and skin atrophy .
Reports of rosacea associated with the use of mometasone furoate cream have also been received .
In controlled clinical trials ( n = 74 ) involving pediatric subjects 2 to 12 years of age , the incidence of adverse experiences associated with the use of mometasone furoate cream was approximately 7 % .
Reported reactions included stinging , pruritus , and furunculosis .
• The following adverse reactions were reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with mometasone furoate cream during clinical trials in 4 % of 182 pediatric subjects 6 months to 2 years of age : decreased glucocorticoid levels , 2 ; paresthesia , 2 ; folliculitis , 1 ; moniliasis , 1 ; bacterial infection , 1 ; skin depigmentation , 1 .
The following signs of skin atrophy were also observed among 97 subjects treated with mometasone furoate cream in a clinical trial : shininess , 4 ; telangiectasia , 1 ; loss of elasticity , 4 ; loss of normal skin markings , 4 ; thinness , 1 ; and bruising , 1 .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience • Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Postmarketing reports for local adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids include irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae , and miliaria .
These adverse reactions may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
• Postmarketing reports for ophthalmic adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids include blurred vision , cataracts , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and central serous chorioretinopathy .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • No drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with mometasone furoate cream .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy • Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : • There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , mometasone furoate cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
• Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
• When administered to pregnant rats , rabbits , and mice , mometasone furoate increased fetal malformations .
The doses that produced malformations also decreased fetal growth , as measured by lower fetal weights and / or delayed ossification .
Mometasone furoate also caused dystocia and related complications when administered to rats during the end of pregnancy .
• In mice , mometasone furoate caused cleft palate at subcutaneous doses of 60 mcg / kg and above .
Fetal survival was reduced at 180 mcg / kg .
No toxicity was observed at 20 mcg / kg .
( Doses of 20 , 60 , and 180 mcg / kg in the mouse are approximately 0 . 01 , 0 . 02 , and 0 . 05 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis . )
• In rats , mometasone furoate produced umbilical hernias at topical doses of 600 mcg / kg and above . A dose of 300 mcg / kg produced delays in ossification , but no malformations .
( Doses of 300 and 600 mcg / kg in the rat are approximately 0 . 2 and 0 . 4 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis . )
• In rabbits , mometasone furoate caused multiple malformations ( e . g . , flexed front paws , gallbladder agenesis , umbilical hernia , hydrocephaly ) at topical doses of 150 mcg / kg and above ( approximately 0 . 2 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
In an oral study , mometasone furoate increased resorptions and caused cleft palate and / or head malformations ( hydrocephaly and domed head ) at 700 mcg / kg .
At 2800 mcg / kg most litters were aborted or resorbed .
No toxicity was observed at 140 mcg / kg .
( Doses of 140 , 700 , and 2800 mcg / kg in the rabbit are approximately 0 . 2 , 0 . 9 , and 3 . 6 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis . )
• When rats received subcutaneous doses of mometasone furoate throughout pregnancy or during the later stages of pregnancy , 15 mcg / kg caused prolonged and difficult labor and reduced the number of live births , birth weight , and early pup survival .
Similar effects were not observed at 7 . 5 mcg / kg .
( Doses of 7 . 5 and 15 mcg / kg in the rat are approximately 0 . 005 and 0 . 01 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis . )
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers • Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when mometasone furoate cream is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use • Mometasone furoate cream may be used with caution in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older , although the safety and efficacy of drug use for longer than 3 weeks have not been established .
Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age , its use in this age group is not recommended .
• In a pediatric trial , 24 atopic dermatitis subjects , of whom 19 subjects were age 2 to 12 years , were treated with mometasone furoate cream once daily .
The majority of subjects cleared within 3 weeks .
• Mometasone furoate cream caused HPA axis suppression in approximately 16 % of pediatric subjects ages 6 to 23 months , who showed normal adrenal function by Cortrosyn test before starting treatment , and were treated for approximately 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 41 % ( range 15 % to 94 % ) .
The criteria for suppression were : basal cortisol level of ≤ 5 mcg / dL , 30 - minute post - stimulation level of ≤ 18 mcg / dL , or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL .
Follow - up testing 2 to 4 weeks after trial completion , available for 5 of the subjects , demonstrated suppressed HPA axis function in 1 subject , using these same criteria .
Long - term use of topical corticosteroids has not been studied in this population [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
• Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to skin atrophy , including striae , when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients applying topical corticosteroids to greater than 20 % of body surface are at higher risk of HPA axis suppression .
• HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
• Mometasone furoate cream should not be used in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use • Clinical studies of mometasone furoate cream included 190 subjects who were 65 years of age and over and 39 subjects who were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE • Topically applied mometasone furoate cream can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION • Mometasone Furoate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains mometasone furoate , USP for topical use .
Mometasone furoate , USP is a synthetic corticosteroid with anti - inflammatory activity .
• Chemically , mometasone furoate , USP is 9α , 21 - dichloro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - ( 2 - furoate ) , with the empirical formula C27H30CI2O6 , a molecular weight of 521 . 43 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Mometasone furoate , USP is a white to off - white powder , soluble in acetone and methylene chloride .
• Each gram of Mometasone Furoate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains : 1 mg mometasone furoate , USP in a cream base of aluminum starch octenyl succinate ( Dry - Flo Pure ) , hexylene glycol , phosphoric acid , propylene glycol monostearate , purified water , stearyl alcohol and ceteareth - 20 , titanium dioxide , white petrolatum , and white wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action • Like other topical corticosteroids , mometasone furoate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics • Studies performed with mometasone furoate cream indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
• In a study evaluating the effects of mometasone furoate cream on the HPA axis , 15 grams were applied twice daily for 7 days to six adult subjects with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis .
The cream was applied without occlusion to at least 30 % of the body surface .
The results showed that the drug caused a slight lowering of adrenal corticosteroid secretion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Ninety - seven pediatric subjects ages 6 to 23 months with atopic dermatitis were enrolled in an open - label HPA axis safety study .
Mometasone furoate cream was applied once daily for approximately 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 41 % ( range 15 % to 94 % ) .
In approximately 16 % of subjects who showed normal adrenal function by Cortrosyn test before starting treatment , adrenal suppression was observed at the end of treatment with mometasone furoate cream .
The criteria for suppression were : basal cortisol level of ≤ 5 mcg / dL , 30 - minute post - stimulation level of ≤ 18 mcg / dL , or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL .
Follow - up testing 2 to 4 weeks after stopping treatment , available for 5 of the subjects , demonstrated suppressed HPA axis function in one subject , using these same criteria [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics • The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Studies in humans indicate that approximately 0 . 4 % of the applied dose of mometasone furoate cream enters the circulation after 8 hours of contact on normal skin without occlusion .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility • Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of mometasone furoate cream .
Long - term carcinogenicity studies of mometasone furoate were conducted by the inhalation route in rats and mice .
In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in Sprague Dawley rats , mometasone furoate demonstrated no statistically significant increase of tumors at inhalation doses up to 67 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 04 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
In a 19 - month carcinogenicity study in Swiss CD - 1 mice , mometasone furoate demonstrated no statistically significant increase in the incidence of tumors at inhalation doses up to 160 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
• Mometasone furoate increased chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , but did not increase chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell assay .
Mometasone furoate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or mouse lymphoma assay , and was not clastogenic in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , a rat bone marrow chromosomal aberration assay , or a mouse male germ - cell chromosomal aberration assay .
Mometasone furoate also did not induce unscheduled DNA synthesis in vivo in rat hepatocytes .
• In reproductive studies in rats , impairment of fertility was not produced in male or female rats by subcutaneous doses up to 15 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 01 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from mometasone furoate cream , on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES • The safety and efficacy of the mometasone furoate cream for the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses were evaluated in two randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials , one in psoriasis and one in atopic dermatitis .
A total 366 subjects ( 12 to 81 years of age ) , of whom 177 received mometasone furoate cream and 181 subjects received vehicle cream , were evaluated in these trials .
Mometasone furoate cream or the vehicle cream were applied once daily for 21 days .
• The two trials showed mometasone furoate cream is effective in the treatment of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 53002 - 8320 NDC : 53002 - 8320 - 1 15 g in a TUBE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
• Inform patients of the following : • • Use mometasone furoate cream as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• • Advise patients to report any visual symptoms to their healthcare providers .
• • Do not use mometasone furoate cream on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• • Do not use mometasone furoate cream for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• • Do not be bandage or otherwise cover or wrap the treated skin area so as to be occlusive , unless directed by the physician .
• • Report any signs of local adverse reactions to the physician .
• • Advise patients not to use mometasone furoate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Do not apply mometasone furoate cream in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing .
• • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
• • Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products with mometasone furoate cream without first consulting with the physician .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Village Kishanpura , Baddi Nalagarh Road District : Solan , Himachal Pradesh - 173205 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma . com / usa June 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information Mometasone Furoate ( moe - MET - a - sone - FYOOR - oh - ate ) Cream , 0 . 1 % Important information : Mometasone furoate cream is for use on skin only .
Do not use mometasone furoate cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is Mometasone furoate cream ?
• • Mometasone furoate cream is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) for the relief of redness , swelling , heat , pain ( inflammation ) and itching , caused by certain skin problems in people 2 years of age and older .
• • It is not known if mometasone furoate cream is safe and effective for use in children under 2 years of age .
• • Mometasone furoate cream should not be used in children under 2 years of age .
• • It is not known if mometasone furoate cream is safe and effective for use in children longer than 3 weeks .
Do not use mometasone furoate cream if you are allergic to mometasone furoate or any of the ingredients in mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in mometasone furoate cream .
Before using mometasone furoate cream , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • • have a skin infection at the site to be treated .
You may also need medicine to treat the skin infection .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if mometasone furoate cream will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if mometasone furoate cream passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take other corticosteroid medicines by mouth or use other products on your skin or scalp that contain corticosteroids .
How should I use mometasone furoate cream ?
• • Use mometasone furoate cream exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Apply a thin film of mometasone furoate cream to the affected skin area 1 time each day .
• • Tell your healthcare provider if the treated skin area does not get better after 2 weeks of treatment .
• • Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Mometasone furoate cream should not be used to treat diaper rash or redness .
Do not apply mometasone furoate cream in the diaper area if wearing diapers or plastic pants .
• • Avoid using mometasone furoate cream on the face , groin , or underarms ( armpits ) .
• • Wash your hands after applying mometasone furoate cream .
What are the possible side effects of mometasone furoate cream ?
Mometasone furoate cream may cause serious side effects , including : • • Mometasone furoate cream can pass through your skin .
Too much mometasone furoate cream passing through your skin can cause your adrenal glands to stop working properly .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check for adrenal gland problems .
• • Vision problems .
Topical corticosteroids may increase your chance of developing vision problems such as cataract and glaucoma .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop blurred vision or other vision problems during treatment with mometasone furoate cream .
• • Skin problems .
Skin problems may happen during treatment with mometasone furoate cream , including allergic reactions ( contact dermatitis ) and skin infections at the treatment site .
Stop using mometasone furoate cream and tell your healthcare provider if you develop any skin reactions such as pain , tenderness , swelling , or problems healing during treatment with mometasone furoate cream .
The most common side effects of mometasone furoate cream include burning , itching , and thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of mometasone furoate cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store mometasone furoate cream ?
• • Store mometasone furoate cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep mometasone furoate cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of mometasone furoate cream .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use mometasone furoate cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give mometasone furoate cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about mometasone furoate cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in mometasone furoate cream , 0 . 1 % ?
Active ingredient : mometasone furoate Inactive ingredients : aluminum starch octenyl succinate ( Dry - Flo Pure ) , hexylene glycol , phosphoric acid , propylene glycol monostearate , purified water , stearyl alcohol and ceteareth - 20 , titanium dioxide , white petrolatum , and white wax .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Village Kishanpura , Baddi Nalagarh Road District : Solan , Himachal Pradesh - 173205 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma . com / usa June 2018 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Mometasone Furoate 0 . 1 % Cream [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
