DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin is a stabilized sublingual compressed nitroglycerin tablet that contains 0 . 3 mg , 0 . 4 mg , or 0 . 6 mg nitroglycerin USP ; as well as calcium stearate powder , colloidal silicon dioxide , hydrogenated vegetable oil , lactose monohydrate , and pregelatinized starch .
Nitroglycerin , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilating agent .
The chemical name for nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 propanetriol trinitrate and the chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular weight : 227 . 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
Although venous effects predominate , nitroglycerin produces , in a dose - related manner , dilation of both arterial and venous beds .
Dilation of postcapillary vessels , including large veins , promotes peripheral pooling of blood , decreases venous return to the heart , and reduces left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( preload ) .
Nitroglycerin also produces arteriolar relaxation , thereby reducing peripheral vascular resistance and arterial pressure ( afterload ) , and dilates large epicardial coronary arteries ; however , the extent to which this latter effect contributes to the relief of exertional angina is unclear .
Therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin may reduce systolic , diastolic , and mean arterial blood pressure .
Effective coronary perfusion pressure is usually maintained , but can be compromised if blood pressure falls excessively , or increased heart rate decreases diastolic filling time .
Elevated central venous and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures , and pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance are also reduced by nitroglycerin therapy .
Heart rate is usually slightly increased , presumably due to a compensatory response to the fall in blood pressure .
Cardiac index may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Myocardial oxygen consumption or demand ( as measured by the pressure - rate product , tension - time index , and stroke - work index ) is decreased and a more favorable supply - demand ratio can be achieved .
Patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressures and increased systemic vascular resistance in association with a depressed cardiac index are likely to experience an improvement in cardiac index .
In contrast , when filling pressures and cardiac index are normal , cardiac index may be slightly reduced following nitroglycerin administration .
Mechanism of Action : Nitroglycerin forms free radical nitric oxide ( NO ) which activates guanylate cyclase , resulting in an increase of guanosine 3 ' 5 ' monophosphate ( cyclic GMP ) in smooth muscle and other tissues .
These events lead to dephosphorylation of myosin light chains , which regulate the contractile state in smooth muscle , and result in vasodilatation .
Pharmacodynamics : Consistent with the symptomatic relief of angina , digital plethysmography indicates that onset of the vasodilatory effect occurs approximately 1 to 3 minutes after sublingual nitroglycerin administration and reaches a maximum by 5 minutes postdose .
Effects persist for at least 25 minutes following nitroglycerin administration .
Pharmacokinetics and Drug Metabolism Absorption : Nitroglycerin is rapidly absorbed following sublingual administration of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
Mean peak nitroglycerin plasma concentrations occur at a mean time of approximately 6 to 7 minutes postdose ( Table 1 ) .
Maximum plasma nitroglycerin concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the plasma concentration - time curves ( AUC ) increase dose - proportionally following 0 . 3 to 0 . 6 mg nitroglycerin .
The absolute bioavailability of nitroglycerin from nitroglycerin sublingual tablets is approximately 40 % but tends to be variable due to factors influencing drug absorption , such as sublingual hydration and mucosal metabolism .
Table 1 Parameter Mean Nitroglycerin ( SD ) Values 2 x 0 . 3 mg Nitroglycerin Sublingual Tablets 1 x 0 . 6 mg Nitroglycerin Sublingual Tablets Cmax , ng / mL 2 . 3 ( 1 . 7 ) 2 . 1 ( 1 . 5 ) Tmax , min 6 . 4 ( 2 . 5 ) 7 . 2 ( 3 . 2 ) AUC ( 0 –∞ ) , min 14 . 9 ( 8 . 2 ) 14 . 9 ( 11 . 4 ) t ½ , min 2 . 8 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 . 6 ( 0 . 6 ) Distribution : The volume of distribution ( VArea ) of nitroglycerin following intravenous administration is 3 . 3 L / kg .
At plasma concentrations between 50 and 500 ng / mL , the binding of nitroglycerin to plasma proteins is approximately 60 % , while that of 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is 60 % and 30 % , respectively .
Metabolism : A liver reductase enzyme is of primary importance in the metabolism of nitroglycerin to glycerol di - and mononitrate metabolites and ultimately to glycerol and organic nitrate .
Known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
In addition to nitroglycerin , 2 major metabolites 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin , are found in plasma .
Mean peak 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin plasma concentrations occur at approximately 15 minutes postdose .
The elimination half - life of 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is 36 and 32 minutes , respectively .
The 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites have been reported to possess approximately 2 % and 10 % , respectively , of the pharmacological activity of nitroglycerin .
Higher plasma concentrations of the dinitro metabolites , along with their nearly 10 - fold longer elimination half - lives , may contribute significantly to the duration of pharmacologic effect .
Glycerol mononitrate metabolites of nitroglycerin are biologically inactive .
Elimination : Nitroglycerin plasma concentrations decrease rapidly , with a mean elimination half - life of 2 to 3 minutes .
Half - life values range from 1 . 5 to 7 . 5 minutes .
Clearance ( 13 . 6 L / min ) greatly exceeds hepatic blood flow .
Metabolism is the primary route of drug elimination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are indicated for the acute relief of an attack or acute prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
Sublingual nitroglycerin therapy is contraindicated in patients with early myocardial infarction , severe anemia , increased intracranial pressure , and those with a known hypersensitivity to nitroglycerin .
Administration of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are using a phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitor ( e . g . , sildenafil citrate , tadalafil , vardenafil hydrochloride ) since these compounds have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
WARNINGS The benefits of sublingual nitroglycerin in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use nitroglycerin in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used because of the possibility of hypotension and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General Only the smallest dose required for effective relief of the acute anginal attack should be used .
Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are intended for sublingual or buccal administration and should not be swallowed .
Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with small doses of nitroglycerin .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume - depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops , the effects of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is blunted .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance rarely occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Several clinical trials of nitroglycerin patches or infusions in patients with angina pectoris have evaluated regimens that incorporated a 10 - to 12 - hour nitrate free interval .
In some of these trials , an increase in the frequency of anginal attacks during the nitrate free interval was observed in a small number of patients .
In one trial , patients had decreased exercise tolerance at the end of the nitrate interval .
Hemodynamic rebound has been observed only rarely ; on the other hand , few studies were so designed that rebound , if it had occurred , would have been detected .
Nitrate tolerance as a result of sublingual nitroglycerin administration is probably possible , but only in patients who maintain high continuous nitrate levels for more than 10 or 12 hours daily .
Such use of sublingual nitroglycerin would entail administration of scores of tablets daily and is not recommended .
The drug should be discontinued if blurring of vision or drying of the mouth occurs .
Excessive dosage of nitroglycerin may produce severe headaches .
Information for Patients Nitroglycerin is a sublingual tablet and should not be chewed , crushed , or swallowed .
If possible , patients should sit down when taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets and should use caution when returning to a standing position .
This eliminates the possibility of falling due to lightheadedness or dizziness .
One tablet should be dissolved under the tongue or in the buccal pouch at the first sign of an acute anginal attack .
The dose may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes until relief is obtained .
If chest pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15 - minute period , or if the pain is different than is typically experienced , prompt medical attention is recommended .
Nitroglycerin may be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
Nitroglycerin may produce a burning or tingling sensation when administered sublingually ; however , the ability to produce a burning or tingling sensation should not be considered a reliable method for determining the potency of the tablets .
Headaches can sometimes accompany treatment with nitroglycerin .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches may be a marker of the activity of the drug .
Treatment with nitroglycerin may be associated with lightheadedness upon standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Nitroglycerin should be kept in the original glass container and must be tightly capped after each use to prevent loss of tablet potency .
Drug Interactions Concomitant use of nitroglycerin with soluble guanylate cyclasestimulators is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Concomitant use of nitrates and alcohol may cause hypotension .
The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of aspirin .
Intravenous administration of nitroglycerin decreases the thrombolytic effect of alteplase .
Therefore , caution should be observed in patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin during alteplase therapy .
Intravenous nitroglycerin reduces the anticoagulant effect of heparin and activated partial thromboplastin times ( APTT ) should be monitored in patients receiving heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin .
It is not known if this effect occurs following single sublingual nitroglycerin doses .
Tricyclic antidepressants ( amitriptyline , desipramine , doxepin , others ) and anticholinergic drugs may cause dry mouth and diminished salivary secretions .
This may make dissolution of sublingual nitroglycerin difficult .
Increasing salivation with chewing gum or artificial saliva products may prove useful in aiding dissolution of sublingual nitroglycerin .
Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first - pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability .
Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris .
Therefore , patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible .
Administration of nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients who are using PDE - 5 inhibitors ( e . g . , sildenafil citrate , tadalafil , vardenafil hydrochloride ) .
These compounds have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
A decrease in therapeutic effect of sublingual nitroglycerin may result from use of long - acting nitrates .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Nitrates may interfere with the Zlatkis - Zak color reaction , causing a false report of decreased serum cholesterol .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal carcinogenesis studies with sublingually administered nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Carcinogenicity potential of nitroglycerin was evaluated in rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years .
Rats developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in males was 48 % and in females was 33 % , compared to 0 % in untreated controls .
Incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs . 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of , nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was mutagenic in Ames tests performed in 2 different laboratories .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , PO , or in ex vivo cytogenetic tests in rat and dog cells .
In a 3 - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for 6 months prior to mating of the F0 generation , with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this 3 - generation study , there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
Pregnancy : Category B . Animal reproduction and teratogenicity studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
However , teratology studies conducted in rats and rabbits with topically applied nitroglycerin ointment at dosages up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively revealed no toxic effects on dams or fetuses .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of nitroglycerin in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of nitroglycerin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Headache that may be severe and persistent may occur immediately after use .
Vertigo , dizziness , weakness , palpitation , and other manifestations of postural hypotension may develop occasionally , particularly in erect , immobile patients .
Marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates ( manifested by nausea , vomiting , weakness , diaphoresis , pallor , and collapse ) may occur at therapeutic doses .
Syncope due to nitrate vasodilatation has been reported .
Flushing , drug rash , and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects : The effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the results of nitroglycerin ’ s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; tachycardia ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ’ s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Methemoglobinemia has been rarely reported in association with organic nitrates .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial PO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
If methemoglobinemia is present , intravenous administration of methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg of body weight , may be required .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet should be dissolved under the tongue or in the buccal pouch at the first sign of an acute anginal attack .
The dose may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes until relief is obtained .
If the pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15 - minute period , or if the pain is different than is typically experienced , prompt medical attention is recommended .
Nitroglycerin may be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
During administration the patient should rest , preferably in the sitting position .
No dosage adjustment is required in patients with renal failure .
HOW SUPPLIED Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are supplied in 1 strength 0 . 4 mg , in bottles containing 25 , 30 , 60 & 90 tablets each , with color - coded labels .
Bottle of 25 NDC 71205 - 225 - 25 Bottle of 30 NDC 71205 - 225 - 30 Bottle of 60 NDC 71205 - 225 - 60 Bottle of 90 NDC 71205 - 225 - 90 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx only Manufactured by : Ingenus Pharmaceuticals NJ , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 , USA Manufactured for : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc .
Princeton , New Jersey 08540 , USA Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Revised : 0217 PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Nitroglycerin Sublingual Tablets , USP ( nahy - truh - glis - er - in ) Read this information carefully before you start nitroglycerin sublingual tablets and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not replace talking with your doctor .
If you have any questions about nitroglycerin , ask your doctor .
Your doctor will know if nitroglycerin sublingual tablet is right for you .
What is nitroglycerin ?
Nitroglycerin is a type of medicine known as an organic nitrate and is a vasodilating agent .
It is used to treat a type of chest pain called angina .
What is Angina ?
Angina is a pain or discomfort that keeps coming back when part of your heart does not get enough blood .
Angina feels like a pressing or squeezing pain , usually in your chest under the breastbone .
Sometimes you can feel it in your shoulders , arms , neck , jaws , or back .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets can relieve this pain .
Who should not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets if you are allergic to organic nitrates ( like the active ingredient in nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ) .
You should not take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets if you have the following conditions : • 1 .
very recent heart attack • 2 .
severe anemia • 3 .
increased pressure in the head Do not take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets with drugs for erectile dysfunction , like VIAGRA ® ( sildenafil citrate ) , CIALIS ® ( tadalafil ) , or LEVITRA ® ( vardenafil hydrochloride ) , as this may lead to extreme lowering of your blood pressure .
Do not take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets if you take medicines called guanylate cyclase stimulators which include riociguat , a medicine that treats pulmonary arterial hypertension and chronic - thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension .
What should I tell my doctor before taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Before using nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , tell your doctor if : • 1 .
You are taking any medicines that are used to treat angina , heart failure , or an irregular heartbeat .
• 2 .
You are taking any medicines that reduce blood pressure .
• 3 .
You are taking any diuretics ( water pills ) .
• 4 .
You are taking medications to treat depression or psychiatric illness .
• 5 .
You are taking ergotamine or similar drugs for migraine headaches .
• 6 .
You are taking aspirin .
• 7 .
You are taking the blood thinner medicine heparin .
• 8 .
You are taking any medicines for erectile dysfunction .
• 9 .
You are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• 10 .
You are breastfeeding .
How should I take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
• 1 .
Do not chew , crush , or swallow nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
• 2 .
You should sit down when taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets and use caution when you stand up .
This eliminates the possibility of falling due to lightheadedness or dizziness .
• 3 .
One tablet should be dissolved under the tongue or in the oral cavity at the first sign of chest pain .
• 4 .
The dose may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes , until the chest pain is relieved .
• 5 .
If the pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15 - minute , period , or is different than you typically experience , call your doctor or seek emergency help .
• 6 .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may be used 5 to 10 minutes prior to activities that might cause chest pain .
• 7 .
You may feel a burning or tingling sensation in your mouth when you take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
What should I avoid while taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
• 1 .
Do not breastfeed .
It is not known if nitroglycerin will pass through your milk .
• 2 .
Do not consume alcohol while taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , as this can lower your blood pressure .
• 3 .
Do not start any new prescription or non - prescription medicines or supplements , unless you check with your doctor first .
What are the possible side effects of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Nitroglycerin may cause the following side effects : • 1 .
headache • 2 .
vertigo ( a major symptom of balance disorder ) • 3 .
dizziness • 4 .
weakness • 5 .
heart palpitations ( unusual awareness of the heartbeat ) • 6 .
low blood pressure upon rising from a seated position • 7 .
nausea and vomiting • 8 .
sweating • 9 .
paleness • 10 .
fainting • 11 .
flushing ( warm or red condition of your skin ) • 12 .
other skin reactions that may be severe Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may cause a false test result of decreased serum cholesterol .
Tell your doctor if you are concerned about any side effects you experience .
These are not all the possible side effects of nitroglycerin .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets should be kept in the original glass container and tightly capped after each use to prevent loss of tablet potency .
Store nitroglycerinsublingual tablets at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
General advice about nitroglycerin sublingual tablets Sometimes doctors will prescribe a medicine for a condition that is not included in the patient information leaflets .
Only use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets the way your doctor told you to .
Do not give nitroglycerin sublingual tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , or call Dr . Reddy ’ s Medical Information Department , at 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 .
To reorder additional Patient Package Inserts contact Dr . Reddy ’ s Customer Service at 1 - 866 - 733 - 3952 .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Ingenus Pharmaceuticals NJ , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 , USA Manufactured for : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Inc .
Princeton , New Jersey 08540 , USA Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Revised : 0217 0 . 4 mg : Container Label : 25 ' s [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
