ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredient ( In each tablet ) ZEA MAYS WHOLE ( Titrated Extract of Zea Mays L . Unsaponifiable Fraction ) … … … … … … 35 . 0 mg ( equal to 7 mg β - sitosterol ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Microcrystalline Cellulose , Corn Starch , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Povidone ( K - 30 ) , Kaolin , Magnesium Stearate PURPOSE Treatment for gingivitis and mild / moderate periodontitis WARNINGS Do not use ■ If you are hypersensitive to Zea Mays L . or any of the inactive ingredients in this drug ■ Ask a doctor of pharmacist before use if you are applicable to following conditions : 1 ) Azo pigments ; Use with caution in patients with hypersensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid or other prostaglandin synthase inhibitors . do .
2 ) Be careful as this drug may interfere with the absorption of cholesterol drugs .
3 ) Pregnant or likely to be pregnant .
Women who are pregnant or are breast - feeding ( the safety of administration during pregnancy has not been established , so pregnant or breast - feeding women who may be pregnant ) .
For women , it is administered only when it is judged that the therapeutic benefit outweighs the risk . )
4 ) This drug contains Yellow No . 4 ( Atrazine ) , Yellow No . 5 ( Sunset Yellow FCF ) .
Please , consult your doctor , dentist , or pharmacist before taking if you are hypersensitive or allergic any of the ingredients in this drug ■ In the following cases , stop taking this drug immediately and consult a doctor , dentist or pharmacist .
Whenever possible , carry this information with you .
1 ) May cause mild laxative effects .
2 ) If this drug is administered to a patient with asthma , chronic urticaria , or hypersensitivity to nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , it may cause hypersensitivity to the skin or respiratory system .
3 ) As a result of a clinical trial conducted on patients with periodontal disease to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this drug in Korea , taking this drug ( 3 times a day for 4 weeks , 2 tablets at a time , 4 weeks to 12 weeks ) The adverse reactions reported in 72 patients who took this drug 3 times a day , 1 tablet at a time , for a total of 12 weeks ) were as follows , regardless of the causal relationship .
Nasopharyngitis ( 2 cases ) , dental abscess ( pus ) , abdominal pain ( belly pain ) , tooth fracture , AST increase , ALT increase , glaucoma , hyperlipidemia , pain in limbs , tooth extraction ( extraction ) ( 1 case each ) .
4 ) If there is no improvement in symptoms even after taking it for more than 1 month .
■ Other precautions when taking this drug .
1 ) Be sure to follow the prescribed usage and dosage .
2 ) Do not take this drug continuously for a long time .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN NA Uses ■ Adjuvant treatment for gingivitis ■ Mild / moderate periodontitis after periodontal treatment Directions ■ Administration Adults : take orally .
In initial , take 2 tablets three times per day before meals ( on empty stomach ) .
For maintenance , take 1 tablet three times a day in empty before meals ( on empty stomach ) .
Appropriately increase or decrease amount of administration according to your age and symptoms .
Other Information ■ Storage at room temperature between 1 ~ 30 ℃ ( 33 . 8 ~ 86 . 0 ° F ) ■ Do not use if carton is opened ■ Do not use if foil inner seal is broken or missing ■ Keep out of reach of children ■ Store at a cool and dry place , away from direct sunlight and high temperature ■ Taking drugs out of their original containers and storing them in other containers may cause misuse or deterioration of drugs , therefore , put them in the original containers and keep them tightly closed .
QUESTIONS ■ Call + 82 - 080 - 6776 - 080 ■ Website : http : / / www . ckdpharm . com PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
