ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Glycerin 8 . 01 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Butylene glycol , Caprylyl glycol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Hydroxyehtyl acrylate / sodium acryloyl dimethyl taurate copolymer , Xanthan gum , Allontoin , Dipotassium glycyrrhizate , Triethanolamine , Disodium EDTA , Caulerpa lentillifera extract , Portulaca oleracea extract , Ficus carica ( Fig ) fruit extract , Punica granatum fruit extract , Morus alba fruit extract , Ginkgo biloba nut extract , Achillea millefolium extract , Arnica montana flower extract , Jasminum officinale ( Jasmine ) flower extract , Polyglutamic acid , Sodium hyaluronate , Beta glucan , Pentylene glycol PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Warnings : - If the following side effects occur , immediately discontinue use .
Before resuming use , consult a dermatologist as continual use may worsen symptoms .
① If red spots swelling , itching , irritation , or other discomforts occur after using the product .
② If the above symptoms occur on the applied area after exposure to direct sunlight .
- Do not use on open wounds or on areas of skin exhibiting signs of eczema or dermatitis .
- Storage and handling precautions .
① Keep product out of reach of infants and children .
② Do not store in places subject to high or cold temperatures or under exposure to direct sunlight .
③ Use care to avoid eye contact when using this product .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep product out of reach of infants and children .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications and usage : ① After cleansing , clear up skin texture with toner to heighten the effects .
② Take the mask out of its package , unfold , and place the sheet on the face .
③ Leave them for about 15 ~ 20 minutes and take them out slowly .
④ Let the skin absorb the remaining essence by gently patting the skin .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage and administration : Suggested use is 2 - 3 times a week .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
