Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 15 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 2 . 8 % Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measure ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum of SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially 10 a . m . - 2 a .
m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : ask a doctor Other Information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics and surfaces Inactive Ingredients Water , Acrylates Copolymer , Styrene / Acrylates Copolymer , Butyl Octyl Salicylate , Tapioca Starch , Neopentyl Glycol Diheptanoate , Silica , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Behenyl Alcohol , Caprylyl Glycol , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Napthalate , Polyester - 7 , Beeswax , Fragrance , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Hydroxide , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium Polyacrylate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Disodium EDTA Questions Satisfaction guaranteed - For questions or comments please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Walmart Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson and Johnson Corporation , m owner of the registered trademarks Neutrogena ® and Neutrogena Ultra Sheer ® PKTB - 41429 - WM01 Principal Display Panel equate TM beauty Compare to NEUTROGENA ® ULTRA SHEER ® DRY - TOUCH SUNSCREEN * heer Sunscreen LOTION SPF 70 Broad Spectrum SPF 70 UVA / UVB protection Dermatologist tested Water resistant up to 80 minutes Oil - free • Lightweight • Clean feel PARABEN FREE 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
