[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Meprobamate is a white powder with a characteristic odor and a bitter taste .
It is slightly soluble in water , freely soluble in acetone and alcohol , and sparingly soluble in ether .
The structural formula of meprobamate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C9H18N2O4 M . W . 218 . 25 Meprobamate Tablets USP 200 mg and 400 mg for oral administration contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and pregelatinised starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meprobamate is a carbamate derivative which has been shown in animal studies to have effects at multiple sites in the central nervous system including the thalamus and limbic system .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Meprobamate tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually do not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of meprobamate tablets in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute intermittent porphyria as well as allergic or idiosyncratic reactions to meprobamate or related compounds such as carisoprodol , mebutamate , tybamate , or carbromal .
WARNINGS Drug Dependence Physical dependence , psychological dependence , and abuse have occurred .
When chronic intoxication from prolonged use occurs , it usually involves ingestion of greater than recommended doses and is manifested by ataxia , slurred speech , and vertigo .
Therefore , careful supervision of dose and amounts prescribed is advised , as well as avoidance of prolonged administration , especially for alcoholics and other patients with a known propensity for taking excessive quantities of drugs .
Sudden withdrawal of the drug after prolonged and excessive use may precipitate recurrence of pre - existing symptoms such as anxiety , anorexia , insomnia , or withdrawal reactions such as vomiting , ataxia , tremors , muscle twitching , confusional states , hallucinosis , and rarely , convulsive seizures .
Such seizures are more likely to occur in persons with central nervous system damage or pre - existent or latent convulsive disorders .
Onset of withdrawal symptoms occurs usually within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of meprobamate ; symptoms usually cease within the next 12 to 48 hours .
When excessive dosage has continued for weeks or months , dosage should be reduced gradually over a period of one or two weeks rather than abruptly stopped .
Alternatively , a long - acting barbiturate may be substituted , then gradually withdrawn .
Potentially Hazardous Tasks Patients should be warned that meprobamate may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery .
Additive Effects Since the effects of meprobamate and alcohol or meprobamate and other CNS depressants or psychotropic drugs may be additive , appropriate caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these agents simultaneously .
Usage in Pregnancy and Lactation An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( meprobamate , chlordiazepoxide and diazepam ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Meprobamate passes the placental barrier .
It is present both in umbilical cord blood at or near maternal plasma levels and in breast milk of lactating mothers at concentrations two to four times that of maternal plasma .
When use of meprobamate is contemplated in breastfeeding patients , the drug ' s higher concentration in breast milk as compared to maternal plasma should be considered .
Usage in Children Meprobamate tablets should not be administered to children under age six , since there is a lack of documented evidence for safety and effectiveness in this age group .
PRECAUTIONS The lowest effective dose should be administered , particularly to elderly and / or debilitated patients , in order to preclude oversedation .
The possibility of suicide attempts should be considered and the least amount of drug feasible should be dispensed at any one time .
Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidney ; to avoid its excess accumulation , caution should be exercised in administration to patients with compromised liver or kidney function .
Meprobamate occasionally may precipitate seizures in epileptic patients .
GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of meprobamate tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System Drowsiness , ataxia , dizziness , slurred speech , headache , vertigo , weakness , paresthesias , impairment of visual accommodation , euphoria , overstimulation , paradoxical excitement , fast EEG activity .
Gastrointestinal Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea .
Cardiovascular Palpitation , tachycardia , various forms of arrhythmia , transient ECG changes , syncope ; also hypotensive crisis ( including one fatal case ) .
Allergic or Idiosyncratic Allergic or idiosyncratic reactions are usually seen within the period of the first to fourth dose in patients having had no previous contact with the drug .
Milder reactions are characterized by an itchy , urticarial , or erythematous maculopapular rash which may be generalized or confined to the groin .
Other reactions have included leukopenia , acute nonthrombocytopenic purpura , petechiae , ecchymoses , eosinophilia , peripheral edema , adenopathy , fever , fixed drug eruption with cross reaction to carisoprodol , and cross sensitivity between meprobamate / mebutamate and meprobamate / carbromal .
More severe hypersensitivity reactions , rarely reported , include hyperpyrexia , chills , angioneurotic edema , bronchospasm , oliguria and anuria .
Also , anaphylaxis , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis , stomatitis , proctitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and bullous dermatitis , including one fatal case of the latter following administration of meprobamate in combination with prednisolone .
In case of allergic or idiosyncratic reactions to meprobamate , discontinue the drug and initiate appropriate symptomatic therapy , which may include epinephrine , antihistamines , and in severe cases , corticosteroids .
In evaluating possible allergic reactions , also consider allergy to excipients .
Hematologic ( See alsoAllergic or Idiosyncratic . )
Agranulocytosis and aplastic anemia have been reported .
These cases rarely were fatal .
Rare cases of thrombocytopenic purpura have been reported .
Other Exacerbation of porphyric symptoms .
OVERDOSAGE Suicidal attempts with meprobamate have resulted in drowsiness , lethargy , stupor , ataxia , coma , shock , vasomotor , and respiratory collapse .
Some suicidal attempts have been fatal .
The following data on meprobamate tablets have been reported in the literature and from other sources .
These data are not expected to correlate with each case ( considering factors such as individual susceptibility and length of time from ingestion to treatment ) , but represent the usual ranges reported .
Acute simple overdose ( meprobamate alone ) : Death has been reported with ingestion of as little as 12 g meprobamate and survival with as much as 40 g . Blood Levels 0 . 5 - 2 mg % represents the usual blood level range of meprobamate after therapeutic doses .
The level may occasionally be as high as 3 mg % .
3 - 10 mg % usually corresponds to findings of mild to moderate symptoms of overdosage , such as stupor or light coma .
10 - 20 mg % usually corresponds to deeper coma , requiring more intensive treatment .
Some fatalities occur .
At levels greater than 20 mg % , more fatalities than survivals can be expected .
Acute combined overdose ( meprobamate with alcohol or other CNS depressants or psychotropic drugs ) : Since effects can be additive , a history of ingestion of a low dose of meprobamate plus any of these compounds ( or of a relative low blood or tissue level ) cannot be used as a prognostic indicator .
In cases where excessive doses have been taken , sleep ensues rapidly and blood pressure , pulse , and respiratory rates are reduced to basal levels .
Any drug remaining in the stomach should be removed and symptomatic therapy given .
Should respiration or blood pressure become compromised , respiratory assistance , central nervous system stimulants , and pressor agents should be administered cautiously as indicated .
Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidney .
Diuresis , osmotic ( mannitol ) diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , and hemodialysis have been used successfully .
Careful monitoring of urinary output is necessary and caution should be taken to avoid overhydration .
Relapse and death , after initial recovery , have been attributed to incomplete gastric emptying and delayed absorption .
Meprobamate can be measured in biological fluids by two methods : colorimetric ( Hoffman , A . J . and Ludwig , B . J . : J Amer Pharm Assn 48 : 740 , 1959 ) and gas chromatographic ( Douglas , J . F . et al : Anal Chem 39 : 956 , 1967 ) .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Meprobamate Tablets USP : The usual adult daily dosage is 1200 mg to 1600 mg , in three or four divided doses ; a daily dosage above 2400 mg is not recommended .
The usual daily dosage for children ages six to twelve years is 200 mg to 600 mg , in two or three divided doses .
Not recommended for children under age 6 ( see Usage in Children ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Meprobamate Tablets USP 200 mg are white to off white , round , biconvex , uncoated tablets debossed with “ L125 ” on one side and break line on other side .
NDC 46708 - 019 - 30 Bottle of 30 NDC 46708 - 019 - 71 Bottle of 100 NDC 46708 - 019 - 91 Bottle of 1000 Meprobamate Tablets USP 400 mg are white to off white , round , biconvex , uncoated tablets debossed with “ L105 ” on one side and break line on other side .
NDC 46708 - 020 - 30 Bottle of 30 NDC 46708 - 020 - 71 Bottle of 100 NDC 46708 - 020 - 91 Bottle of 1000 Dispense in well - closed container with child - resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature , excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Preserve in well closed container .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited ( Formulation Division ) , Village Panelav , P . O . Tajpura , Near Baska , Taluka - Halol , Panchmahal , Gujarat , India .
Revision Date : 07 / 2013 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Meprobamate Tablets USP , 200 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 HDPE Bottle ) Each uncoated tablet contains : Meprobamate , USP .......... 200 mg 46708 - 019 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Meprobamate Tablets USP , 400 mg ( 30 Tablets in 1 HDPE Bottle ) Each uncoated tablet contains : Meprobamate , USP .......... 400 mg 46708 - 020 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
