4R3332E , 4R3327E Fresenius Kabi Fenwal Blood - Pack Units Rx only Using Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) with an Integral Sepacell RS - 2000 Whole Blood Leukocyte Reduction Filter and Fenwal HighFlo Needle Contains Fenwal Express System and Sample Diversion System for the collection of whole blood samples for laboratory testing .
Also contains empty Transfer Pack containers for blood component aliquots .
Integral filter unit intended for leukocyte reduction of Whole Blood up to 8 hours after blood collection when Whole Blood is stored at ambient temperatures or up to 72 hours after blood collection when Whole Blood is refrigerated .
The leukocyte reduced blood products may then be stored for the maximum allowable dating period .
Instructions for Use Collection Procedure : Use aseptic technique .
Notes : • • If Sample Diversion System is not used , donor samples may be collected using an alternate method following standard procedures .
• • Nominal tubing dimensions of product are 0 . 118 " inner diameter x 0 . 025 " wall thickness .
Precautions : • • Upon removal of Blood - Pack unit from the clear plastic overwrap , visually inspect the unit .
• • Do not use the product if the in - line cannula is broken and / or anticoagulant is present in the sample pouch or in the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle ( see Figure 1 ) .
Note that condensation in the empty tubing of the Blood - Pack unit is expected as a result of the sterilization process .
• • Do not use unless the solutions are clear .
1 .
Identify Blood - Pack unit using appropriate donor identification system .
2 .
Donor scale • • Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight .
• • Position primary container on the donor scale as far as possible below donor arm .
3 .
Clamp donor tubing between the HighFlo1 needle and Y - junction with a clamp .
( This step can be performed prior to step 1 or 2 . )
4 .
Visually inspect the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle , as well as the sample pouch to reconfirm that there is no anticoagulant present .
Note : Ensure that the sample pouch remains below the donor ’ s arm .
5 .
Following blood center procedures , apply pressure to donor ’ s arm and disinfect site of venipuncture .
6 .
Remove needle cover per instructions below : • • Holding the hub and cover near the tamper - evident seal , twist cover and hub in opposite directions to break seal .
• • Remove needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
7 .
Following blood center procedures , perform venipuncture , appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing and release clamp .
8 .
When good blood flow is established , stabilize the front of the needle guard to arm with tape .
( see Figure 2 ) 9 .
Allow the sample pouch to fill with blood according to center procedure .
Monitor blood flow into sample pouch .
Notes : • • The sample pouch contains an average fill volume of approximately 53 mL with a maximum fill volume of approximately 60 mL when filled to capacity .
• • If less blood sample volume is required , the flow to the sample pouch may be stopped prior to completely filling the pouch .
For example , in order to target a fill volume of approximately 40 mL , fill to the level indicated by the arrows in Figure 1 .
Ensure the pouch is hanging vertically .
• • The tube leading from the Y - junction to the sample pouch contains an additional volume of approximately 2 mL .
Precautions : • • Do not elevate or squeeze the sample pouch as this could cause blood to backflow from the sample pouch into the collection system .
• • Once the sample pouch is filled to desired volume , complete steps 10 - 18 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing and / or sample pouch .
10 .
Close the blue clamp on tubing between the Y - junction and the sample pouch .
11 .
Break the in - line cannula below the Y - junction in the donor tubing to the primary container allowing blood collection to proceed .
To completely break the in - line cannula , grasp with both hands .
Snap it at a 90 ° angle in one direction , and then bend it at a 90 ° angle in the opposite direction .
Ensure the in - line cannula is completely broken and that the blood flows freely to the primary container .
Precaution : Failure to break the in - line cannula completely may result in restricted blood flow .
12 .
Mix blood and anticoagulant in the primary container immediately , at several intervals during collection , and immediately after collection .
13 .
Following blood center procedures , hermetically seal the tubing between the sampling site and the Y - junction to maintain sterility of the blood collection system prior to removing blood samples .
Warning : • • Do not proceed with the remaining steps until the tubing leading to the sample pouch is hermetically sealed between the sampling site and the Y - junction .
To maintain the whole blood collection container as a closed system , the tubing between the sample pouch and Y - junction must be hermetically sealed prior to inserting the access device into the sampling site .
Failure to do so may lead to contamination of the whole blood collection .
14 .
To collect samples , insert the access device by pushing firmly into the sampling site until the membrane seal is penetrated .
Note : If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon insertion to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
15 .
Open the cap on the access device ( if applicable ) .
Hold access device so that the sample pouch hangs down .
16 .
Directly align the vacuum sample tube with the internal needle in the access device .
Insert vacuum sample tube into device .
17 .
Allow vacuum sample tube to fill with blood then remove from the access device .
18 .
Repeat steps 16 and 17 until the desired number of vacuum sample tubes have been filled .
Notes : • • If the access device needs to be replaced , clamp the tubing between the sampling site and the sample pouch .
Then , grasp base of sampling site with one hand and pull the access device out with the other hand .
Firmly insert the new access device .
Remove clamp and continue sampling .
• • If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon removal to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
• • The access device can only be replaced one time .
Precaution : When replacing access device , be careful to avoid contact with any blood droplets on the Luer or sampling site .
Discard used access device appropriately .
19 .
Collect the appropriate volume based on Blood - Pack unit used .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on Blood - Pack unit ± 10 % .
Precaution : Once the desired blood volume is collected , complete steps 20 - 24 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing .
20 .
Release pressure on the donor ’ s arm .
If appropriate , apply clamp to donor tubing between the needle and the Y - junction .
21 .
Hermetically seal donor tubing between the in - line cannula and the primary container .
22 .
Withdrawal of Needle ( see Figure 3 ) Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
a ) Place folded sterile gauze over puncture site and hold in place with finger tip without exerting pressure .
b ) Hold sides of needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the hub back smoothly until the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
c ) Confirm the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
23 .
Remove and discard the Sample Diversion System and needle in needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following established procedures .
If the donor tubing is also to be discarded , hermetically seal donor tubing directly above the primary container and remove .
Note : Step 24 may be performed prior to step 23 if desired .
24 .
If the donor tubing is not sealed directly above the primary container , then strip the blood from the remaining donor tubing into the primary container .
Mix and allow the tubing to refill ; repeat once .
Filtration Procedure : Precaution : Whole blood collected from certain donors may have extended filtration times and the potential for ineffective filtration and leukoreduction .
Note : The time of Whole Blood filtration may vary depending on processing option selected .
• a ) Within 8 hours of collection if Whole Blood is held at ambient temperature .
• b ) Within 72 hours of collection if Whole Blood is refrigerated following collection .
25 .
Mix unfiltered Whole Blood thoroughly .
Invert the primary container and hang thefilter set such that the filter remains vertical .
To achieve maximum flow rate , allow set to hang to full length .
Note : The filtered Whole Blood container must remain below the level of the filter during filtration .
For proper air expression to occur , ensure the filtered Whole Blood container is vertical .
26 .
Inspect all tubing to insure it hangs freely without kinks .
Install and close clamp on bypass line .
27 .
Break the in - line cannula above the filter to start filtration .
To completely break the in - line cannula , grasp with both hands .
Snap it at a 90 ° angle in one direction , and then bend it at a 90 ° angle in the opposite direction .
Allow filtration to continue until flow stops .
Note : Manual or mechanical pressure should not be used to increase the flow rate through the filter .
Note : Tubing below the filter should not be stripped at any time during the filtration process .
Note : If the filtration of Whole Blood is initiated at ambient temperature and not completed within 8 hours after blood collection , then filtration should be completed between 1 and 6 ° C . Note : If recovery of residual blood in the primary container is desired , install and close a clamp on the segment line prior to removing the clamp on the bypass line .
The segment line clamp can then be removed after step 28 .
28 .
Open the clamp on the bypass line and allow air to transfer from the filtered Whole Blood container to the primary container .
Note : If desired , gently squeeze the filtered Whole Blood container to transfer remaining air through the bypass line .
29 .
Allow filtration to continue until the inlet side of the filter is filled with air .
30 .
Hermetically seal and separate the bypass line above the filtered Whole Blood container .
Also hermetically seal and separate the segment line tubing directly above the top donor segment number .
Use care to avoid fluid splatter .
Discard filter and primary container appropriately .
31 .
Make donor segments .
Leave segments attached to the filtered Whole Blood container .
Component Preparation Procedure : Note : Platelet concentrates are not intended to be made with this product .
32 .
At the appropriate time , prepare the Blood - Pack unit for centrifugation by thoroughly mixing the primary container end over end , then load the unit in a centrifuge cup per the instructions on page 3 .
33 .
Following centrifugation , remove containers from the centrifugation cup taking care not to disturb the red blood cell / plasma interface .
34 .
Place filtered Whole Blood container in plasma extractor .
Clamp tubing to Transfer Pack containers that are not to be filled with plasma .
Express plasma into empty Transfer Pack container ( s ) by releasing pressure plate and breaking cannula at the top of filtered Whole Blood container .
35 .
When the desired amount of plasma has been removed , clamp the tubing leading to the plasma container ( s ) .
Hermetically seal and separate transfer tubing ( s ) being careful to avoid fluid splatter .
Detach filled containers as desired .
Note : If component aliquots are to be made at a later time , do not seal tubing between the filled container ( s ) and empty transfer packs .
Leave tubing between containers clamped to prevent inadvertent fluid transfer .
If desired , remove clamp ( s ) and transfer portions of the blood components into empty Transfer Pack container ( s ) .
Hermetically seal and separate transfer tubing ( s ) being careful to avoid fluid splatter .
Detach filled containers as desired .
36 .
Label each blood component following blood center procedures .
37 .
For further processing of blood components with multiple Blood - Pack units , use standard component processing and storage techniques .
Note : Fresh Frozen Plasma should be separated from the Red Blood Cells and placed in the freezer at - 18 ° C or colder within 8 hours after blood collection .
38 .
Store suspended CPDA - 1 Whole Blood / Red Blood Cells , Leukocytes Reduced between 1 and 6 ° C . 39 .
Infuse CPDA - 1 Whole Blood / Red Blood Cells , Leukocytes Reduced within 35 days of collection .
Warning : Failure to achieve closed system processing conditions negates the extended storage claim and the red blood cell product must be transfused within 24 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Definition of “ Controlled Room Temperature ” : “ A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
Provided the mean kinetic temperature remains in the allowed range , transient spikes up to 40 ° C are permitted as long as they do not exceed 24 hours ... The mean kinetic temperature is a calculated value that may be used as an isothermal storage temperature that simulates the non isothermal effects of storage temperature variations . ”
Reference : United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc . 12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD .
1 Van der Meer , P . F . , & de Korte , D . “ Increase of blood donation speed by optimizing the needle - to - tubing connection : an application of donation software . ”
Vox Sanguinis 2009 , 97 : 21 - 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sorvall is a trademark of Thermo Fisher Scientific LLC .
Sepacell is a trademark of Asahi Kasei Medical Co . , Ltd .
© 2019 Fresenius Kabi AG .
All rights reserved 47 - 23 - 13 - 836 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL Code 4R3332E 10 Units Fresenius Kabi Fenwal Blood - Pack Units Quadruple Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) Blood - Pack Unit ; Integral Sepacell RS - 2000 Whole Blood Leukocyte Reduction Filter For Collection and Processing of 500 mL Blood Fenwal Express System , Sample Diversion System , 16 ga .
Ultra Thin Wall HighFLo Needle , and three empty 400 mL Transfer - Pack containers for blood component aliquots .
Rx only Each unit consists of a PL 146 Plastic primary container with 70 mL of CPDA - 1 solution containing 2 . 23 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 1 . 84 g Sodium Citrate ( dihydrate ) USP , 209 mg Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) USP , 155 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( monohydrate ) USP and 19 . 3 mg Adenine USP , pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide ; an integral RS - 2000 filter with one empty 450 mL container for red cell storage and three empty 400 mL Transfer - Pack containers .
Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path See instructions for use .
Single use only .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature ( refer to direction insert ) .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
• • Open pouch by tearing across at notch .
• • Direct handling of product surfaces prior to extended storage in the foil pouch , may result in mold growth .
• • Unused units in open foil pouch may be kept up to 60 days by folding and securing open end of foil pouch to prevent possible loss of moisture , provided : • I ) Units are not removed from foil pouch , or • II ) Unused units removed from foil pouch are returned to the foil pouch within 12 hours .
Units may be removed from the pouch and returned only once .
• • Units removed from the foil pouch ( that are not returned to the pouch within 12 hours ) must be used within 4 days ( 96 hours ) .
Units out of the foil pouch for longer than 96 hours must be discarded .
Sepacell is a trademark of Asahi Kasei Medical Co . , Ltd .
Manufacturer Fresenius Kabi AG 61346 Bad Homburg / Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com Made in US 47 - 28 - 13 - 844 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
