Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine 20 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain • • kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • read the directions and warnings before use • • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• • store at 20 ˚ - 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ - 77 ˚ F ) • • protect from moisture Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C blue # 1 aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose ( monohydrate ) , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , modified food starch , natural and artificial flavor , sucralose , titanium dioxide , triacetin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Package / Label Principal Display Panel CVS Health ® Compare to the active ingredient in Maximum Strength Pepcid ® AC MAXIMUM STRENGTH Acid Reducer FAMOTIDINE TABLETS 20 mg Acid reducer Just one tablet prevents & relieves heartburn due to acid indigestion Releases a cooling sensation in mouth & throat Actual Size Cool Mint Flavor 25 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
