DESCRIPTION Hydroxyzine hydrochloride has the chemical name of 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - Chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] ethoxy ] ethanol dihydrochloride .
C21H27CIN2O2 • 2 HCl M . W . 447 . 83 Hydroxyzine hydrochloride occurs as a white , odorless powder which is very soluble in water .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 10 mg , 25 mg or 50 mg hydroxyzine hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients include carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 3350 , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyvinyl alcohol - part .
hydrolyzed , talc and titanium dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydroxyzine hydrochloride is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate or the benzodiazepines .
Hydroxyzine is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydroxyzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
Hydroxyzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydroxyzine ’ s clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
CLINICAL STUDIES INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia , hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long term use , that is more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxyzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
Hydroxyzine is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydroxyzine their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydroxyzine .
Patients should also be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effects of alcohol may be increased .
GERIATRIC USE SECTION A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydroxyzine included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydroxyzine has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydroxyzine and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydroxyzine hydrochloride are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Anticholinergic Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of dose .
Involuntary motor activity including rare instances of tremor and convulsions have been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of hydroxyzine overdosage is hypersedation .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and levarterenol or metaraminol .
Do not use epinephrine as hydroxyzine counteracts its pressor action .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydroxyzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydroxyzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : Adults , 50 to100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; children over 6 years , 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses and in histamine - mediated pruritus : adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; children over 6 years , 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 to 100 mg for adults and 0 . 6 mg / kg of body weight in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all potent medication , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyzine hydrochloride tablets , USP are available as follows : Hydroxyzine hydrochloride tablets , USP 10 mg are supplied as white , round , film coated , biconvex tablets debossed “ K10 ” on one side and plain on the other sid in bottles of 100 .
NDC 0904 - 0357 - 60 .
Hydroxyzine hydrochloride tablets , USP 25 mg are supplied as white , round , film coated , biconvex tablets debossed “ K11 ” on one side and plain on the other side in bottles of 100 , NDC 0904 - 0358 - 60 .
Bottles of 1000 , NDC 0904 - 0358 - 80 .
Hydroxyzine hydrochloride tablets , USP 50 mg are supplied as white , round , film coated , biconvex tablets debossed “ K12 ” on one side and plain on the other side in bottles of 100 .
NDC 0904 - 0359 - 60 .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 o to 25 oC with excursions permitted between 15 o to 30 oC ( 59 o to 86 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0904 - 0357 - 60 HydrOXYzine HCL Tablets , USP 10 mg Rx Only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0904 - 0358 - 60 HydrOXYzine HCL Tablets , USP 25 mg Rx Only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0904 - 0359 - 60 HydrOXYzine HCL Tablets , USP 50 mg Rx Only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
