Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Each mL of SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide , USP in a formulation containing Citric acid , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Methylparaben , PEG - 6 Caprylic / Capric Glycerides , PEG - 60 Almond Glycerides , PEG - 150 Pentaerythrityl Tetrastearate , Polysorbate 60 , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Water , Xanthan Gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is C 8 H 9 N 2 NaO 3 S · H 2 O with molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically , it is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium sulfacetamide is an odorless , white , crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , while practically insoluble in benzene , in chloroform and in ether .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth , by its competition with para - aminobenzoic acid .
There is no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic absorption of SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL when applied to the skin or scalp .
However , significant absorption of sodium sulfacetamide through the skin has been reported .
The following in vitro data is available but the clinical significance is unknown .
Organisms that show susceptibility to sodium sulfacetamide are : Streptococci , Staphylococci , E . coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas pyocyanea , Salmonella species , Proteus vulgaris , Nocardia and Actinomyces .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses : seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca ( dandruff ) .
It also is indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS : Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug - induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
General : Nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi , may proliferate with the use of this preparation .
Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration , and cross hypersensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
If SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL produces signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions , discontinue use of the preparation .
Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large , infected , abraded , denuded or severely burned areas .
Under these circumstances , any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could potentially occur , and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL if the condition becomes worse , or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis , fever or sores in the mouth develop .
Drug Interactions : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL is incompatible with silver preparations .
Pharmacology : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL has a bacteriostatic effect against Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Chromosomal nondisjunction has been reported in the yeast , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , following application of sodium sulfacetamide .
The significance of this finding to the topical use of sodium sulfacetamide in the human is unknown .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL .
It is also not known whether SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon .
The following adverse reactions , reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide , are noteworthy : instances of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus ; in one case a fatal outcome was reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
OVERDOSAGE : The oral LD50 of sulfacetamide in mice is 16 . 5 g / kg .
In the event of overdosage , emergency treatment should be started immediately .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manifestations : Overdosage may cause nausea and vomiting .
Large oral overdosage may cause hematuria , crystalluria and renal shutdown due to the precipitation of sulfa crystals in the renal tubules and the urinary tract .
For treatment , contact your local Poison Control Center or your doctor .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca - Wash affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly , pat dry and repeat after 10 to 20 seconds .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described for 8 to 10 days .
lf skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently .
Regular shampooing following SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL is not necessary , but the hair should be shampooed at least once a week .
As the condition subsides , the interval between applications may be lengthened .
Applications once or twice weekly or every other week may prevent recurrence .
Should the condition recur after stopping therapy , the application of SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL should be reinitiated as at the beginning of treatment .
Secondary cutaneous bacterial infections - Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described for 8 to 10 days .
If skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % CLEANSING GEL is available in a 12 fl .
oz .
( 355 mL ) bottle , NDC 42192 - 146 - 12 .
Store at 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºF to 77ºF ) , excursions permitted between 15ºC and 30ºC ( 59ºF and 86ºF ) .
[ See USP , “ Controlled Room Temperature . ” ]
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Note : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep container or packet tightly closed .
A slight yellowish discoloration may occur on occasion when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration is easily removed by normal laundering ; bleaching is not necessary .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendation based on his / her professional knowledge and opinion , upon evaluating the active ingredients , inactive ingredients , excipients and chemical information provided herein .
Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC 11675 Great Oaks Way Alpharetta , GA 30022 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 0914 PACKAGE LABEL - 12 fl .
oz .
( 355 mL ) bottle NDC 42192 - 146 - 12 Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Cleansing Gel Rx Only For External Use Only 12 fl .
oz .
( 355 mL ) Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
