1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azelastine hydrochloride ( HCl ) nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the treatment of the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in adults and pediatric patients 5 years and older , and for the treatment of the symptoms of vasomotor rhinitis in adults and adolescent patients 12 years and older .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is an H1 - receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in adults and pediatric patients 5 years and older and for the treatment of the symptoms of vasomotor rhinitis in adults and adolescent patients 12 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For intranasal use only .
( 2 . 3 ) • Seasonal allergic rhinitis : • Pediatric patients 5 to 11 years of age : 1 spray per nostril twice daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older : 1 or 2 sprays per nostril twice daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Vasomotor rhinitis : 2 sprays per nostril twice daily in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older .
( 2 . 2 ) • Prime azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % before initial use and when it has not been used for 3 or more days .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis The recommended dosage of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % in adults and adolescent patients 12 years and older with seasonal allergic rhinitis is one or two sprays per nostril twice daily .
The recommended dosage of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % in pediatric patients 5 years to 11 years of age is one spray per nostril twice daily .
2 . 2 Vasomotor Rhinitis The recommended dosage of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % in adults and adolescent patients 12 years and older with vasomotor rhinitis is two sprays per nostril twice daily .
2 . 3 Important Administration Instructions Administer azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % by the intranasal route only .
Priming : Prime azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % before initial use by releasing 4 sprays or until a fine mist appears .
When azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % has not been used for 3 or more days , reprime with 2 sprays or until a fine mist appears .
Avoid spraying azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % into the eyes .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is a nasal spray solution .
Each spray of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % delivers a volume of 0 . 137 mL solution containing 137 mcg of azelastine HCl , USP .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % : 137 mcg of azelastine HCl , USP in each 0 . 137 mL spray .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Somnolence : Avoid engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery when taking azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
( 5 . 1 ) • Alcohol and other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants : Avoid concurrent use with azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % because further decreased alertness and impairment of CNS performance may occur .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Somnolence in Activities Requiring Mental Alertness In clinical trials , the occurrence of somnolence has been reported in some patients taking azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness and motor coordination such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle after administration of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
Concurrent use of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional reductions in alertness and additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % has been associated with somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % incidence ) are : bitter taste , headache , somnolence , dysesthesia , rhinitis , nasal burning , pharyngitis , epistaxis , sinusitis , paroxysmal sneezing , nausea , dry mouth , fatigue , dizziness , and weight increase .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect rates observed in practice .
Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % Two Sprays Per Nostril Twice Daily Adverse experience information for azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is derived from six placebo - and active - controlled , 2 - day to 8 - week clinical trials which included 391 patients , 12 years of age and older , with seasonal allergic rhinitis who received azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % at a dose of 2 sprays per nostril twice daily .
In placebo - controlled efficacy trials , the incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions in patients receiving azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % and vehicle placebo was 2 . 2 % and 2 . 8 % , respectively .
Table 1 contains adverse reactions that were reported with frequencies ≥ 2 % in the azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % 2 sprays per nostril twice daily treatment group and more frequently than placebo .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 2 % Incidence in Placebo - Controlled Trials in Patients with Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis [ n ( % ) ] Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % N = 391 Vehicle Placebo N = 353 Bitter Taste 77 ( 19 . 7 % ) 2 ( 0 . 6 % ) Headache 58 ( 14 . 8 % ) 45 ( 12 . 7 % ) Somnolence 45 ( 11 . 5 % ) 19 ( 5 . 4 % ) Nasal Burning 16 ( 4 . 1 % ) 6 ( 1 . 7 % ) Pharyngitis 15 ( 3 . 8 % ) 10 ( 2 . 8 % ) Paroxysmal Sneezing 12 ( 3 . 1 % ) 4 ( 1 . 1 % ) Dry Mouth 11 ( 2 . 8 % ) 6 ( 1 . 7 % ) Nausea 11 ( 2 . 8 % ) 4 ( 1 . 1 % ) Rhinitis 9 ( 2 . 3 % ) 5 ( 1 . 4 % ) Fatigue 9 ( 2 . 3 % ) 5 ( 1 . 4 % ) Dizziness 8 ( 2 . 0 % ) 5 ( 1 . 4 % ) Epistaxis 8 ( 2 . 0 % ) 5 ( 1 . 4 % ) Weight Increase 8 ( 2 . 0 % ) 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % One Spray Per Nostril Twice Daily Adverse experience information for azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % at a dose of one spray per nostril twice daily is derived from two placebo - controlled 2 - week clinical studies which included 276 patients 12 years of age and older with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
The incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions in patients receiving azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % and vehicle placebo was 0 . 0 % and 0 . 8 % , respectively .
Bitter taste was reported in 8 . 3 % of patients compared to none in the placebo group .
Somnolence was reported in 0 . 4 % of patients compared to none in the placebo group .
A total of 176 patients 5 to 11 years of age were exposed to azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % at a dose of 1 spray each nostril twice daily in 3 placebo - controlled studies .
In these studies , adverse reactions that occurred more frequently in patients treated with azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % than with placebo , and that were not represented in the adult adverse reactions table above include rhinitis / cold symptoms ( 17 . 0 % vs . 9 . 5 % ) , cough ( 11 . 4 % vs . 8 . 3 % ) , conjunctivitis ( 5 . 1 % vs . 1 . 8 % ) , and asthma ( 4 . 5 % vs . 4 . 1 % ) .
Adverse Reactions < 2 % in azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % One or Two Sprays Per Nostril Twice Daily The following reactions were observed infrequently ( < 2 % and exceeding placebo incidence ) in patients who received azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % dosed at 1 or 2 sprays per nostril twice daily in U . S . clinical trials .
Cardiovascular : flushing , hypertension , tachycardia .
Dermatological : contact dermatitis , eczema , hair and follicle infection , furunculosis , skin laceration .
Digestive : constipation , gastroenteritis , glossitis , ulcerative stomatitis , vomiting , increased SGPT , aphthous stomatitis , diarrhea , toothache .
Metabolic and Nutritional : increased appetite .
Musculoskeletal : myalgia , temporomandibular dislocation , rheumatoid arthritis .
Neurological : hyperkinesia , hypoesthesia , vertigo .
Psychological : anxiety , depersonalization , depression , nervousness , sleep disorder , thinking abnormal .
Respiratory : bronchospasm , coughing , throat burning , laryngitis , bronchitis , dry throat , nocturnal dyspnea , nasopharyngitis , nasal congestion , pharyngolaryngeal pain , sinusitis , nasal dryness , paranasal sinus hypersecretion , post nasal drip .
Special Senses : conjunctivitis , eye abnormality , eye pain , watery eyes , taste loss .
Urogenital : albuminuria , amenorrhea , breast pain , hematuria , increased urinary frequency .
Whole Body : allergic reaction , back pain , herpes simplex , viral infection , malaise , pain in extremities , abdominal pain , pyrexia .
Vasomotor Rhinitis Adverse experience information for azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is derived from two placebo - controlled clinical studies which included 216 patients 12 years and older with vasomotor rhinitis who received azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % at a dose of 2 sprays per nostril twice daily for up to 28 days .
The incidence of discontinuation due to adverse reactions in patients receiving azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % and vehicle placebo was 2 . 8 % and 2 . 9 % , respectively .
The following adverse reactions were reported with frequencies ≥ 2 % in the azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % treatment group and more frequently than placebo .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 2 % Incidence in Placebo - Controlled Trials in Patients with Vasomotor Rhinitis [ n ( % ) ] Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % N = 216 Vehicle Placebo N = 210 Bitter Taste 42 ( 19 . 4 % ) 5 ( 2 . 4 % ) Headache 17 ( 7 . 9 % ) 16 ( 7 . 6 % ) Dysesthesia 17 ( 7 . 9 % ) 7 ( 3 . 3 % ) Rhinitis 12 ( 5 . 6 % ) 5 ( 2 . 4 % ) Epistaxis 7 ( 3 . 2 % ) 5 ( 2 . 4 % ) Sinusitis 7 ( 3 . 2 % ) 4 ( 1 . 9 % ) Somnolence 7 ( 3 . 2 % ) 2 ( 1 . 0 % ) Reactions observed infrequently ( < 2 % and exceeding placebo incidence ) in patients who received azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ( 2 sprays / nostril twice daily ) in U . S . clinical trials in vasomotor rhinitis were similar to those observed in U . S . clinical trials in seasonal allergic rhinitis .
In controlled trials involving nasal and oral azelastine HCl formulations , there were infrequent occurrences of hepatic transaminase elevations .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience During the post approval use of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % , the following adverse reactions have been identified .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions reported include : anaphylaxis , application site irritation , atrial fibrillation , chest pain , confusion , dyspnea , facial edema , involuntary muscle contractions , nasal sores , palpitations , paresthesia , parosmia , pruritus , rash , disturbance or loss of sense of smell and / or taste , tolerance , urinary retention , vision abnormal and xerophthalmia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Central Nervous System Depressants Concurrent use of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because reductions in alertness and impairment of central nervous system performance may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited data from post - marketing experience over decades of use with azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % in pregnant women have not identified any drug associated risks of miscarriage , birth defects , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , there was no evidence of fetal harm at oral doses approximately 5 times the clinical daily dose .
Oral administration of azelastine HCl to pregnant mice , rats , and rabbits , during the period of organogenesis , produced developmental toxicity that included structural abnormalities , decreased embryo - fetal survival , and decreased fetal body weights at doses 270 times and higher than the maximum recommended human daily intranasal dose ( MRHDID ) of 1 . 096 mg .
However , the relevance of these findings in animals to pregnant women was considered questionable based upon the high animal to human dose multiple .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study in mice dosed during the period of organogenesis , azelastine HCl caused embryo - fetal death , structural abnormalities ( cleft palate ; short or absent tail ; fused , absent or branched ribs ) , delayed ossification , and decreased fetal weight at approximately 300 times the maximum recommended human daily intranasal dose ( MRHDID ) in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 68 . 6 mg / kg / day ) , which also caused maternal toxicity as evidenced by decreased maternal body weight .
Neither fetal nor maternal effects occurred in mice at approximately 15 times the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 7 to 17 , azelastine HCl caused structural abnormalities ( oligo - and brachydactylia ) , delayed ossification , and skeletal variations , in the absence of maternal toxicity , at approximately 270 times the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 30 mg / kg / day ) .
Azelastine HCl caused embryo - fetal death and decreased fetal weight and severe maternal toxicity at approximately 610 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 68 . 6 mg / kg / day ) .
Neither fetal nor maternal effects occurred at approximately 20 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 2 mg / kg / day ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 to 18 , azelastine HCl caused abortion , delayed ossification and decreased fetal weight and severe maternal toxicity at approximately 530 times the MRHDID in adults ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 30 mg / kg / day ) .
Neither fetal nor maternal effects occurred at approximately 5 times the MRHDID ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ) .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study in pregnant rats dosed from late in the gestation period and through the lactation period from gestation day 17 through lactation day 21 , azelastine HCl produced no adverse developmental effects on pups at maternal doses up to approximately 270 times the MRHDID ( on mg / m2 basis at a maternal dose of 30 mg / kg / day ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of azelastine HCl in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Breastfed infants should be monitored for signs of milk rejection during azelastine HCl use by lactating women ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitoring for Adverse Reactions Breastfed infants of lactating women treated with azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % should be monitored for possible signs of milk rejection related to the bitter taste of azelastine HCl .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % for the treatment of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis have been established for patients 5 years and older [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % for the treatment of vasomotor rhinitis have been established for patients 12 years and older [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % in pediatric patients below the age of 5 years with seasonal allergic rhinitis and in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years with vasomotor rhinitis have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reported overdosages with azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
Acute overdosage by adults with this dosage form is unlikely to result in clinically significant adverse reactions , other than increased somnolence , since one bottle of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % contains 30 mg of azelastine ( HCl ) .
Clinical trials in adults with single doses of the oral formulation of azelastine ( HCl ) ( up to 16 mg ) have not resulted in increased incidence of serious adverse reactions .
General supportive measures should be employed if overdosage occurs .
There is no known antidote to azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
Oral ingestion of antihistamines has the potential to cause serious adverse effects in young children .
Accordingly , azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % should be kept out of the reach of children .
11 DESCRIPTION Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % , 137 micrograms ( mcg ) , is an antihistamine formulated as a metered - spray solution for intranasal administration .
Azelastine HCl , USP occurs as a white , almost odorless , crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It has a molecular weight of 418 . 37 .
It is sparingly soluble in water , methanol , and propylene glycol and slightly soluble in ethanol , octanol , and glycerine .
It has a melting point of about 225 ° C and the pH of a saturated solution is between 5 . 0 and 5 . 4 .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) - 1 - ( 2 H ) - phthalazinone , 4 - [ ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - ( hexahydro - 1 - methyl - 1 H - azepin - 4 - yl ) - , monohydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C22H24ClN3O • HCl with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % contains 0 . 1 % azelastine HCl , USP in an aqueous solution at pH 6 . 8 ± 0 . 3 .
It also contains benzalkonium chloride ( 125 mcg / mL ) , citric acid , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hypromellose , purified water ( pH 6 . 8 ) and sodium chloride .
After priming [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] , each metered spray delivers a 0 . 137 mL mean volume containing 137 mcg of azelastine HCl , USP ( equivalent to 125 mcg of azelastine base ) .
The bottle can deliver 200 metered sprays .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Azelastine HCl , a phthalazinone derivative , exhibits histamine H1 - receptor antagonist activity in isolated tissues , animal models , and humans .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is administered as a racemic mixture with no difference in pharmacologic activity noted between the enantiomers in in vitro studies .
The major metabolite , desmethylazelastine , also possesses H1 - receptor antagonist activity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology : In a placebo - controlled study ( 95 subjects with allergic rhinitis ) , there was no evidence of an effect of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ( 2 sprays per nostril twice daily for 56 days ) on cardiac repolarization as represented by the corrected QT interval ( QTc ) of the electrocardiogram .
Following multiple dose oral administration of azelastine 4 mg or 8 mg twice daily , the mean change in QTc was 7 . 2 msec and 3 . 6 msec , respectively .
Interaction studies investigating the cardiac repolarization effects of concomitantly administered oral azelastine HCl and erythromycin or ketoconazole were conducted .
These drugs had no effect on QTc based on analysis of serial electrocardiograms .
At a dose approximately 8 times the maximum recommended dose , azelastine HCl does not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : After intranasal administration , the systemic bioavailability of azelastine HCl is approximately 40 % .
Maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) are achieved in 2 to 3 hours .
Azelastine HCl administered intranasally at doses above two sprays per nostril twice daily for 29 days resulted in greater than proportional increases in Cmax and area under the curve ( AUC ) for azelastine .
Distribution : Based on intravenous and oral administration , the steady - state volume of distribution is 14 . 5 L / kg .
In vitro studies with human plasma indicate that the plasma protein binding of azelastine and its metabolite , desmethylazelastine , are approximately 88 % and 97 % , respectively .
Metabolism : Azelastine is oxidatively metabolized to the principal active metabolite , desmethylazelastine , by the cytochrome P450 enzyme system .
The specific P450 isoforms responsible for the biotransformation of azelastine have not been identified .
After intranasal dosing of azelastine HCl to steady - state , plasma concentrations of desmethylazelastine range from 20 % to 50 % of azelastine concentrations .
Limited data indicate that the metabolite profile is similar when azelastine HCl is administered via the intranasal or oral route .
Elimination : Based on intravenous and oral administration , the elimination half - life and plasma clearance are 22 hours and 0 . 5 L / h / kg , respectively .
Approximately 75 % of an oral dose of radiolabeled azelastine HCl was excreted in the feces with less than 10 % as unchanged azelastine .
Special Populations : Hepatic Impairment : Following oral administration , pharmacokinetic parameters were not influenced by hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment : Based on oral , single - dose studies , renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) resulted in a 70 % to 75 % higher Cmax and AUC compared to normal subjects .
Time to maximum concentration was unchanged .
Age : Following oral administration , pharmacokinetic parameters were not influenced by age .
Gender : Following oral administration , pharmacokinetic parameters were not influenced by gender .
Race : The effect of race has not been evaluated .
Drug - Drug Interactions : Erythromycin : No significant pharmacokinetic interaction was observed with the co - administration of orally administered azelastine ( 4 mg twice daily ) with erythromycin ( 500 mg three times daily for 7 days ) .
In this study , co - administration of orally administered azelastine with erythromycin resulted in Cmax of 5 . 36 ± 2 . 6 ng / mL and AUC of 49 . 7 ± 24 ng • h / mL for azelastine , whereas , administration of azelastine alone resulted in Cmax of 5 . 57 ± 2 . 7 ng / mL and AUC of 48 . 4 ± 24 ng • h / mL for azelastine .
Cimetidine and Ranitidine : In a multiple - dose , steady - state drug interaction trial in healthy subjects , cimetidine ( 400 mg twice daily ) increased orally administered mean azelastine ( 4 mg twice daily ) concentrations by approximately 65 % .
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed with co - administration of orally administered azelastine ( 4 mg twice daily ) with ranitidine hydrochloride ( 150 mg twice daily ) .
Oral co - administration of azelastine with ranitidine resulted in Cmax of 8 . 89 ± 3 . 28 ng / mL and AUC of 88 . 22 ± 40 . 43 ng • h / mL for azelastine , whereas , azelastine when administered alone resulted in Cmax of 7 . 83 ± 4 . 06 ng / mL and AUC of 80 . 09 ± 43 . 55 ng • h / mL for azelastine .
Theophylline : No significant pharmacokinetic interaction was observed with the co - administration of an oral 4 mg dose of azelastine HCl twice daily and theophylline 300 mg or 400 mg twice daily .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies in Crl : CD ( SD ) BR rats and NMRI mice were conducted to assess the carcinogenic potential of azelastine HCl .
No evidence of tumorigenicity was observed in rats at doses up to 30 mg / kg ( approximately 270 and 240 times the MRHDID for adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No evidence for tumorigenicity was observed in mice at doses up to 25 mg / kg ( approximately 110 and 100 times the MRHDID for adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Azelastine HCl showed no genotoxic effects in the Ames test , DNA repair test , mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , mouse micronucleus test , or chromosomal aberration test in rat bone marrow .
There were no effects on male or female fertility and reproductive performance in male and female rats at oral doses up to 30 mg / kg ( approximately 270 times the MRHDID in adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
At 68 . 6 mg / kg ( approximately 610 times the MRHDID on a mg / m2 basis ) , the duration of estrous cycles was prolonged and copulatory activity and the number of pregnancies were decreased .
The numbers of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased ; however , pre - implantation loss was not increased .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis Two Sprays Per Nostril Twice Daily The efficacy and safety of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % were evaluated in three placebo - controlled clinical trials of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % including 322 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis who received two sprays per nostril twice a day for up to 4 weeks .
These trials included 55 pediatric patients ages 12 to 16 years .
Assessment of efficacy was based on the 12 - hour reflective Total Symptom Complex ( TSC ) and Major Symptom Complex ( MSC ) .
The MSC was calculated as the average of individual symptoms of nose blows , sneezes , runny nose / sniffles , itchy nose , and watery eyes as assessed by patients on a 0 to 5 categorical scale .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % two sprays per nostril twice daily demonstrated a greater decrease in the MSC than placebo ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Mean Change from Baseline in Reflective MSC * in Adults and Adolescents ≥ 12 Years with Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis Treated with Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % Two Sprays Per Nostril Twice Daily Versus Placebo Treatment N Baseline LS Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline ( SD ) Treatment Difference P - value Trial 1 : 12 Hour AM and PM Reflective MSC Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % 63 11 . 48 ( 4 . 13 ) - 3 . 05 ( 3 . 51 ) 1 . 98 < 0 . 01 Placebo Nasal Spray 60 10 . 84 ( 4 . 53 ) - 1 . 07 ( 3 . 52 ) Trial 2 : 12 Hour AM and PM Reflective MSC Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % 63 12 . 50 ( 4 . 5 ) - 4 . 10 ( 3 . 46 ) 2 . 03 < 0 . 01 Placebo Nasal Spray 63 12 . 18 ( 4 . 64 ) - 2 . 07 ( 4 . 01 ) Trial 3 : 12 Hour AM and PM Reflective MSC Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % 66 12 . 04 ( 4 . 03 ) - 3 . 31 ( 3 . 74 ) 1 . 35 0 . 04 Placebo Nasal Spray 66 11 . 66 ( 3 . 96 ) - 1 . 96 ( 3 . 57 ) * Major Symptom Complex ( MSC ) : Average of individual symptoms of nose blows , sneezes , runny nose / sniffles , itchy nose , and watery eyes as assessed by patients on a 0 to 5 categorical scale .
In dose - ranging trials , administration of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % two sprays per nostril twice daily resulted in a statistically significant decrease in symptoms compared to saline placebo within 3 hours after initial dosing and persisted over the 12 - hour dosing interval .
One Spray Per Nostril Twice Daily The efficacy and safety of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % were evaluated in two placebo - controlled clinical trials of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % including 275 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis who received one spray per nostril twice a day for up to 2 weeks .
Assessment of efficacy was based on the 12 - hour reflective Total Nasal Symptom Score [ rTNSS ] .
rTNSS is calculated as the sum of the patients scoring of four individual nasal symptoms ( runny nose , sneezing , itchy nose , and nasal congestion ) as assessed by patients on a 0 to 3 categorical scale .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from Baseline to Day 14 in rTNSS .
The mean change from baseline in rTNSS was greater in patients receiving azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % one spray per nostril twice daily than those receiving placebo ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Mean Change from Baseline in Reflective TNSS * in Adults and Adolescents ≥ 12 years with Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis Treated with Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % One Spray Per Nostril Twice Daily Versus Placebo Treatment N Baseline LS Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline ( SD ) Treatment Difference P - value Trial 4 : 12 Hour AM and PM Reflective TNSS Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % 138 16 . 34 ( 4 . 22 ) - 2 . 69 ( 4 . 79 ) 1 . 38 0 . 01 Placebo Nasal Spray 141 17 . 21 ( 4 . 32 ) - 1 . 31 ( 4 . 29 ) Trial 5 : 12 Hour AM and PM Reflective TNSS Azelastine HCl Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % 137 16 . 62 ( 4 . 20 ) - 3 . 68 ( 4 . 16 ) 1 . 18 0 . 02 Placebo Nasal Spray 136 16 . 84 ( 4 . 77 ) - 2 . 50 ( 4 . 01 ) * Total Nasal Symptom Score ( TNSS ) : Average of individual symptoms of runny nose , sneezing , itchy nose , and nasal congestion as assessed by patients on a 0 to 3 categorical scale .
Two - week studies comparing the efficacy ( and safety ) of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % two sprays per nostril twice daily versus one spray per nostril twice daily were not conducted .
14 . 2 Vasomotor Rhinitis The efficacy and safety of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % were evaluated in two placebo - controlled clinical trials of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % including 216 patients with vasomotor rhinitis who received two sprays per nostril twice a day for up to 4 weeks .
These patients had vasomotor rhinitis for at least one year , negative skin tests to indoor and outdoor aeroallergens , negative nasal smears for eosinophils , and negative sinus X - rays .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % demonstrated a significantly greater decrease in a symptom complex comprised of rhinorrhea , post nasal drip , nasal congestion , and sneezing compared to placebo .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Azelastine HCl nasal spray 0 . 1 % , 137 mcg , is supplied as a 30 - mL package ( NDC 65162 - 676 - 84 ) delivering 200 metered sprays in a high - density polyethylene ( HDPE ) bottle fitted with a metered - dose spray pump unit .
The spray pump unit consists of a nasal spray pump fitted with a white safety clip and a white or clear plastic dust cover .
The net content of the bottle is 30 mL ( net weight 30 g of solution ) .
Each bottle contains 30 mg ( 1 mg / mL ) of azelastine HCl , USP .
After priming [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] , each spray delivers a fine mist containing a mean volume of 0 . 137 mL solution containing 137 mcg of azelastine HCl , USP .
The correct amount of medication in each spray cannot be assured before the initial priming and after 200 sprays have been used , even though the bottle is not completely empty .
The bottle should be discarded after 200 sprays have been used .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % should not be used after the expiration date “ EXP ” printed on the medicine label and carton .
Storage : Store upright at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Somnolence has been reported in some patients taking azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
Caution patients against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness and motor coordination such as driving or operating machinery after administration of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Concurrent Use of Alcohol and other Central Nervous System Depressants Instruct patients to avoid concurrent use of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants because additional reductions in alertness and additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Common Adverse Reactions Inform patients that the treatment with azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % may lead to adverse reactions , which include bitter taste , headache , somnolence , dysesthesia , rhinitis , nasal burning , pharyngitis , epistaxis , sinusitis , paroxysmal sneezing , nausea , dry mouth , fatigue , dizziness , and weight increase [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Priming Instruct patients to prime the pump before initial use and when azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % has not been used for 3 or more days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Keep Spray Out of Eyes Instruct patients to avoid spraying azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % into their eyes .
Keep Out of Children ’ s Reach Instruct patients to keep azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % out of the reach of children .
If a child accidentally ingests azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % , seek medical help or call a poison control center immediately .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 10 - 2018 - 02 PATIENT INFORMATION Azelastine Hydrochloride ( ay ” ze las ’ teen hye ” droe klor ’ ide ) Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % Important : For use in your nose only .
What is azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
• Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is a prescription medicine used to treat symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in people age 5 and older and vasomotor rhinitis in people age 12 and older .
• Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % may help to reduce your nasal symptoms including stuffy nose , runny nose , itching and sneezing .
It is not known if azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % is safe and effective in children with seasonal allergic rhinitis under 5 years of age or in children with vasomotor rhinitis under 12 years of age .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
Before using azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % , tell your healthcare provider if you are : • allergic to any of the ingredients in azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
• pregnant , or plan to become pregnant .
• breastfeeding , or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if azelastine HCl passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % if you plan to breastfeed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % and other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
How should I use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this leaflet for information about the right way to use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
• Spray azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % in your nose only .
Do not spray it into your eyes or mouth .
• Use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Do not use more than your healthcare provider tells you .
• Throw away your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % bottle after using 200 sprays .
Even though the bottle may not be completely empty , you may not get the correct dose of medicine .
• If you use too much or a child accidentally swallows azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while using azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
Azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % can cause sleepiness : • Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that may cause you to feel sleepy while using azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
It may make your sleepiness worse .
What are the possible side effects of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
The most common side effects of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % include : • unusual bitter taste • headache • sleepiness • nose burning , pain or discomfort • runny nose • scratchy or sore throat • nosebleeds • inflammation or swelling of the sinuses • sneezing • nausea • dry mouth • fatigue • dizziness • weight increase Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
• Keep azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % upright at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
• Do not use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % after the expiration date “ EXP ” on the medicine label and box .
Keep azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % that is written for health professionals .
For more information call 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 .
What are the ingredients in azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ?
Active ingredient : Azelastine HCl , USP Inactive ingredients : Benzalkonium chloride , citric acid , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hypromellose , purified water ( pH 6 . 8 ) and sodium chloride .
* Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 10 - 2018 - 02 Instructions for Use Azelastine Hydrochloride ( ay ” ze las ’ teen hye ” droe klor ’ ide ) Nasal Spray , 0 . 1 % Important : For use in your nose only .
For the correct dose of medicine : • Keep your head tilted downward when spraying into your nostril .
• Change nostrils each time you use the spray .
• Breathe gently and do not tip your head back after using the spray .
This will keep the medicine from running down into your throat .
You may get a bitter taste in your mouth .
Figure A identifies the parts of your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % pump [ MULTIMEDIA ] Before you use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % for the first time , you will need to prime the bottle .
Priming your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % Remove the dust cover over the tip of the pump and the white safety clip just under the “ shoulders ” of the pump ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Hold the bottle upright with 2 fingers on the shoulders of the spray pump unit and • put your thumb on the bottom of the bottle .
Press upward with your thumb and release for the pumping action .
Repeat this until you see a fine mist ( See Figure C ) .
• To get a fine mist you must pump the spray fast and use firm pressure against the bottom of the bottle .
If you see a stream of liquid , the pump is not working correctly and you may have nasal discomfort .
• This should happen in 4 sprays or less .
Now your pump is primed and ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % unless you see a fine mist after you do the priming sprays .
If you do not see a fine mist , clean the tip of the spray nozzle .
See the “ Cleaning the Spray Tip of your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % ” section below .
• If you do not use azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % for 3 or more days , you will need to prime the pump with 2 sprays or until you see a fine mist .
Using your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % Step 1 .
Blow your nose to clear your nostrils .
Step 2 .
Keep your head tilted downward toward your toes .
Step 3 .
Place the spray tip about ¼ inch to ½ inch into 1 nostril .
Hold bottle upright and aim the spray tip toward the back of your nose ( See Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Close your other nostril with a finger .
Press the pump 1 time and sniff gently at the same time , keeping your head tilted forward and down ( See Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Repeat Step 3 and Step 4 in your other nostril .
Step 6 .
If your healthcare provider tells you to use 2 sprays in each nostril , repeat Steps 2 through 4 above for the second spray in each nostril .
Step 7 .
Breathe in gently , and do not tilt your head back after using azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % .
This will help to keep the medicine from going into your throat .
Step 8 .
When you finish using your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % , wipe the spray tip with a clean tissue or cloth .
Put the safety clip and dust cover back on the bottle .
Cleaning the Spray Tip of your azelastine HCl nasal spray , 0 . 1 % • The spray tip opening is clogged , do not use a pin or pointed object to unclog the tip .
Unscrew the spray pump unit from the bottle by turning it to the left ( counter - clockwise ) ( See Figure F ) .
• Soak only the spray pump unit in warm water .
Squirt the spray unit several times while holding it under water .
Use the pumping action to clear the opening in the tip ( See Figure G ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Let the spray pump unit air dry .
Make sure it is dry before you put it back onto the bottle .
• Put the spray pump unit back into the open bottle and tighten it by turning clockwise ( to the right ) .
• To keep the medicine from leaking out , use firm pressure when you put the pump back onto the bottle .
• After cleaning , follow the instructions for priming .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 10 - 2018 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
