DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients ( in each 30 mL ) Purpose Menthol 0 . 15 % Anesthetic / Analgesic Zinc Chloride 0 . 1 % Astringent INDICATIONS For the temporary relief of occasional minor throat irritation , pain , sore mouth , sore throat , pain associated with canker sores , pain due to minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums , pain due to minor dental procedures , pain due to minor irritations caused by dentures or orthodontic appliance , sore gums due to teething in infants and children 4 months of age and older .
DIRECTION FOR SPRAY Spray G - Bucal - C several times as directed by physician or dentist to affected are in the mouth or lips .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
Children under two years of age consult a doctor or dentist .
As a gargle or mouthwash , ½ teaspoon in a half glass of warm water .
Gargle swish around the mouth or allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Benzocaine , cetylpyridinium chloride , citric acid , glycerin , peppermint oil , polyethylene glycol , purified water , sodium citrate and sodium saccharin .
Each 30 mL Contains : Cetylpyridinium Chloride 30 mg Benzocaine 600 mg Menthol 45 mg Zinc Chloride 30 mg WARNINGS If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
If irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens , or if swelling , rash or fever develops , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
DO NOT EXCEED RECOMMENDED DOSAGE .
Do not use this product if you have history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Discontinue use and consult a doctor if irritation persists or increases or a rash appears on the skin .
Fever and nasal congestion are not symptoms of teething and may indicate the presence of infection .
If these symptoms persist , consult your doctor .
DO NOT USE IN OR NEAR THE EYES .
In the event of accidental contact with eyes , flush immediately and continuously for ten minutes .
See immediate medical attention if pain or irritation persists .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using this product .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Label NDC - 43913 - 402 - 30 G - Bucal - C Oral Solution Spray Anesthetic • Astringent Alcohol Free • Peppermint Flavor 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) For Dispensing Under Pharmaceutical Supervision Only McLaren Medical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
