Ethacrynic Acid is a potent diuretic which , if given in excessive amounts , may lead to profound diuresis with water and electrolyte depletion .
Therefore , careful medical supervision is required , and dose and dose schedule must be adjusted to the individual patient ' s needs ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
DESCRIPTION Ethacrynic acid is an unsaturated ketone derivative of an aryloxyacetic acid .
It is designated chemically as [ 2 , 3 - dichloro - 4 - ( 2 - methylene - 1 - oxobutyl ) phenoxy ] acetic acid , and has a molecular weight of 303 . 14 .
Ethacrynic acid USP is a white , or almost white , crystalline powder , very slightly soluble in water , but soluble in most organic solvents such as alcohols , chloroform , and benzene .
Its molecular formula is C13H12Cl2O4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethacrynate sodium is formed by in situ conversion of ethacrynic acid using sodium hydroxide .
Ethacrynate sodium , the sodium salt of ethacrynic acid , is soluble in water at 25 ° C to the extent of about 7 percent .
Solutions of the sodium salt are relatively stable at about pH 7 at room temperature for short periods , but as the pH or temperature increases the solutions are less stable .
The molecular weight of ethacrynate sodium is 325 . 12 .
Its molecular formula is C13H11Cl2NaO4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Intravenous ETHACRYNATE SODIUM FOR INJECTION , USP ( Ethacrynate Sodium ) is a sterile freeze - dried powder and is supplied in a vial containing : Ethacrynate sodium equivalent to ethacrynic acid ......
50 . 0 mg Inactive ingredient : Mannitol ......................
62 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Ethacrynic acid acts on the ascending limb of the loop of Henle and on the proximal and distal tubules .
Urinary output is usually dose dependent and related to the magnitude of fluid accumulation .
Water and electrolyte excretion may be increased several times over that observed with thiazide diuretics , since Ethacrynic acid inhibits reabsorption of a much greater proportion of filtered sodium than most other diuretic agents .
Therefore , Ethacrynic acid is effective in many patients who have significant degrees of renal insufficiency ( see WARNINGS concerning deafness ) .
Ethacrynic acid has little or no effect on glomerular filtration or on renal blood flow , except following pronounced reductions in plasma volume when associated with rapid diuresis .
The electrolyte excretion pattern of ethacrynic acid varies from that of the thiazides and mercurial diuretics .
Initial sodium and chloride excretion is usually substantial and chloride loss exceeds that of sodium .
With prolonged administration , chloride excretion declines , and potassium and hydrogen ion excretion may increase .
Ethacrynic acid is effective whether or not there is clinical acidosis or alkalosis .
Although Ethacrynic acid , in carefully controlled studies in animals and experimental subjects , produces a more favorable sodium / potassium excretion ratio than the thiazides , in patients with increased diuresis excessive amounts of potassium may be excreted .
Onset of action is rapid , within 5 minutes after an intravenous injection of ETHACRYNATE SODIUM .
The sulfhydryl binding propensity of ethacrynic acid differs somewhat from that of the organomercurials .
Its mode of action is not by carbonic anhydrase inhibition .
Ethacrynic acid does not cross the blood - brain barrier .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ethacrynic acid is indicated for treatment of edema when an agent with greater diuretic potential than those commonly employed is required .
• Treatment of the edema associated with congestive heart failure , cirrhosis of the liver , and renal disease , including the nephrotic syndrome .
• Short - term management of ascites due to malignancy , idiopathic edema , and lymphedema .
• Short - term management of hospitalized pediatric patients , other than infants , with congenital heart disease or the nephrotic syndrome .
• Intravenous ETHACRYNATE SODIUM FOR INJECTION , USP is indicated when a rapid onset of diuresis is desired , e . g . , in acute pulmonary edema , or when gastrointestinal absorption is impaired or oral medication is not practicable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS All diuretics , including ethacrynic acid , are contraindicated in anuria .
If increasing electrolyte imbalance , azotemia , and / or oliguria occur during treatment of severe , progressive renal disease , the diuretic should be discontinued .
In a few patients this diuretic has produced severe , watery diarrhea .
If this occurs , it should be discontinued and not used again .
Until further experience in infants is accumulated , therapy with oral and parenteral Ethacrynic acid is contraindicated .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS The effects of Ethacrynic acid on electrolytes are related to its renal pharmacologic activity and are dose dependent .
The possibility of profound electrolyte and water loss may be avoided by weighing the patient throughout the treatment period , by careful adjustment of dosage , by initiating treatment with small doses , and by using the drug on an intermittent schedule when possible .
When excessive diuresis occurs , the drug should be withdrawn until homeostasis is restored .
When excessive electrolyte loss occurs , the dosage should be reduced or the drug temporarily withdrawn .
Initiation of diuretic therapy with Ethacrynic acid in the cirrhotic patient with ascites is best carried out in the hospital .
When maintenance therapy has been established , the individual can be satisfactorily followed as an outpatient .
Ethacrynic acid should be given with caution to patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver , particularly those with a history of previous episodes of electrolyte imbalance or hepatic encephalopathy .
Like other diuretics it may precipitate hepatic coma and death .
Too vigorous a diuresis , as evidenced by rapid and excessive weight loss , may induce an acute hypotensive episode .
In elderly cardiac patients , rapid contraction of plasma volume and the resultant hemoconcentration should be avoided to prevent the development of thromboembolic episodes , such as cerebral vascular thromboses and pulmonary emboli which may be fatal .
Excessive loss of potassium in patients receiving digitalis glycosides may precipitate digitalis toxicity .
Care should also be exercised in patients receiving potassium - depleting steroids .
A number of possibly drug - related deaths have occurred in critically ill patients refractory to other diuretics .
These generally have fallen into two categories : ( 1 ) patients with severe myocardial disease who have been receiving digitalis and presumably developed acute hypokalemia with fatal arrhythmia ; ( 2 ) patients with severely decompensated hepatic cirrhosis with ascites , with or without accompanying encephalopathy , who were in electrolyte imbalance and died because of intensification of the electrolyte defect .
Deafness , tinnitus , and vertigo with a sense of fullness in the ears have occurred , most frequently in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
These symptoms have been associated most often with intravenous administration and with doses in excess of those recommended .
The deafness has usually been reversible and of short duration ( one to 24 hours ) .
However , in some patients the hearing loss has been permanent .
A number of these patients were also receiving drugs known to be ototoxic .
Ethacrynic acid may increase the ototoxic potential of other drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Weakness , muscle cramps , paresthesias , thirst , anorexia , and signs of hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and / or hypochloremic alkalosis may occur following vigorous or excessive diuresis and these may be accentuated by rigid salt restriction .
Rarely , tetany has been reported following vigorous diuresis .
During therapy with ethacrynic acid , liberalization of salt intake and supplementary potassium chloride are often necessary .
When a metabolic alkalosis may be anticipated , e . g . , in cirrhosis with ascites , the use of potassium chloride or a potassium - sparing agent before and during therapy with Ethacrynic acid may mitigate or prevent the hypokalemia .
Loop diuretics have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
The safety and efficacy of ethacrynic acid in hypertension have not been established .
However , the dosage of coadministered antihypertensive agents may require adjustment .
Orthostatic hypotension may occur in patients receiving other antihypertensive agents when given ethacrynic acid .
Ethacrynic acid has little or no effect on glomerular filtration or on renal blood flow , except following pronounced reductions in plasma volume when associated with rapid diuresis .
A transient increase in serum urea nitrogen may occur .
Usually , this is readily reversible when the drug is discontinued .
As with other diuretics used in the treatment of renal edema , hypoproteinemia may reduce responsiveness to ethacrynic acid and the use of salt - poor albumin should be considered .
A number of drugs , including ethacrynic acid , have been shown to displace warfarin from plasma protein ; a reduction in the usual anticoagulant dosage may be required in patients receiving both drugs .
Ethacrynic acid may increase the risk of gastric hemorrhage associated with corticosteroid treatment .
Laboratory Tests Frequent serum electrolyte , CO2 and BUN determinations should be performed early in therapy and periodically thereafter during active diuresis .
Any electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected or the drug temporarily withdrawn .
Increases in blood glucose and alterations in glucose tolerance tests have been observed in patients receiving Ethacrynic acid .
Drug Interactions Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Read circulars for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy .
Ethacrynic acid may increase the ototoxic potential of other drugs such as aminoglycoside and some cephalosporin antibiotics .
Their concurrent use should be avoided .
A number of drugs , including ethacrynic acid , have been shown to displace warfarin from plasma protein ; a reduction in the usual anticoagulant dosage may be required in patients receiving both drugs .
In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when Ethacrynic acid and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect in a 79 week oral chronic toxicity study in rats at doses up to 45 times the human dose .
Ethacrynic acid had no effect on fertility in a two - litter study in rats or a two - generation study in mice at 10 times the human dose .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in the mouse and rabbit at doses up to 50 times the human dose showed no evidence of external abnormalities of the fetus due to Ethacrynic acid .
In a two - litter study in the dog and rat , oral doses of 5 or 20 mg / kg / day ( 2 ½ or 10 times the human dose ) , respectively , did not interfere with pregnancy or with growth and development of the pups .
Although there was reduction in the mean body weights of the fetuses in a teratogenic study in the rat at a dose level of 100 mg / kg ( 50 times the human dose ) , there was no effect on mortality or postnatal development .
Functional and morphologic abnormalities were not observed .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Since animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Ethacrynic acid should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Ethacrynic acid , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use There are no well - controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients .
The information on oral dosing in pediatric patients , other than infants , is supported by evidence from empiric use in this age group .
Safety and effectiveness of parenteral use in infants have not been established ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of intravenous use in pediatric patients have not been established ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Intravenous Use ) .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of Ethacrynic acid / Ethacrynate sodium , approximately 224 patients ( 21 % ) were 65 to 74 years of age , while approximately 100 patients ( 9 % ) were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
( See WARNINGS . )
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Anorexia , malaise , abdominal discomfort or pain , dysphagia , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea have occurred .
These are more frequent with large doses or after one to three months of continuous therapy .
A few patients have had sudden onset of profuse , watery diarrhea .
Discontinue Ethacrynic acid if diarrhea is severe and do not give it again .
Gastrointestinal bleeding has occurred in some patients .
Rarely , acute pancreatitis has been reported .
Metabolic Reversible hyperuricemia and acute gout have been reported .
Acute symptomatic hypoglycemia with convulsions occurred in two uremic patients who received doses above those recommended .
Hyperglycemia has been reported .
Rarely , jaundice and abnormal liver function tests have been reported in seriously ill patients receiving multiple drug therapy , including Ethacrynic acid .
Hematologic Agranulocytosis or severe neutropenia has been reported in a few critically ill patients also receiving agents known to produce this effect .
Thrombocytopenia has been reported rarely .
Henoch - Sch nlein purpura has been reported rarely in patients with rheumatic heart disease receiving multiple drug therapy , including Ethacrynic acid .
Special Senses ( see WARNINGS ) Deafness , tinnitus and vertigo with a sense of fullness in the ears , and blurred vision have occurred .
Central Nervous System Headache , fatigue , apprehension , confusion .
Miscellaneous Skin rash , fever , chills , hematuria .
ETHACRYNATE SODIUM occasionally has caused local irritation and pain after intravenous use .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage may lead to excessive diuresis with electrolyte depletion and dehydration .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
Emesis should be induced or gastric lavage performed .
Correct dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , hepatic coma , and hypotension by established procedures .
If required , give oxygen or artificial respiration for respiratory impairment .
In the mouse , the oral LD50 of ethacrynic acid is 627 mg / kg and the intravenous LD50 of ethacrynate sodium is 175 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be regulated carefully to prevent a more rapid or substantial loss of fluid or electrolyte than is indicated or necessary .
The magnitude of diuresis and natriuresis is largely dependent on the degree of fluid accumulation present in the patient .
Similarly , the extent of potassium excretion is determined in large measure by the presence and magnitude of aldosteronism .
Intravenous Use ETHACRYNATE SODIUM FOR INJECTION , USP is for intravenous use when oral intake is impractical or in urgent conditions , such as acute pulmonary edema .
The usual intravenous dose for the average sized adult is 50 mg , or 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 mg per kg of body weight .
Usually only one dose has been necessary ; occasionally a second dose at a new injection site , to avoid possible thrombophlebitis , may be required .
A single intravenous dose not exceeding 100 mg has been used in critical situations .
Insufficient pediatric experience precludes recommendation for this age group .
To reconstitute the dry material , add 50 mL of 5 percent Dextrose Injection , or Sodium Chloride Injection to the vial .
Occasionally , some 5 percent Dextrose Injection solutions may have a low pH ( below 5 ) .
The resulting solution with such a diluent may be hazy or opalescent .
Intravenous use of such a solution is not recommended .
Inspect the vial containing Intravenous ETHACRYNATE SODIUM for particulate matter and discoloration before use .
The solution may be given slowly through the tubing of a running infusion or by direct intravenous injection over a period of several minutes .
Do not mix this solution with whole blood or its derivatives .
Discard unused reconstituted solution after 24 hours .
ETHACRYNATE SODIUM FOR INJECTION , USP should not be given subcutaneously or intramuscularly because of local pain and irritation .
HOW SUPPLIED ETHACRYNATE SODIUM FOR INJECTION , USP is a white to off - white lyophilized powder or cake .
It is supplied in vials containing ethacrynate sodium equivalent to 50 mg of ethacrynic acid , NDC Ethacrynate Sodium for Injection , USP Packaging 68382 - 246 - 01 50 mg per vial 1 vial individually packed in a carton Storage Store in a tightly closed container at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Cadila Healthcare Limited .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev : 11 / 17 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 MG SINGLE DOSE VIAL CONTAINER LABEL NDC 68382 - 246 - 01 Ethacrynate Sodium for Injection , USP 50 mg / vial * * 50 mg Ethacrynic Acid Equivalent For Intravenous Use SINGLE DOSE VIAL Rx only zydus pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 MG SINGLE DOSE VIAL CARTON LABEL NDC 68382 - 246 - 01 Ethacrynate Sodium for Injection , USP 50 mg / vial * * 50 mg Ethacrynic Acid Equivalent For Intravenous Use FOR THE PREPARATION OF INTRAVENOUS SOLUTIONS ETHACRYNATE SODIUM ( active ingredient ) SINGLE DOSE VIAL Rx only zydus pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
