Boxed Warning Suicidality and Antidepressant Drugs Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short - term studies of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of protriptyline hydrochloride or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
Protriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in pediatric patients .
( See WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk , PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients , and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use . )
DESCRIPTION Protriptyline HCl is N - methyl - 5 H dibenzo [ a , d ] - cycloheptene - 5 - propanamine hydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C19H21N • HCl and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Protriptyline HCl , a dibenzocycloheptene derivative , has a molecular weight of 299 . 84 .
It is a white to yellowish powder that is freely soluble in water and soluble in dilute HCl .
Protriptyline HCl is supplied as 5 mg or 10 mg film - coated tablets .
Inactive ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , lactose monohydrate , dibasic calcium phosphate , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , hypromellose , triacetin , polysorbate , titanium dioxide and FD & C yellow 6 aluminum lake .
The 10 mg tablet also contains polyethylene glycol and polysorbate 80 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Protriptyline hydrochloride is an antidepressant agent .
The mechanism of its antidepressant action in man is not known .
It is not a monoamine oxidase inhibitor , and it does not act primarily by stimulation of the central nervous system .
Protriptyline has been found in some studies to have a more rapid onset of action than imipramine or amitriptyline .
The initial clinical effect may occur within one week .
Sedative and tranquilizing properties are lacking .
The rate of excretion is slow .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Protriptyline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptoms of mental depression in patients who are under close medical supervision .
Its activating properties make it particularly suitable for withdrawn and anergic patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Protriptyline hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown prior hypersensitivity to it .
It should not be given concomitantly with a monoamine oxidase inhibiting compound .
Hyperpyretic crises , severe convulsions , and deaths have occurred in patients receiving tricyclic antidepressant and monoamine oxidase inhibiting drugs simultaneously .
When it is desired to substitute protriptyline for a monoamine oxidase inhibitor , a minimum of 14 days should be allowed to elapse after the latter is discontinued .
Protriptyline should then be initiated cautiously with gradual increase in dosage until optimum response is achieved .
Protriptyline is contraindicated in patients taking cisapride because of the possibility of adverse cardiac interactions including prolongation of the QT interval , cardiac arrhythmias and conduction system disturbances .
This drug should not be used during the acute recovery phase following myocardial infarction .
WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents and young adults ( aged 18 - 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analysis of placebo - controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders including a total of 24 short - term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug - placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated ) are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 Suicidality Cases in Drug - Placebo Patients Per Age Group Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Drug - Related Increases < 18 14 additional cases 18 - 24 5 additional cases Drug - Related Decreases 25 - 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment , medication should be tapered , as rapidly as is feasible , but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS - Withdrawal Symptoms for a description of the risks of discontinuation of protriptyline hydrochloride tablets ) .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for protriptyline hydrochloride tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder : A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that protriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Protriptyline may block the antihypertensive effect of guanethidine or similarly acting compounds .
Protriptyline should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures , and , because of its autonomic activity , in patients with a tendency to urinary retention , or increased intraocular tension .
Tachycardia and postural hypotension may occur more frequently with protriptyline than with other antidepressant drugs .
Protriptyline should be used with caution in elderly patients and patients with cardiovascular disorders ; such patients should be observed closely because of the tendency of the drug to produce tachycardia , hypotension , arrhythmias , and prolongation of the conduction time .
Myocardial infarction and stroke have occurred with drugs of this class .
On rare occasions , hyperthyroid patients or those receiving thyroid medication may develop arrhythmias when this drug is given .
In patients who may use alcohol excessively , it should be borne in mind that the potentiation may increase the danger inherent in any suicide attempt or overdosage .
Angle - Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including protriptyline hydrochloride tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy .
Usage in Pregnancy Safe use in pregnancy and lactation has not been established ; therefore , use in pregnant women , nursing mothers or women who may become pregnant requires that possible benefits be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child .
In mice , rats , and rabbits , doses about ten times greater than the recommended human doses had no apparent adverse effects on reproduction .
PRECAUTIONS General When protriptyline HCl is used to treat the depressive component of schizophrenia , psychotic symptoms may be aggravated .
Likewise , in manic - depressive psychosis , depressed patients may experience a shift toward the manic phase if they are treated with an antidepressant drug .
Paranoid delusions , with or without associated hostility , may be exaggerated .
In any of these circumstances , it may be advisable to reduce the dose of protriptyline or to use a major tranquilizing drug concurrently .
Symptoms , such as anxiety or agitation , may be aggravated in overactive or agitated patients .
The possibility of suicide in depressed patients remains during treatment and until significant remission occurs .
This type of patient should not have access to large quantities of the drug .
Concurrent administration of protriptyline and electroshock therapy may increase the hazards of therapy .
Such treatment should be limited to patients for whom it is essential .
Discontinue the drug several days before elective surgery , if possible .
Both elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels have been reported .
Information for Patients Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with protriptyline hydrochloride and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide about “ Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illness , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions ” is available for protriptyline hydrochloride .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescriber if these occur while taking protriptyline hydrochloride .
Patients should be advised that taking protriptyline hydrochloride tablets can cause mild pupillary dilation , which in susceptible individuals , can lead to an episode of angle - closure glaucoma .
Pre - existing glaucoma is almost always open - angle glaucoma because angle - closure glaucoma , when diagnosed , can be treated definitively with iridectomy .
Open angle glaucoma is not a risk factor for angle closure glaucoma .
Patients may wish to be examined to determine whether they are susceptible to angle closure , and have a prophylactic procedure ( e . g . , iridectomy ) , if they are susceptible .
Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression , and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to look for the emergence of such symptoms on a day - to - day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ’ s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
While on therapy with protriptyline , patients should be advised as to the possible impairment of mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug Interactions When protriptyline is given with anticholinergic agents or sympathomimetic drugs , including epinephrine combined with local anesthetics , close supervision and careful adjustment of dosages are required .
Hyperpyrexia has been reported when tricyclic antidepressants are administered with anticholinergic agents or with neuroleptic drugs , particularly during hot weather .
Cimetidine is reported to reduce hepatic metabolism of certain tricyclic antidepressants , thereby delaying elimination and increasing steady - state concentrations of these drugs .
Clinically significant effects have been reported with the tricyclic antidepressants when used concomitantly with cimetidine .
Increases in plasma levels of tricyclic antidepressants , and in the frequency and severity of side - effects , particularly anticholinergic , have been reported when cimetidine was added to the drug regimen .
Discontinuation of cimetidine in well - controlled patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants and cimetidine may decrease the plasma levels and efficacy of the antidepressants .
Tricyclic antidepressants may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking ULTRAM ( tramadol hydrochloride ) .
Protriptyline may enhance the response to alcohol and the effects of barbiturates and other CNS depressants .
Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( debrisoquine hydroxylase ) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population ( about 7 % to 10 % of Caucasians are so called “ poor metabolizers ” ) ; reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian , African , and other populations are not yet available .
Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) when given usual doses .
Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6 , the increase in plasma concentration may be small or quite large ( 8 fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA ) .
In addition , certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers .
An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy .
The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme ( quinidine ; cimetidine ) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 ( many other antidepressants , phenothiazines , and the Type 1 C antiarrhythmics , propafenone and flecainide ) .
While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , and paroxetine , inhibit P450 2D6 , they may vary in the extent of inhibition .
The extent to which SSRI - TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved .
Nevertheless , caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other .
Of particular importance , sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine , given the long half - life of the parent and active metabolite ( at least 5 weeks may be necessary ) .
Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug .
Furthermore , whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co - therapy , an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required .
It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be coadministered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6 .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established ( see BOX WARNINGS and WARNINGS – Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ) .
Anyone considering the use of protriptyline hydrochloride in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of protriptyline did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
( see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Epic Pharma , LLC at 1 - 888 - 374 - 2791 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Within each category the following adverse reactions are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Included in the listing are a few adverse reactions which have not been reported with this specific drug .
However , the pharmacological similarities among the tricyclic antidepressant drugs require that each of the reactions be considered when protriptyline is administered .
Protriptyline is more likely to aggravate agitation and anxiety and produce cardiovascular reactions such as tachycardia and hypotension .
Cardiovascular : Myocardial infarction ; stroke ; heart block ; arrhythmias ; hypotension , particularly orthostatic hypotension ; hypertension ; tachycardia ; palpitation .
Psychiatric : Confusional states ( especially in the elderly ) with hallucinations , disorientation , delusions , anxiety , restlessness , agitation ; hypomania ; exacerbation of psychosis ; insomnia , panic , and nightmares .
Neurological : Seizures ; incoordination ; ataxia ; tremors ; peripheral neuropathy ; numbness , tingling , and paresthesias of extremities ; extrapyramidal symptoms ; drowsiness ; dizziness ; weakness and fatigue ; headache ; syndrome of inappropriate ADH ( antidiuretic hormone ) secretion ; tinnitus ; alteration in EEG patterns .
Anticholinergic Paralytic ileus ; hyperpyrexia ; urinary retention , delayed micturition , dilatation of the urinary tract ; constipation ; blurred vision , disturbance of accommodation , increased intraocular pressure , mydriasis ; dry mouth and rarely associated sublingual adenitis .
Allergic Drug fever ; petechiae , skin rash , urticaria , itching , photosensitization ( avoid excessive exposure to sunlight ) ; edema ( general , or of face and tongue ) .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ; bone marrow depression ; leukopenia ; thrombocytopenia ; purpura ; eosinophilia .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and vomiting ; anorexia ; epigastric distress ; diarrhea ; peculiar taste ; stomatitis ; abdominal cramps ; black tongue .
Endocrine : Impotence , increased or decreased libido ; gynecomastia in the male ; breast enlargement and galactorrhea in the female ; testicular swelling ; elevation or depression of blood sugar levels .
Other : Jaundice ( simulating obstructive ) ; altered liver function ; parotid swelling ; alopecia ; flushing ; weight gain or loss ; urinary frequency , nocturia ; perspiration .
Withdrawal Symptoms : Though not indicative of addiction , abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged therapy may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
OVERDOSAGE Deaths may occur from overdosage with this class of drugs .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate tricyclic antidepressant overdose .
As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity develop rapidly after tricyclic antidepressant overdose , therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
MANIFESTATIONS Critical manifestations of overdosage include : cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions , and CNS depression , including coma .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic antidepressant toxicity .
Other signs of overdose may include : confusion , disturbed concentration , transient visual hallucinations , dilated pupils , agitation , hyperactive reflexes , stupor , drowsiness , muscle rigidity , vomiting , hypothermia , hyperpyrexia , or any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
MANAGEMENT General Obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ’ s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
A minimum of six hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is required .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose .
These patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of a tricyclic antidepressant overdose should receive gastro - intestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage .
Emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mmHg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions , and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in tricyclic antidepressant poisoning .
CNS In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines or , if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in close consultation with a poison control center .
PSYCHIATRIC FOLLOW - UP : Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
PEDIATRIC MANAGEMENT The principles of management of child and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased gradually , noting carefully the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance .
Usual Adult Dosage Fifteen to 40 mg a day divided into 3 or 4 doses .
If necessary , dosage may be increased to 60 mg a day .
Dosages above this amount are not recommended .
Increases should be made in the morning dose .
Adolescent and Elderly Patients In general , lower dosages are recommended for these patients .
Five mg 3 times a day may be given initially , and increased gradually if necessary .
In elderly patients , the cardiovascular system must be monitored closely if the daily dose exceeds 20 mg .
When satisfactory improvement has been reached , dosage should be reduced to the smallest amount that will maintain relief of symptoms .
Minor adverse reactions require reduction in dosage .
Major adverse reactions or evidence of hypersensitivity require prompt discontinuation of the drug .
The safety and effectiveness of protriptyline in pediatric patients have not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED Protriptyline Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 5 mg are dark orange , round biconvex , film coated tablets , de - bossed “ Є96 ” on one side , and plain on the other side , available in bottles of 30 ( NDC : 42806 - 096 - 30 ) , in bottles of 100 ( NDC : 42806 - 096 - 01 ) and in bottles of 1000 ( NDC : 42806 - 096 - 10 ) .
Protriptyline Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 10 mg are light orange , round biconvex , film coated tablets , de - bossed “ Є97 ” on one side , and plain on the other side , available in bottles of 30 ( NDC : 42806 - 097 - 30 ) , in bottles of 100 ( NDC : 42806 - 097 - 01 ) and in bottles of 1000 ( NDC : 42806 - 097 - 10 ) .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
METABOLISM Metabolic studies indicate that protriptyline is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly sequestered in tissues .
Relatively low plasma levels are found after administration , and only a small amount of unchanged drug is excreted in the urine of dogs and rabbits .
Preliminary studies indicate that demethylation of the secondary amine moiety occurs to a significant extent , and that metabolic transformation probably takes place in the liver .
It penetrates the brain rapidly in mice and rats , and moreover that which is present in the brain is almost all unchanged drug .
Studies on the disposition of radioactive protriptyline in human test subjects showed significant plasma levels within 2 hours , peaking at 8 to 12 hours , then declining gradually .
Urinary excretion studies in the same subjects showed significant amounts of radioactivity in 2 hours .
The rate of excretion was slow .
Cumulative urinary excretion during 16 days accounted for approximately 50 % of the drug .
The fecal route of excretion did not seem to be important .
Medication Guide Protriptyline Hydrochloride Tablets , USP Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with you or your family member ’ s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ’ s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
• Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults when the medicine is first started .
• Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is first started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about your symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood • visual problems : eye pain , changes in vision , swelling or redness in or around the eye What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
• Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Visual problems . Only some people are at risk for these problems .
You may want to undergo an eye examination to see if you are at risk and receive preventative treatment if you are .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ' s healthcare provider for more information .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for all antidepressants .
These are not all the possible side effects .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Epic Pharma , LLC at 1 - 888 - 374 - 2791 .
Manufactured by : Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 Made in USA Rev . 05 - 2020 - 00 MF096REV05 / 20 OE1049 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Protriptyline Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 5 mg - 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Protriptyline Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 10 mg - 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
