( Sterile ) Rx only DESCRIPTION : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment USP is a multiple dose anti - infective steroid combination in a sterile ointment for topical application .
The active ingredient dexamethasone , is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H29FO5 Mol .
Wt .
392 . 47 Chemical Name : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Neomycin Sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent to not less than 600 micrograms of neomycin base per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B Sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each Gram Contains : ACTIVES : Neomycin Sulfate ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin ) , Polymyxin B Sulfate , equal to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units ; Dexamethasone 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) .
INACTIVES : White Petrolatum , Lanolin , Mineral Oil .
PRESERVATIVES ADDED : Methylparaben 0 . 05 % , Propylparaben 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Corticoids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow the healing .
Since corticoids may inhibit the body ' s defense mechanism against infections , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
When a decision to administer both a corticoid and an antimicrobial is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of both drugs is administered , plus assured compatibility of ingredients when both types of drugs are in the same formulation and , particularly , that the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration , and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists .
Ocular steroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of steroid use in certain cases of infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical radiation or thermal burns ; or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye .
The particular anti - infective drugs in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens , and Streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
Mycobacterial infection of the eye .
Fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Hypersensitivity to a component of the medication .
( Hypersensitivity to the antibiotic component occurs at a higher rate than for other components . )
WARNINGS : NOT FOR INJECTION .
Do not touch tube tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
Prolonged use may result in glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Products containing neomycin sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
Employment of steroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex requires great caution .
PRECAUTIONS : General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 8 grams should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged steroid dosing .
Information for Patients : Do not touch tube tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Neomycin , Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Neomycin , Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment , is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component , the anti - infective component , or the combination .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations .
The reactions due to the steroid component are : elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Secondary Infection : The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials .
Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroids .
The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used .
Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a small amount into the conjunctival sac ( s ) up to three or four times daily , or may be used adjunctively with Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Suspension at bedtime .
How to apply Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment : 1 .
Tilt your head back .
2 .
Place a finger on your cheek just under your eye and gently pull down until a " V " pocket is formed between your eyeball and your lower lid .
3 .
Place a small amount ( about 1 / 2 inch ) of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment in the " V " pocket .
Do not let the tip of the tube touch your eye .
4 .
Look downward before closing your eye .
Not more than 8 grams should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
HOW SUPPLIED : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment USP is supplied in an ophthalmic tube in the following size : 3 . 5 gram tube – Prod .
No . 04034 Storage : Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
DO NOT USE IF CAP AND NECKRING ARE NOT INTACT .
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Revised November 2007 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9114000 ( Folded ) 9114100 ( Flat ) Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 13985 - 014 - 35 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Ointment USP STERILE Rx only apexa Net Wt .
3 . 5 g [ MULTIMEDIA ]
