DESCRIPTION Dipyridamole is a coronary vasodilator described as 2 , 6 bis - ( diethanolamino ) - 4 , 8 - dipiperidino - pyrimido - ( 5 , 4 - d ) pyrimidine .
It has the molecular formula C24H40N8O4 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] M . W . 504 . 64 Dipyridamole injection is an odorless , pale yellow liquid which can be diluted in sodium chloride injection or dextrose injection for intravenous administration .
Each mL of sterile solution for intravenous administration contains 5 mg dipyridamole , with 2 mg tartaric acid , and 50 mg polyethylene glycol 600 .
pH is adjusted to 2 . 2 to 3 . 2 with hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In a study of 10 patients with angiographically normal or minimally stenosed ( less than 25 % luminal diameter narrowing ) coronary vessels , dipyridamole in a dose of 0 . 56 mg / kg infused over 4 minutes resulted in an average fivefold increase in coronary blood flow velocity compared to resting coronary flow velocity ( range 3 . 8 to 7 times resting velocity ) .
The mean time to peak flow velocity was 6 . 5 minutes from the start of the 4 - minute infusion ( range 2 . 5 to 8 . 7 minutes ) .
Cardiovascular responses to the intra venous administration of dipyridamole when given to patients in the supine position include a mild but significant increase in heart rate of approximately 20 % and mild but significant decreases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure of approximately 2 to 8 % , with vital signs returning to baseline values in approximately 30 minutes .
Mechanism of Action : Dipyridamole is a coronary vasodilator in man .
The mechanism of vasodilation has not been fully elucidated , but may result from inhibition of uptake of adenosine , an important mediator of coronary vasodilation .
The vasodilatory effects of dipyridamole are abolished by administration of the adenosine receptor antagonist theophylline .
How dipyridamole - induced vasodilation leads to abnormalities in thallium distribution and ventricular function is also uncertain but presumably represents a “ steal ” phenomenon in which relatively intact vessels dilate , and sustain enhanced flow , leaving reduced pressure and flow across areas of hemodynamically important coronary vascular constriction .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Plasma dipyridamole concentrations decline in a triexponential fashion following intravenous infusion of dipyridamole , with half - lives averaging 3 to 12 minutes , 33 to 62 minutes , and 11 . 6 to 15 hours .
Two minutes following a 0 . 568 mg / kg dose of intravenous dipyridamole administered as a 4 - minute infusion , the mean dipyridamole serum concentration is 4 . 6 ± 1 . 3 mcg / mL .
The average plasma protein binding of dipyridamole is approximately 99 % , primarily to α1 - glycoprotein .
Dipyridamole is metabolized in the liver to the glucuronic acid conjugate and excreted with the bile .
The average total body clearance is 2 . 3 to 3 . 5 mL / min / kg , with an apparent volume of distribution at steady state of 1 to 2 . 5 L / kg and a central apparent volume of 3 to 5 liters .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dipyridamole injection is indicated as an alternative to exercise in thallium myocardial perfusion imaging for the evaluation of coronary artery disease in patients who cannot exercise adequately .
In a study of about 1100 patients who underwent coronary arteriography and dipyridamole injection assisted thallium imaging , the results of both tests were interpreted blindly and the sensitivity and specificity of the dipyridamole thallium study in predicting the angiographic outcome were calculated .
The sensitivity of the dipyridamole test ( true positive dipyridamole divided by the total number of patients with positive angiography ) was about 85 % .
The specificity ( true negative divided by the number of patients with negative angiograms ) was about 50 % .
In a subset of patients who had exercise thallium imaging as well as dipyridamole thallium imaging , sensitivity and specificity of the two tests was almost identical .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to dipyridamole .
WARNINGS Serious adverse reactions associated with the administration of intravenous dipyridamole have included cardiac death , fatal and non - fatal myocardial infarction , ventricular fibrillation , symptomatic ventricular tachycardia , stroke , transient cerebral ischemia , seizures , anaphylactoid reaction and bronchospasm .
There have been reported cases of asystole , sinus node arrest , sinus node depression and conduction block .
Patients with abnormalities of cardiac impulse formation / conduction or severe coronary artery disease may be at increased risk for these events .
In a study of 3911 patients given intravenous dipyridamole as an adjunct to thallium myocardial perfusion imaging , two types of serious adverse events were reported : 1 ) four cases of myocardial infarction ( 0 . 1 % ) , two fatal ( 0 . 05 % ) ; and two non - fatal ( 0 . 05 % ) ; and 2 ) six cases of severe bronchospasm ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Although the incidence of these serious adverse events was small ( 0 . 3 % , 10 of 3911 ) , the potential clinical information to be gained through use of intravenous dipyridamole thallium imaging ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE noting the rate of false positive and false negative results ) must be weighed against the risk to the patient .
Patients with a history of unstable angina may be at a greater risk for severe myocardial ischemia .
Patients with a history of asthma may be at a greater risk for bronchospasm during dipyridamole use .
When thallium myocardial perfusion imaging is performed with intravenous dipyridamole , parenteral aminophylline should be readily available for relieving adverse events such as bronchospasm or chest pain .
Vital signs should be monitored during , and for 10 to 15 minutes following , the intravenous infusion of dipyridamole and an electrocardiographic tracing should be obtained using at least one chest lead .
Should severe chest pain or bronchospasm occur , parenteral aminophylline may be administered by slow intravenous injection ( 50 to 100 mg over 30 to 60 seconds ) in doses ranging from 50 to 250 mg .
In the case of severe hypotension , the patient should be placed in a supine position with the head tilted down if necessary , before administration of parenteral aminophylline .
If 250 mg of aminophylline does not relieve chest pain symptoms within a few minutes , sublingual nitroglycerin may be administered .
If chest pain continues despite use of aminophylline and nitroglycerin , the possibility of myocardial infarction should be considered .
If the clinical condition of a patient with an adverse event permits a one minute delay in the administration of parenteral aminophylline , thallium - 201 may be injected and allowed to circulate for one minute before the injection of aminophylline .
This will allow initial thallium perfusion imaging to be performed before reversal of the pharmacologic effects of dipyridamole on the coronary circulation .
PRECAUTIONS See WARNINGS Drug Interactions : Oral maintenance theophylline and other xanthine derivatives such as caffeine may abolish the coronary vasodilatation induced by intravenous dipyridamole administration .
This could lead to a false negative thallium imaging result ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Mechanism of Action ) .
Myasthenia gravis patients receiving therapy with cholinesterase inhibitors may experience worsening of their disease in the presence of dipyridamole .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In studies in which dipyridamole was administered in the feed at doses of up to 75 mg / kg / day ( 9 . 4 times * the maximum recommended daily human oral dose ) in mice ( up to 128 weeks in males and up to 142 weeks in females ) and rats ( up to 111 weeks in males and females ) , there was no evidence of drug related carcinogenesis .
Mutagenicity tests of dipyridamole with bacterial and mammalian cell systems were negative .
There was no evidence of impaired fertility when dipyridamole was administered to male and female rats at oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ( 63 times * the maximum recommended daily human oral dose ) .
A significant reduction in number of corpora lutea with consequent reduction in implantations and live fetuses was , however , observed at 1250 mg / kg / day .
* Calculation based on assumed body weight of 50 kg .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies performed in mice and rats at daily oral doses of up to 125 mg / kg ( 15 . 6 times * the maximum recommended daily human oral dose ) and in rabbits at daily oral doses of up to 20 mg / kg ( 2 . 5 times * the maximum recommended daily human oral dose ) have revealed no evidence of impaired embryonic development due to dipyridamole .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human responses , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
* Calculation based on assumed body weight of 50 kg .
Nursing Mothers : Dipyridamole is excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction information concerning intravenous dipyridamole is derived from a study of 3911 patients in which intravenous dipyridamole was used as an adjunct to thallium myocardial perfusion imaging and from spontaneous reports of adverse reactions and the published literature .
Serious adverse events ( cardiac death , fatal and non - fatal myocardial infarction , ventricular fibrillation , asystole , sinus node arrest , symptomatic ventricular tachycardia , stroke , transient cerebral ischemia , seizures , anaphylactoid reaction and bronchospasm ) are described above ( see WARNINGS ) .
In the study of 3911 patients , the most frequent adverse reactions were : chest pain / angina pectoris ( 19 . 7 % ) , electrocardiographic changes ( most commonly ST - T changes ) ( 15 . 9 % ) , headache ( 12 . 2 % ) , and dizziness ( 11 . 8 % ) .
Adverse reactions occurring in greater than 1 % of the patients in the study are shown in the following table : Incidence ( % ) of Drug - Related Adverse Events Chest pain / angina pectoris 19 . 7 Headache 12 . 2 Dizziness 11 . 8 Electrocardiographic Abnormalities / ST - T changes 7 . 5 Electrocardiographic Abnormalities / Extrasystoles 5 . 2 Hypotension 4 . 6 Nausea 4 . 6 Flushing 3 . 4 Electrocardiographic Abnormalities / Tachycardia 3 . 2 Dyspnea 2 . 6 Pain Unspecified 2 . 6 Blood Pressure Lability 1 . 6 Hypertension 1 . 5 Paresthesia 1 . 3 Fatigue 1 . 2 Less common adverse reactions occurring in 1 % or less of the patients within the study included : Cardiovascular System : Electrocardiographic abnormalities unspecified ( 0 . 8 % ) , arrhythmia unspecified ( 0 . 6 % ) , palpitation ( 0 . 3 % ) , ventricular tachycardia ( 0 . 2 % see WARNINGS ) , bradycardia ( 0 . 2 % ) , myocardial infarction ( 0 . 1 % see WARNINGS ) , AV block ( 0 . 1 % ) , syncope ( 0 . 1 % ) , orthostatic hypotension ( 0 . 1 % ) , atrial fibrillation ( 0 . 1 % ) , supraventricular tachycardia ( 0 . 1 % ) , ventricular arrhythmia unspecified ( 0 . 03 % see WARNINGS ) , heart block unspecified ( 0 . 03 % ) , cardiomyopathy ( 0 . 03 % ) , edema ( 0 . 03 % ) .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : Hypothesia ( 0 . 5 % ) , hypertonia ( 0 . 3 % ) , nervousness / anxiety ( 0 . 2 % ) , tremor ( 0 . 1 % ) , abnormal coordination ( 0 . 03 % ) , somnolence ( 0 . 03 % ) , dysphonia ( 0 . 03 % ) , migraine ( 0 . 03 % ) , vertigo ( 0 . 03 % ) .
Gastrointestinal System : Dyspepsia ( 1 % ) , dry mouth ( 0 . 8 % ) , abdominal pain ( 0 . 7 % ) , flatulence ( 0 . 6 % ) , vomiting ( 0 . 4 % ) , eructation ( 0 . 1 % ) , dysphagia ( 0 . 03 % ) , tenesmus ( 0 . 03 % ) , appetite increased ( 0 . 03 % ) .
Respiratory System : Pharyngitis ( 0 . 3 % ) , bronchospasm ( 0 . 2 % see WARNINGS ) , hyperventilation ( 0 . 1 % ) , rhinitis ( 0 . 1 % ) , coughing ( 0 . 03 % ) , pleural pain ( 0 . 03 % ) .
Other : Myalgia ( 0 . 9 % ) , back pain ( 0 . 6 % ) , injection site reaction unspecified ( 0 . 4 % ) , diaphoresis ( 0 . 4 % ) , asthenia ( 0 . 3 % ) , malaise ( 0 . 3 % ) , arthralgia ( 0 . 3 % ) , injection site pain ( 0 . 1 % ) , rigor ( 0 . 1 % ) , earache ( 0 . 1 % ) , tinnitus ( 0 . 1 % ) , vision abnormalities unspecified ( 0 . 1 % ) , dysgeusia ( 0 . 1 % ) , thirst ( 0 . 03 % ) , depersonalization ( 0 . 03 % ) , eye pain ( 0 . 03 % ) , renal pain ( 0 . 03 % ) , perineal pain ( 0 . 03 % ) , breast pain ( 0 . 03 % ) , intermittent claudication ( 0 . 03 % ) , leg cramping ( 0 . 03 % ) .
In additional postmarketing experience , there have been rare reports of allergic reaction including urticaria , pruritus , dermatitis and rash .
OVERDOSAGE No cases of overdosage in humans have been reported .
It is unlikely that overdosage will occur because of the nature of use ( i . e . , single intravenous administration in controlled settings ) .
See WARNINGS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of intravenous dipyridamole as an adjunct to thallium myocardial perfusion imaging should be adjusted according to the weight of the patient .
The recommended dose is 0 . 142 mg / kg / minute ( 0 . 57 mg / kg total ) infused over 4 minutes .
Although the maximum tolerated dose has not been determined , clinical experience suggests that a total dose beyond 60 mg is not needed for any patient .
Prior to intravenous administration , dipyridamole injection should be diluted in at least a 1 : 2 ratio with sodium chloride injection , 0 . 45 % ; sodium chloride injection , 0 . 9 % ; or dextrose injection , 5 % for a total volume of approximately 20 to 50 mL .
Infusion of undiluted dipyridamole may cause local irritation .
Thallium - 201 should be injected within 5 minutes following the 4 - minute infusion of dipyridamole .
Do not mix dipyridamole injection with other drugs in the same syringe or infusion container .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Dipyridamole Injection , is available in 2 mL and 10 mL ampules : 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg per mL ) Box of 10 ( List 2043 ) .
50 mg / 10 mL ( 5 mg per mL ) Box of 10 ( List 2043 ) .
Store between 15 ° C ( 59 ° F ) − 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Protect from direct light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Avoid freezing .
© Hospira 2004 EN - 0451 Printed in USA HOSPIRA , INC . , LAKE FOREST , IL 60045 USA
