DESCRIPTION Sectral ( acebutolol HCl ) is a selective , hydrophilic beta - adrenoreceptor blocking agent with mild intrinsic sympathomimetic activity for use in treating patients with hypertension and ventricular arrhythmias .
It is marketed in capsule form for oral administration .
Sectral capsules are provided in two dosage strengths which contain 200 or 400 mg of acebutolol as the hydrochloride salt .
The inactive ingredients present are D & C Red 22 , FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Yellow 6 , gelatin , povidone , starch , stearic acid , and titanium dioxide .
The 200 mg dosage strength also contains D & C Red 28 and the 400 mg dosage strength also contains FD & C Red 40 .
Acebutolol HCl has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acebutolol HCl is a white or slightly off - white powder freely soluble in water , and less soluble in alcohol .
Chemically it is defined as the hydrochloride salt of ( ± ) N - [ 3 - Acetyl - 4 - [ 2 - hydroxy - 3 - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] propoxy ] phenyl ] butanamide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sectral is a cardioselective , β - adrenoreceptor blocking agent , which possesses mild intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( ISA ) in its therapeutically effective dose range .
Pharmacodynamics β1 - cardioselectivity has been demonstrated in experimental animal studies .
In anesthetized dogs and cats , Sectral is more potent in antagonizing isoproterenol - induced tachycardia ( β1 ) than in antagonizing isoproterenol - induced vasodilatation ( β2 ) .
In guinea pigs and cats , it is more potent in antagonizing this tachycardia than in antagonizing isoproterenol - induced bronchodilatation ( β2 ) .
ISA of Sectral has been demonstrated in catecholamine - depleted rats by tachycardia induced by intravenous administration of this agent .
A membrane - stabilizing effect has been detected in animals , but only with high concentrations of Sectral .
Clinical studies have demonstrated β1 - blocking activity at the recommended doses by : a ) reduction in the resting heart rate and decrease in exercise - induced tachycardia ; b ) reduction in cardiac output at rest and after exercise ; c ) reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressures at rest and postexercise ; d ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia .
The β1 - selectivity of Sectral has also been demonstrated on the basis of the following vascular and bronchial effects : Vascular Effects : Sectral has less antagonistic effects on peripheral vascular β2 - receptors at rest and after epinephrine stimulation than nonselective β - antagonists .
Bronchial Effects : In single - dose studies in asthmatics examining effects of various beta - blockers on pulmonary function , low doses of acebutolol produce less evidence of bronchoconstriction and less reduction of beta2 agonist , bronchodilating effects , than nonselective agents like propranolol but more than atenolol .
ISA has been observed with Sectral in man , as shown by a slightly smaller ( about 3 beats per minute ) decrease in resting heart rate when compared to equivalent β - blocking doses of propranolol , metoprolol or atenolol .
Chronic therapy with Sectral induced no significant alteration in the blood lipid profile .
Sectral has been shown to delay AV conduction time and to increase the refractoriness of the AV node without significantly affecting sinus node recovery time , atrial refractory period , or the HV conduction time .
The membrane - stabilizing effect of Sectral is not manifest at the doses used clinically .
Significant reductions in resting and exercise heart rates and systolic blood pressures have been observed 1 . 5 hours after Sectral administration with maximal effects occurring between 3 and 8 hours postdosing in normal volunteers .
Sectral has demonstrated a significant effect on exercise - induced tachycardia 24 to 30 hours after drug administration .
There are significant correlations between plasma levels of acebutolol and both the reduction in resting heart rate and the percent of β - blockade of exercise - induced tachycardia .
The antihypertensive effect of Sectral has been shown in double - blind controlled studies to be superior to placebo and similar to propranolol and hydrochlorothiazide .
In addition , patients responding to Sectral administered twice daily had a similar response whether the dosage regimen was changed to once daily administration or continued on a b . i . d . regimen .
Most patients responded to 400 to 800 mg per day in divided doses .
The antiarrhythmic effect of Sectral was compared with placebo , propranolol , and quinidine .
Compared with placebo , Sectral significantly reduced mean total ventricular ectopic beats ( VEB ) , paired VEB , multiform VEB , R - on - T beats , and ventricular tachycardia ( VT ) .
Both Sectral and propranolol significantly reduced mean total and paired VEB and VT .
Sectral and quinidine significantly reduced resting total and complex VEB ; the antiarrhythmic efficacy of Sectral was also observed during exercise .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Sectral is well absorbed from the GI tract .
It is subject to extensive first - pass hepatic biotransformation , with an absolute bioavailability of approximately 40 % for the parent compound .
The major metabolite , an N - acetyl derivative ( diacetolol ) , is pharmacologically active .
This metabolite is equipotent to Sectral and in cats is more cardioselective than Sectral ; therefore , this first - pass phenomenon does not attenuate the therapeutic effect of Sectral .
Food intake does not have a significant effect on the area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of Sectral although the rate of absorption and peak concentration decreased slightly .
The plasma elimination half - life of Sectral is approximately 3 to 4 hours , while that of its metabolite , diacetolol , is 8 to 13 hours .
The time to reach peak concentration for Sectral is 2 . 5 hours and for diacetolol , after oral administration of Sectral , 3 . 5 hours .
Within the single oral dose range of 200 to 400 mg , the kinetics are dose proportional .
However , this linearity is not seen at higher doses , probably due to saturation of hepatic biotransformation sites .
In addition , after multiple dosing the lack of linearity is also seen by AUC increases of approximately 100 % as compared to single oral dosing .
Elimination via renal excretion is approximately 30 % to 40 % and by nonrenal mechanisms 50 % to 60 % , which includes excretion into the bile and direct passage through the intestinal wall .
Sectral has a low binding affinity for plasma proteins ( about 26 % ) .
Sectral and its metabolite , diacetolol , are relatively hydrophilic and , therefore , only minimal quantities have been detected in the cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) .
Drug interaction studies with tolbutamide and warfarin indicated no influence on the therapeutic effects of these compounds .
Digoxin and hydrochlorothiazide plasma levels were not affected by concomitant Sectral administration .
The kinetics of Sectral were not significantly altered by concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide , hydralazine , sulfinpyrazone , or oral contraceptives .
In patients with renal impairment , there is no effect on the elimination half - life of Sectral , but there is decreased elimination of the metabolite , diacetolol , resulting in a two - to three - fold increase in its half - life .
For this reason , the drug should be administered with caution in patients with renal insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Sectral and its major metabolite are dialyzable .
Sectral crosses the placental barrier and is secreted in breast milk .
In geriatric patients , the bioavailability of Sectral and its metabolite is increased , approximately two - fold , probably due to decreases in the first - pass metabolism and renal function in the elderly .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Sectral is indicated for the management of hypertension in adults .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide - type diuretics .
Ventricular Arrhythmias Sectral is indicated in the management of ventricular premature beats ; it reduces the total number of premature beats , as well as the number of paired and multiform ventricular ectopic beats , and R - on - T beats .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sectral is contraindicated in : 1 ) persistently severe bradycardia ; 2 ) second - and third - degree heart block ; 3 ) overt cardiac failure ; and 4 ) cardiogenic shock .
( See WARNINGS . )
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by β - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
Although β - blockers should be avoided in overt cardiac failure , Sectral can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are controlled with digitalis and / or diuretics .
Both digitalis and Sectral impair AV conduction .
If cardiac failure persists , therapy with Sectral should be withdrawn .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure In patients with aortic or mitral valve disease or compromised left ventricular function , continued depression of the myocardium with β - blocking agents over a period of time may lead to cardiac failure .
At the first signs of failure , patients should be digitalized and / or be given a diuretic and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues despite adequate digitalization and / or diuretic , Sectral therapy should be withdrawn .
Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain β - blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease , exacerbation of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and death have been reported .
Therefore , such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without a physician ’ s advice .
Even in the absence of overt ischemic heart disease , when discontinuation of Sectral is planned , the patient should be carefully observed , and should be advised to limit physical activity to a minimum while Sectral is gradually withdrawn over a period of about two weeks .
( If therapy with an alternative β - blocker is desired , the patient may be transferred directly to comparable doses of another agent without interruption of β - blocking therapy . )
If an exacerbation of angina pectoris occurs , antianginal therapy should be restarted immediately in full doses and the patient hospitalized until his condition stabilizes .
Peripheral Vascular Disease Treatment with β - antagonists reduces cardiac output and can precipitate or aggravate the symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral or mesenteric vascular disease .
Caution should be exercised with such patients , and they should be observed closely for evidence of progression of arterial obstruction .
Bronchospastic Disease PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE A β - BLOCKER .
Because of its relative β1 - selectivity , however , low doses of Sectral may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or who cannot tolerate , alternative treatment .
Since β1 - selectivity is not absolute and is dose - dependent , the lowest possible dose of Sectral should be used initially , preferably in divided doses to avoid the higher plasma levels associated with the longer dose - interval .
A bronchodilator , such as theophylline or a β2 - stimulant , should be made available in advance with instructions concerning its use .
Anesthesia and Major Surgery The necessity , or desirability , of withdrawal of a - blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial .
- adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
While this might be of benefit in preventing arrhythmic response , the risk of excessive myocardial depression during general anesthesia may be enhanced and difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heart beat has been reported with beta - blockers .
If treatment is continued , particular care should be taken when using anesthetic agents which depress the myocardium , such as ether , cyclopropane , and trichlorethylene , and it is prudent to use the lowest possible dose of Sectral .
Sectral , like other - blockers , is a competitive inhibitor of - receptor agonists , and its effect on the heart can be reversed by cautious administration of such agents ( e . g . , dobutamine or isoproterenol — see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Manifestations of excessive vagal tone ( e . g . , profound bradycardia , hypotension ) may be corrected Diabetes and Hypoglycemia β - blockers may potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and mask some of its manifestations such as tachycardia ; however , dizziness and sweating are usually not significantly affected .
Diabetic patients should be warned of the possibility of masked hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis β - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Abrupt withdrawal of β - blockade may precipitate a thyroid storm ; therefore , patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom Sectral therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely .
PRECAUTIONS Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Impaired Renal or Hepatic Function Studies on the effect of acebutolol in patients with renal insufficiency have not been performed in the U . S . Foreign published experience shows that acebutolol has been used successfully in chronic renal insufficiency .
Acebutolol is excreted through the GI tract , but the active metabolite , diacetolol , is eliminated predominantly by the kidney .
There is a linear relationship between renal clearance of diacetolol and creatinine clearance .
Therefore , the daily dose of acebutolol should be reduced by 50 % when the creatinine clearance is less than 50 mL / min and by 75 % when it is less than 25 mL / min .
Sectral should be used cautiously in patients with impaired hepatic function .
Sectral has been used successfully and without problems in elderly patients in the U . S . clinical trials without specific adjustment of dosage .
However , elderly patients may require lower maintenance doses because the bioavailability of both Sectral and its metabolite are approximately doubled in this age group .
Information for Patients Patients , especially those with evidence of coronary artery disease , should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of Sectral therapy without a physician ’ s supervision .
Although cardiac failure rarely occurs in properly selected patients , those being treated with β - adrenergic blocking agents should be advised to consult a physician if they develop signs or symptoms suggestive of impending CHF , or unexplained respiratory symptoms .
Patients should also be warned of possible severe hypertensive reactions from concomitant use of α - adrenergic stimulants , such as the nasal decongestants commonly used in OTC cold preparations and nasal drops .
Clinical Laboratory Findings Sectral ® , like other β - blockers , has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies ( ANA ) .
In prospective clinical trials , patients receiving Sectral had a dose - dependent increase in the development of positive ANA titers , and the overall incidence was higher than that observed with propranolol .
Symptoms ( generally persistent arthralgias and myalgias ) related to this laboratory abnormality were infrequent ( less than 1 % with both drugs ) .
Symptoms and ANA titers were reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
Drug Interactions : Catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine , may have an additive effect when given with β - blocking agents .
Patients treated with Sectral plus catecholamine depletors should , therefore , be observed closely for evidence of marked bradycardia or hypotension which may present as vertigo , syncope / presyncope , or orthostatic changes in blood pressure without compensatory tachycardia .
Exaggerated hypertensive responses have been reported from the combined use of β - adrenergic antagonists and α - adrenergic stimulants , including those contained in proprietary cold remedies and vasoconstrictive nasal drops .
Patients receiving β - blockers should be warned of this potential hazard .
Blunting of the antihypertensive effect of beta - adrenoceptor blocking agents by nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs has been reported .
No significant interactions with digoxin , hydrochlorothiazide , hydralazine , sulfinpyrazone , oral contraceptives , tolbutamide , or warfarin have been observed .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Chronic oral toxicity studies in rats and mice , employing dose levels as high as 300 mg / kg / day , which is equivalent to 15 times the maximum recommended ( 60 kg ) human dose , did not indicate a carcinogenic potential for Sectral .
Diacetolol , the major metabolite of Sectral in man , was without carcinogenic potential in rats when tested at doses as high as 1800 mg / kg / day .
Sectral and diacetolol were also shown to be devoid of mutagenic potential in the Ames Test .
Sectral , administered orally to two generations of male and female rats at doses of up to 240 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to 12 times the maximum recommended therapeutic dose in a 60 - kg human ) and diacetolol , administered to two generations of male and female rats at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day , had no significant impact on reproductive performance or fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed with Sectral in rats ( up to 630 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( up to 135 mg / kg / day ) .
These doses are equivalent to approximately 31 . 5 and 6 . 8 times the maximum recommended therapeutic dose in a 60 - kg human , respectively .
The compound was not teratogenic in either species .
In the rabbit , however , doses of 135 mg / kg / day caused slight fetal growth retardation ; this effect was considered to be a result of maternal toxicity , as evidenced by reduced food intake , a lowered rate of body weight gain , and mortality .
Studies have also been performed in these species with diacetolol ( at doses of up to 450 mg / kg / day in rabbits and up to 1800 mg / kg / day in rats ) .
Other than a significant elevation in postimplantation loss with 450 mg / kg / day diacetolol , a level at which food consumption and body weight gain were reduced in rabbit dams and a nonstatistically significant increase in incidence of bilateral cataract in rat fetuses from dams treated with 1800 mg / kg / day diacetolol , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled trials in pregnant women .
Because animal teratology studies are not always predictive of the human response , Sectral should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Studies in humans have shown that both acebutolol and diacetolol cross the placenta .
Neonates of mothers who have received acebutolol during pregnancy have reduced birth weight , decreased blood pressure , and decreased heart rate .
In the newborn the elimination half - life of acebutolol was 6 to 14 hours , while the half - life of diacetolol was 24 to 30 hours for the first 24 hours after birth , followed by a half - life of 12 to 16 hours .
Adequate facilities for monitoring these infants at birth should be available .
Labor and Delivery The effect of Sectral on labor and delivery in pregnant women is unknown .
Studies in animals have not shown any effect of Sectral on the usual course of labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Acebutolol and diacetolol also appear in breast milk with a milk : plasma ratio of 7 . 1 and 12 . 2 , respectively .
Use in nursing mothers is not recommended .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Sectral and other reported clinical experience is inadequate to determine whether there are differences in safety or effectiveness between patients above or below age 65 .
Elderly subjects evidence greater bioavailability of acebutolol ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY — Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) , presumably because of age - related reduction in first - pass metabolism and renal function .
Therefore , it may be appropriate to start elderly patients at the low end of the dosing range ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION — Use in Older Patients ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sectral is well tolerated in properly selected patients .
Most adverse reactions have been mild , not required discontinuation of therapy , and tended to decrease as duration of treatment increases .
The following table shows the frequency of treatment - related side effects derived from controlled clinical trials in patients with hypertension , angina pectoris , and arrhythmia .
These patients received Sectral , propranolol , or hydrochlorothiazide as monotherapy , or placebo .
TOTAL VOLUNTEERED AND ELICITED ( U . S . STUDIES ) Body System / Adverse Reaction SECTRAL ( N = 1002 ) % Propranolol ( N = 424 ) % Hydrochloro - thiazide ( N = 178 ) % Placebo ( N = 314 ) % Cardiovascular Chest Pain 2 4 4 1 Edema 2 2 4 1 Central Nervous System Depression 2 1 3 1 Dizziness 6 7 12 2 Fatigue 11 17 10 4 Headache 6 9 13 4 Insomnia 3 6 5 1 Abnormal dreams 2 3 0 1 Dermatologic Rash 2 2 4 1 Gastrointestinal Constipation 4 2 7 0 Diarrhea 4 5 5 1 Dyspepsia 4 6 3 1 Flatulence 3 4 7 1 Nausea 4 6 3 0 Genitourinary Micturition ( frequency ) 3 1 9 < 1 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 2 1 3 2 Myalgia 2 1 4 0 Respiratory Cough 1 1 2 0 Dyspnea 4 6 4 2 Rhinitis 2 1 4 < 1 Special Senses Abnormal Vision 2 2 3 0 The following selected ( potentially important ) side effects were seen in up to 2 % of Sectral patients : Cardiovascular : hypotension , bradycardia , heart failure .
Central Nervous System : anxiety , hyper / hypoesthesia , impotence .
Dermatological : pruritus .
Gastrointestinal : vomiting , abdominal pain .
Genitourinary : dysuria , nocturia .
Liver and Biliary System : A small number of cases of liver abnormalities ( increased SGOT , SGPT , LDH ) have been reported in association with acebutolol therapy .
In some cases increased bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase , fever , malaise , dark urine , anorexia , nausea , headache , and / or other symptoms have been reported .
In some of the reported cases , the symptoms and signs were confirmed by rechallenge with acebutolol .
The abnormalities were reversible upon cessation of acebutolol therapy .
Musculoskeletal : back pain , joint pain .
Respiratory : pharyngitis , wheezing .
Special Senses : conjunctivitis , dry eye , eye pain .
Autoimmune : In extremely rare instances , systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
The incidence of drug - related adverse effects ( volunteered and solicited ) according to Sectral dose is shown below .
( Data from 266 hypertensive patients treated for 3 months on a constant dose . )
Body System 400 mg / day ( N = 132 ) 800 mg / day ( N = 63 ) 1200 mg / day ( N = 71 ) Cardiovascular 5 % 2 % 1 % Gastrointestinal 3 % 3 % 7 % Musculoskeletal 2 % 3 % 4 % Central Nervous System 9 % 13 % 17 % Respiratory 1 % 5 % 6 % Skin 1 % 2 % 1 % Special Senses 2 % 2 % 6 % Genitourinary 2 % 3 % 1 % Potential Adverse Events In addition , certain adverse effects not listed above have been reported with other β - blocking agents and should also be considered as potential adverse effects of Sectral .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ( an acute syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place ) , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance ( neuropsychometrics ) .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Allergic : Erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic , and thrombocytopenic purpura .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis and ischemic colitis .
Miscellaneous : Reversible alopecia and Peyronie ’ s disease .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the β - blocker practolol has not been reported with Sectral during investigational use and extensive foreign clinical experience .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information on emergency treatment of overdosage is available for Sectral .
However , overdosage with other β - blocking agents has been accompanied by extreme bradycardia , advanced atrioventricular block , intraventricular conduction defects , hypotension , severe congestive heart failure , seizures , and in susceptible patients , bronchospasm and hypoglycemia .
Although specific information on the emergency treatment of Sectral overdose is not available , on the basis of the pharmacological actions and the observations in treating overdoses with other β - blockers , the following general measures should be considered : • Empty stomach by emesis or lavage .
• Bradycardia : IV atropine ( 1 to 3 mg in divided doses ) .
If antivagal response is inadequate , administer isoproterenol cautiously since larger than usual doses of isoproterenol may be required .
• Persistent hypotension in spite of correction of bradycardia : Administer vasopressor ( e . g . , epinephrine , levarterenol , dopamine , or dobutamine ) with frequent monitoring of blood pressure and pulse rate .
• Bronchospasm : A theophylline derivative , such as aminophylline and / or parenteral β2 - stimulant , such as terbutaline .
• Cardiac failure : Digitalize the patient and / or administer a diuretic .
It has been reported that glucagon is useful in this situation .
Sectral is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The initial dosage of Sectral in uncomplicated mild - to - moderate hypertension is 400 mg .
This can be given as a single daily dose , but in occasional patients twice daily dosing may be required for adequate 24 - hour blood - pressure control .
An optimal response is usually achieved with dosages of 400 to 800 mg per day , although some patients have been maintained on as little as 200 mg per day .
Patients with more severe hypertension or who have demonstrated inadequate control may respond to a total of 1200 mg daily ( administered b . i . d . ) , or to the addition of a second antihypertensive agent .
Beta - 1 selectivity diminishes as dosage is increased .
Ventricular Arrhythmia The usual initial dose of Sectral is 400 mg daily given as 200 mg b . i . d . Dosage should be increased gradually until an optimal clinical response is obtained , generally at 600 to 1200 mg per day .
If treatment is to be discontinued , the dosage should be reduced gradually over a period of about two weeks .
Use in Older Patients Older patients have an approximately 2 - fold increase in bioavailability and may require lower maintenance doses .
Doses above 800 mg / day should be avoided in the elderly .
HOW SUPPLIED Sectral ® ( acebutolol HCl ) is available in the following dosage strengths : 200 mg , opaque purple and orange capsule marked " RP 700 " and " Sectral ® 200 " NDC 67857 - 700 - 01 , in bottles of 100 capsules .
400 mg , opaque brown and orange capsule marked " RP 701 " and " Sectral ® 400 " NDC 67857 - 701 - 01 , in bottles of 100 capsules .
Keep tightly closed Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Protect from light Dispense in a light - resistant , tight container Use carton to protect contents from light Distributed by : Promius Pharma , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Manufactured by : PATHEON , Puerto Rico , Inc .
Manatí , Puerto Rico 00674 , USA Revised April 2008 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC - 67857 - 700 - 01 100 Capsules SECTRAL ® ( acebutolol HCL ) equivalent to 200 mg acebutolol SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION Rx only PROMIUS PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
