Active Ingredient Drug Facts Menthol 2 . 5 % Purpose Topical analgesic Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental ingestion .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses Temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes or mucus membranes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • excessive skin irritation occurs • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Directions • use only as directed • adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store between 59 ° and 86 ° F ( 15 ° and 30 ° C ) • close cap tightly after use • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients camphor , carbomer , DMDM hydantoin , PEG - 40 hydrogenated castor oil , isopropyl alcohol , stearic acid , glyceryl monostearate , purified water , sodium hydroxide .
Product Label DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS Ultra Strength Muscle Rub Pain Relieving Cream Analgesic Relieves minor • Arthritis • Backache • Muscle pain • Joint pain Fast penetrating Long lasting NET WT .
1 . 5 OZ .
( 42 g ) DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS delivers outstanding quality in healthcare products , at truly amazing prices .
We employ the highest standard when searching the world to bring the best value to your doorstep .
Use our products confidently , knowing that attention and care has gone into every item .
That ' s smart wellness !
Distributed by : PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS , LLC Troy , Michigan 48084 U . S . A . Code No .
MH / DRUGS / KD - 313 Made in India [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
