DESCRIPTION PROFENAL ® ( suprofen ) 1 % ophthalmic solution is a topical nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory product for ophthalmic use .
Suprofen chemically is α - methyl - 4 - ( 2 - thienylcarbonyl ) benzeneacetic acid , with an empirical formula of C14H12O3S , and a molecular weight of 260 . 3 .
The chemical structure of suprofen is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PROFENAL Sterile Ophthalmic Solution contains suprofen 1 . 0 % ( 10 mg / mL ) , thimerosal 0 . 005 % ( 0 . 05 mg / mL ) , caffeine 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) , edetate disodium , dibasic sodium phosphate , monobasic sodium phosphate , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH to 7 . 4 ) and purified water .
DM - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Suprofen is one of a series of phenylalkanoic acids that have shown analgesic , antipyretic , and anti - inflammatory activity in animal inflammatory diseases .
Its mechanism of action is believed to be through inhibition of the cyclooxygenase enzyme that is essential in the biosynthesis of prostaglandins .
Prostaglandins have been shown in many animal models to be mediators of certain kinds of intraocular inflammation .
In studies performed on animal eyes , prostaglandins have been shown to produce disruption of the blood - aqueous humor barrier , vasodilatation , increased vascular permeability , leukocytosis , and increased intraocular pressure .
Prostaglandins appear to play a role in the miotic response produced during ocular surgery by constricting the iris sphincter independently of cholinergic mechanisms .
In clinical studies , PROFENAL has been shown to inhibit the miosis induced during the course of cataract surgery .
PROFENAL could possibly interfere with the miotic effect of intraoperatively administered acetylcholine chloride .
Results from clinical studies indicate that PROFENAL Ophthalmic Solution has no significant effect on intraocular pressure .
There are no data available on the systemic absorption of ocularly applied suprofen .
The oral dose of suprofen is 200 mg every four to six hours .
If PROFENAL 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is applied as two drops ( 1 mg suprofen ) to one eye five times on the day prior to surgery and three times on the day of surgery , the total applied dose over the two days would be about 25 times less than a single 200 mg oral dose .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROFENAL Ophthalmic Solution is indicated for inhibition of intraoperative miosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PROFENAL is contraindicated in epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) and in individuals hypersensitive to any component of the medication .
WARNINGS The potential exists for cross sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Therefore , caution should be used when treating individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs .
With nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , the potential exists for increased bleeding time due to interference with thrombocyte aggregation .
There have been reports that ocularly applied nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs may cause increased bleeding tendency of ocular tissues in conjunction with ocular surgery .
PRECAUTIONS General Use of oral suprofen has been associated with a syndrome of acute flank pain and generally reversible renal insufficiency , which may present as acute uric acid nephropathy .
This syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 3500 patients and has been reported with as few as one to two doses of a 200 mg capsule .
If PROFENAL 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is applied as two drops ( 1 mg suprofen ) to one eye five times on the day prior to surgery and three times on the day of surgery , the total applied dose over the two days would be about 25 times less than a single 200 mg oral dose .
Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Ocular Patients with histories of herpes simplex keratitis should be monitored closely .
PROFENAL is contraindicated in patients with active herpes simplex keratitis .
The possibility of increased ocular bleeding during surgery associated with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs should be considered .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In an 18 - month study in mice , an increased incidence of benign hepatomas occurred in females at a dose of 40 mg / kg / day .
Male mice , treated at doses of 2 , 5 , 10 and 40 mg / kg / day , also had an increased incidence of hepatomas when compared to control animals .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was found in long term studies in doses as high as 40 mg / kg / day in the rat and mouse .
Based on a battery of mutagenicity tests ( Ames , micronucleus , and dominant lethal ) , suprofen does not appear to have mutagenic potential .
Reproductive studies in rats at a dose of up to 40 mg / kg / day revealed no impairment of fertility and only slight reductions of fertility at doses of 80 mg / kg / day .
However , testicular atrophy / hypoplasia was observed in a six - month dog study ( at 80 mg / kg / day ) and a 12 - month rat study ( at 40 mg / kg / day ) .
Pregnancy Category C Reproductive studies have been performed in rabbits at doses up to 200 mg / kg / day and in rats at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day .
In rats , doses of 40 mg / kg / day and above , and in rabbits , doses of 80 mg / kg / day and above , resulted in an increased incidence of fetal resorption associated with maternal toxicity .
There was an increase in stillbirths and a decrease in postnatal survival in pregnant rats treated with suprofen at 2 . 5 mg / kg / day and above .
An increased incidence of delayed parturition occurred in rats .
As there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Because of the known effect of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of ductus arteriosus ) , use during late pregnancy should be avoided .
Nursing Mothers Suprofen is excreted in human milk after a single oral dose .
Based on measurements of plasma and milk levels in women taking oral suprofen , the milk concentration is about 1 % of the plasma level .
Because systemic absorption may occur from topical ocular administration , a decision should be considered to discontinue nursing while receiving PROFENAL ® , since the safety of suprofen in human neonates has not been established .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Drug Interactions Clinical studies with acetylcholine chloride revealed no interference , and there is no known pharmacological basis for such an interaction .
However , with other topical nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory products , there have been reports that acetylcholine chloride and carbachol have been ineffective when used in patients treated with these agents .
Interaction of PROFENAL with other topical ophthalmic medications has not been fully investigated .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular The most frequent adverse reactions reported are burning and stinging of short duration .
Instances of discomfort , itching and redness have been reported .
Other reactions occurring in less than 0 . 5 % of patients include allergy , iritis , pain , chemosis , photophobia , irritation , and punctate epithelial staining .
Systemic Systemic reactions related to therapy were not reported in the clinical studies .
It is known that some systemic absorption does occur with ocularly applied drugs , and that nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs have been shown to increase bleeding time by interference with thrombocyte aggregation .
It is recommended that PROFENAL be used with caution in patients with bleeding tendencies and those taking anticoagulants .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage will not ordinarily cause acute problems .
If accidentally ingested , drink fluids to dilute .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION On the day of surgery , instill two drops into the conjunctival sac at three , two and one hour prior to surgery .
Two drops may be instilled into the conjunctival sac every four hours , while awake , the day preceding surgery .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile ophthalmic solution , 2 . 5 mL in plastic DROP - TAINER ® dispensers .
2 . 5 mL NDC 0065 - 0348 - 25 STORAGE : Store at room temperature .
Rx Only U . S . Patents Nos . 4 , 035 , 376 ; 4 , 559 , 343 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Printed in USA 343005 - 0798 Revised : July 1998 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
