WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil tablets as soon as possible ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 ) .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil tablets as soon as possible ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 ) .
RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) 11 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Olmesartan medoxomil tablet is an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) indicated for the treatment of hypertension , alone or with other antihypertensive agents , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ) .
Olmesartan medoxomil is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting dose Dose Range Adult Hypertension ( 2 . 1 ) 20 mg once daily 20 to 40 mg once daily Pediatric Hypertension ( 6 to 16 years ) ( 2 . 2 ) 20 to < 35 kg 10 mg once daily ≥ 35 kg 20 mg once daily 20 to < 35 kg 10 to 20 mg once daily ≥ 35 kg 20 to 40 mg once daily • Olmesartan medoxomil tablets may be administered with or without food .
• If blood pressure is not controlled by olmesartan medoxomil tablets alone , a diuretic may be added .
Olmesartan medoxomil tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
2 . 1 Adult Hypertension Dosage must be individualized .
The usual recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablet is 20 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume - contracted .
For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of therapy , the dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablet may be increased to 40 mg .
Doses above 40 mg do not appear to have greater effect .
Twice - daily dosing offers no advantage over the same total dose given once daily .
No initial dosage adjustment is recommended for elderly patients , for patients with moderate to marked renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min ) or with moderate to marked hepatic dysfunction [ seeWARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) , USEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) andCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For patients with possible depletion of intravascular volume ( e . g . , patients treated with diuretics , particularly those with impaired renal function ) , initiate olmesartan medoxomil tablets under close medical supervision and give consideration to use of a lower starting dose [ seeWARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Olmesartan medoxomil tablets may be administered with or without food .
If blood pressure is not controlled by olmesartan medoxomil tablets alone , a diuretic may be added .
Olmesartan medoxomil tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
2 . 2 Pediatric Hypertension ( 6 to 16 years of age ) Dosage must be individualized .
For children who can swallow tablets , the usual recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablet is 10 mg once daily for patients who weigh 20 to < 35 kg ( 44 to 77 lb ) , or 20 mg once daily for patients who weigh ≥ 35 kg .
For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of therapy , the dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablet may be increased to a maximum of 20 mg once daily for patients who weigh < 35 kg or 40 mg once daily for patients who weigh ≥ 35 kg .
Children < 1 year of age must not receive olmesartan medoxomil tablets for hypertension .
For children who cannot swallow tablets , the same dose can be given using an extemporaneous suspension as described below [ seeCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Follow the suspension preparation instructions below to administer olmesartan medoxomil tablets as a suspension .
PreparationofSuspension ( for200mLofa2mg / mLsuspension ) Add 50 mL of Purified Water to an amber polyethylene terephthalate ( PET ) bottle containing twenty olmesartan medoxomil 20 mg tablets and allow to stand for a minimum of 5 minutes .
Shake the container for at least 1 minute and allow the suspension to stand for at least 1 minute .
Repeat 1 - minute shaking and 1 - minute standing for four additional times .
Add 100 mL of Ora - Sweet ® * and 50 mL of Ora - Plus ® * to the suspension and shake well for at least 1 minute .
The suspension should be refrigerated at 2 to 8 ° C ( 36 to 46 ° F ) and can be stored for up to 4 weeks .
Shake the suspension well before each use and return promptly to the refrigerator .
* Ora - Sweet ® and Ora - Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories , Inc .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 5 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg ( 3 ) .
• 5 mg light yellow , round , film - coated , non - scored tablets debossed with ' LU ' on one side and ' A81 ' on the other side .
• 20 mg white to off - white , round , film - coated , non - scored tablets debossed with ' LU ' on one side and ' A82 ' on the other side .
• 40 mg white to off - white , oval film - coated , non - scored tablets debossed with ' LU ' on one side and ' A83 ' on the other side .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co - administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablet in patients with diabetes [ seeDRUGINTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Avoid fetal ( in utero ) exposure ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Children < 1 year of age must not receive olmesartan medoxomil tablets for hypertension ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume - or salt - depleted patients with treatment initiation ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Sprue - like enteropathy has been reported .
Consider discontinuation of olmesartan medoxomil tablets in cases where no other etiology is found ( 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity PregnancyCategoryD Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil tablets as soon as possible [ seeUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Morbidity in Infants Children < 1 year of age must not receive olmesartan medoxomil tablets for hypertension .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin aldosterone system ( RAAS ) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [ seeUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin aldosterone system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with olmesartan medoxomil tablets .
Initiate treatment under close medical supervision .
If hypotension does occur , place the patient in the supine position and , if necessary , give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with olmesartan medoxomil tablets .
In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , patients with severe congestive heart failure ) , treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death .
Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil tablets [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , DRUGINTERACTIONS ( 7 ) , USEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) andCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) have been reported .
There has been no long - term use of olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , but similar results may be expected .
5 . 5 Sprue - like Enteropathy Severe , chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation .
Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy .
If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan , exclude other etiologies .
Consider discontinuation of olmesartan medoxomil tablets in cases where no other etiology is identified .
5 . 6 Electrolyte Imbalances Olmesartan medoxomil tablet contains olmesartan , a drug that inhibits the renin - angiotensin system ( RAS ) .
Drugs that inhibit the RAS can cause hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness ( 3 % ) ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
AdultHypertension Olmesartan medoxomil tablet has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients / subjects , including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials .
This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year .
Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil tablet was well tolerated , with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo .
Events generally were mild , transient and had no relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablet .
The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose - related .
Analysis of gender , age and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil tablet and placebo - treated patients .
The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2 . 4 % ( i . e . , 79 / 3278 ) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil tablet and 2 . 7 % ( i . e . , 32 / 1179 ) of control patients .
In placebo - controlled trials , the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1 % of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil tablet and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness ( 3 % vs . 1 % ) .
The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo - controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1 % of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil tablets , but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo : back pain , bronchitis , creatine phosphokinase increased , diarrhea , headache , hematuria , hyperglycemia , hypertriglyceridemia , influenza - like symptoms , pharyngitis , rhinitis and sinusitis .
The incidence of cough was similar in placebo ( 0 . 7 % ) and olmesartan medoxomil tablets ( 0 . 9 % ) patients .
Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0 . 5 % , whether or not attributed to treatment , in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil tablets monotherapy in controlled or open - label trials are listed below .
BodyasaWhole : Chest pain , peripheral edema CentralandPeripheralNervousSystem : Vertigo Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , dyspepsia , gastroenteritis , nausea HeartRateandRhythmDisorders : Tachycardia MetabolicandNutritionalDisorders : Hypercholesterolemia , hyperlipemia , hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , arthritis , myalgia SkinandAppendages : Rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil tablets .
Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists .
LaboratoryTestFindings In controlled clinical trials , clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of olmesartan medoxomil tablets .
HemoglobinandHematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ( mean decreases of approximately 0 . 3 g / dL and 0 . 3 volume percent , respectively ) were observed .
LiverFunctionTests : Elevations of liver enzymes and / or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently .
Five patients ( 0 . 1 % ) assigned to olmesartan medoxomil tablets and one patient ( 0 . 2 % ) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries ( transaminases or total bilirubin ) .
Of the five olmesartan medoxomil tablet patients , three had elevated transaminases , which were attributed to alcohol use , and one had a single elevated bilirubin value , which normalized while treatment continued .
PediatricHypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to 16 years and that previously reported for adult patients .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
BodyasaWhole Asthenia , angioedema , anaphylactic reactions Gastrointestinal Vomiting , sprue - like enteropathy [ seeWARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] MetabolicandNutritionalDisorders Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal Rhabdomyolysis UrogenitalSystem Acute renal failure , increased blood creatinine levels SkinandAppendages Alopecia , pruritus , urticaria Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high - dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular ( CV ) risk in diabetic patients , but the overall data are not conclusive .
The randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind ROADMAP trial ( Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial , n = 4447 ) examined the use of olmesartan , 40 mg daily , vs . placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , normoalbuminuria , and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease .
The trial met its primary endpoint , delayed onset of microalbuminuria , but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) .
There was a finding of increased CV mortality ( adjudicated sudden cardiac death , fatal myocardial infarction , fatal stroke , revascularization death ) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group ( 15 olmesartan vs . 3 placebo , HR 4 . 9 , 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] , 1 . 4 , 17 ) , but the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan ( HR 0 . 64 , 95 % CI 0 . 35 , 1 . 18 ) .
The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300 , 000 patient - years .
In the sub - group of diabetic patients receiving high - dose olmesartan ( 40 mg / d ) for > 6 months , there appeared to be an increased risk of death ( HR 2 . 0 , 95 % CI 1 . 1 , 3 . 8 ) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers .
In contrast , high - dose olmesartan use in non - diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death ( HR 0 . 46 , 95 % CI 0 . 24 , 0 . 86 ) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers .
No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months .
Overall , these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high - dose olmesartan in diabetic patients .
There are , however , concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk , notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non - diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7 ) .
• Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) .
• Colesevelam hydrochloride : Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7 ) .
• Lithium : Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity ( 7 ) .
No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil tablets were co - administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers .
The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co - administration of antacids [ Al ( OH ) 3 / Mg ( OH ) 2 ] .
Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes ; thus , interactions with drugs that inhibit , induce , or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected .
Non - SteroidalAnti - InflammatoryAgentsincludingSelectiveCyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
DualBlockadeoftheRenin - AngiotensinSystem ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil tablets and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablet in patients with diabetes [ seeCONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
ColesevelamHydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan .
Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect .
Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [ seeCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Choose to discontinue nursing or drug ( 8 . 3 ) .
• In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - or salt - depletion , renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) blockers such as olmesartan medoxomil can cause excessive hypotension .
In susceptible patients , e . g . , with renal artery stenosis , RAAS blockers can cause renal failure ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) .
• Geriatrics : No overall difference in efficacy or safety vs . younger adult patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out ( 8 . 5 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil tablets as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil tablets , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to olmesartan medoxomil tablets for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia [ seeUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether olmesartan is excreted in human milk , but olmesartan is secreted at low concentration in the milk of lactating rats .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use NeonateswithaHistoryofinUteroExposuretoOlmesartanMedoxomilTablets If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
The antihypertensive effects of olmesartan medoxomil tablets were evaluated in one randomized , double - blind clinical study in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age [ seeCLINICALSTUDIES ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan medoxomil tablets were evaluated in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years of age [ seeCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Olmesartan medoxomil tablet was generally well tolerated in pediatric patients , and the adverse experience profile was similar to that described for adults .
Olmesartan medoxomil tablet has not been shown to be effective for hypertension in children < 6 years of age .
Children < 1 year of age must not receive olmesartan medoxomil tablet for hypertension [ seeWARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The renin - angiotensin aldosterone system ( RAAS ) plays a critical role in kidney development .
RAAS blockade has been shown to lead to abnormal kidney development in very young mice .
Administering drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin aldosterone system ( RAAS ) can alter normal renal development .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of hypertensive patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil tablet in clinical studies , more than 20 % were 65 years of age and over , while more than 5 % were 75 years of age and older .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between elderly patients and younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) andCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Increases in AUC0 to ∞ and Cmax were observed in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those in matched controls , with an increase in AUC of about 60 % .
No initial dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with moderate to marked hepatic dysfunction [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) andCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Patients with renal insufficiency have elevated serum concentrations of olmesartan compared to subjects with normal renal function .
After repeated dosing , the AUC was approximately tripled in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 20 mL / min ) .
No initial dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with moderate to marked renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min ) [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , WARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) andCLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Black Patients The antihypertensive effect of olmesartan medoxomil tablet was smaller in black patients ( usually a low - renin population ) , as has been seen with ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers and other angiotensin receptor blockers .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could be encountered if parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation occurs .
If symptomatic hypotension occurs , initiate supportive treatment .
The dialyzability of olmesartan is unknown .
11 DESCRIPTION Olmesartan medoxomil , a prodrug , is hydrolyzed to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
Olmesartan is a selective AT1 subtype angiotensin II receptor antagonist .
Olmesartan medoxomil is described chemically as 1 H - Imidazole - 5 - carboxylic acid , 4 - ( 1 - hydroxy - l - methyl - ethyl ) - 2 - propyl - l - [ [ 2 ' - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) [ 1 , 1 ' - biphenyl ] - 4 - yl ] methyl - , ( 5 - methyl - 2 - oxo - 1 , 3 - dioxol - 4 - yl ) methyl ester .
Its empirical formula is C29H30N6O6 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Olmesartan medoxomil is a white to almost white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 558 . 59 .
It is practically insoluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol .
Olmesartan medoxomil is available for oral use as film - coated tablets containing 5 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil and the following inactive ingredients : hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , titanium dioxide , and ( 5 mg only ) yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Olmesartan blocks the vasoconstrictor effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in vascular smooth muscle .
Its action is , therefore , independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
An AT2 receptor is found also in many tissues , but this receptor is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Olmesartan has more than a 12 , 500 - fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is a mechanism of many drugs used to treat hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because olmesartan medoxomil does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and circulating angiotensin II levels do not overcome the effect of olmesartan on blood pressure .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Olmesartan medoxomil doses of 2 . 5 mg to 40 mg inhibit the pressor effects of angiotensin I infusion .
The duration of the inhibitory effect was related to dose , with doses of olmesartan medoxomil > 40 mg giving > 90 % inhibition at 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations of angiotensin I and angiotensin II and plasma renin activity ( PRA ) increase after single and repeated administration of olmesartan medoxomil to healthy subjects and hypertensive patients .
Repeated administration of up to 80 mg olmesartan medoxomil had minimal influence on aldosterone levels and no effect on serum potassium .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Olmesartan medoxomil is rapidly and completely bioactivated by ester hydrolysis to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
Olmesartan medoxomil tablets and the suspension formulation prepared from olmesartan medoxomil tablets are bioequivalent [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
The absolute bioavailability of olmesartan is approximately 26 % .
After oral administration , the peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of olmesartan is reached after 1 to 2 hours .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of olmesartan .
Distribution The volume of distribution of olmesartan is approximately 17 L . Olmesartan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( 99 % ) and does not penetrate red blood cells .
The protein binding is constant at plasma olmesartan concentrations well above the range achieved with recommended doses .
In rats , olmesartan crossed the blood - brain barrier poorly , if at all .
Olmesartan passed across the placental barrier in rats and was distributed to the fetus .
Olmesartan was distributed to milk at low levels in rats .
MetabolismandExcretion Following the rapid and complete conversion of olmesartan medoxomil to olmesartan during absorption , there is virtually no further metabolism of olmesartan .
Total plasma clearance of olmesartan is 1 . 3 L / h , with a renal clearance of 0 . 6 L / h .
Approximately 35 % to 50 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in urine while the remainder is eliminated in feces via the bile .
Olmesartan appears to be eliminated in a biphasic manner with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 13 hours .
Olmesartan shows linear pharmacokinetics following single oral doses of up to 320 mg and multiple oral doses of up to 80 mg .
Steady - state levels of olmesartan are achieved within 3 to 5 days and no accumulation in plasma occurs with once - daily dosing .
Geriatric The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan were studied in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) .
Overall , maximum plasma concentrations of olmesartan were similar in young adults and the elderly .
Modest accumulation of olmesartan was observed in the elderly with repeated dosing ; AUCss , τ was 33 % higher in elderly patients , corresponding to an approximate 30 % reduction in CLR [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) andUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan were studied in pediatric hypertensive patients aged 1 to16 years .
The clearance of olmesartan in pediatric patients was similar to that in adult patients when adjusted by the body weight [ seeUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Olmesartan pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age [ seeWARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) andUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Gender Minor differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in women compared to men .
AUC and Cmax were 10 to 15 % higher in women than in men .
HepaticInsufficiency Increases in AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax were observed in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those in matched controls , with an increase in AUC of about 60 % [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) andUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
RenalInsufficiency In patients with renal insufficiency , serum concentrations of olmesartan were elevated compared to subjects with normal renal function .
After repeated dosing , the AUC was approximately tripled in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 20 mL / min ) .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in patients undergoing hemodialysis has not been studied [ seeDOSAGEANDADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , WARNINGSANDPRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) andUSEINSPECIFICPOPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
DrugInteraction BileAcidSequesteringAgentColesevelam : Concomitant administration of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 3750 mg colesevelam hydrochloride in healthy subjects resulted in 28 % reduction in Cmax and 39 % reduction in AUC of olmesartan .
Lesser effects , 4 % and 15 % reduction in Cmax and AUC respectively , were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride [ seeDRUGINTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Olmesartan medoxomil was not carcinogenic when administered by dietary administration to rats for up to 2 years .
The highest dose tested ( 2000 mg / kg / day ) was , on a mg / m2 basis , about 480 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 mg / day .
Two carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice , a 6 - month gavage study in the p53 knockout mouse and a 6 - month dietary administration study in the Hras2 transgenic mouse , at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( about 120 times the MRHD ) , revealed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of olmesartan medoxomil .
Both olmesartan medoxomil and olmesartan tested negative in the invitro Syrian hamster embryo cell transformation assay and showed no evidence of genetic toxicity in the Ames ( bacterial mutagenicity ) test .
However , both were shown to induce chromosomal aberrations in cultured cells invitro ( Chinese hamster lung ) and tested positive for thymidine kinase mutations in the invitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Olmesartan medoxomil tested negative invivo for mutations in the MutaMouse intestine and kidney and for clastogenicity in mouse bone marrow ( micronucleus test ) at oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg ( olmesartan not tested ) .
Fertility of rats was unaffected by administration of olmesartan medoxomil at dose levels as high as 1000 mg / kg / day ( 240 times the MRHD ) in a study in which dosing was begun 2 ( female ) or 9 ( male ) weeks prior to mating .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology ReproductiveToxicologyStudies No teratogenic effects were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered to pregnant rats at oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( 240 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of olmesartan medoxomil on a mg / m2 basis ) or pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 1 mg / kg / day ( half the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ; higher doses could not be evaluated for effects on fetal development as they were lethal to the does ) .
In rats , significant decreases in pup birth weight and weight gain were observed at doses ≥ 1 . 6 mg / kg / day , and delays in developmental milestones ( delayed separation of ear auricula , eruption of lower incisors , appearance of abdominal hair , descent of testes , and separation of eyelids ) and dose - dependent increases in the incidence of dilation of the renal pelvis were observed at doses ≥ 8 mg / kg / day .
The no observed effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats is 0 . 3 mg / kg / day , about one - tenth the MRHD of 40 mg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Adult Hypertension The antihypertensive effects of olmesartan medoxomil have been demonstrated in seven placebo - controlled studies at doses ranging from 2 . 5 mg to 80 mg for 6 to 12 weeks , each showing statistically significant reductions in peak and trough blood pressure .
A total of 2693 patients ( 2145 olmesartan medoxomil ; 548 placebo ) with essential hypertension were studied .
Olmesartan medoxomil once daily lowered diastolic and systolic blood pressure .
The response was dose - related , as shown in the following graph .
A olmesartan medoxomil dose of 20 mg daily produces a trough sitting BP reduction over placebo of about 10 / 6 mmHg and a dose of 40 mg daily produces a trough sitting BP reduction over placebo of about 12 / 7 mmHg .
Olmesartan medoxomil doses greater than 40 mg had little additional effect .
The onset of the antihypertensive effect occurred within 1 week and was largely manifest after 2 weeks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Data above are from seven placebo - controlled studies ( 2145 olmesartan medoxomil patients , 548 placebo patients ) .
The blood pressure lowering effect was maintained throughout the 24 - hour period with olmesartan medoxomil once daily , with trough - to - peak ratios for systolic and diastolic response between 60 and 80 % .
The blood pressure lowering effect of olmesartan medoxomil , with and without hydrochlorothiazide , was maintained in patients treated for up to 1 year .
There was no evidence of tachyphylaxis during long - term treatment with olmesartan medoxomil or rebound effect following abrupt withdrawal of olmesartan medoxomil after 1 year of treatment .
The antihypertensive effect of olmesartan medoxomil was similar in men and women and in patients older and younger than 65 years .
The effect was smaller in black patients ( usually a low - renin population ) , as has been seen with ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers and other angiotensin receptor blockers .
Olmesartan medoxomil had an additional blood pressure lowering effect when added to hydrochlorothiazide .
There are no trials of olmesartan medoxomil demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but at least one pharmacologically similar drug has demonstrated such benefits .
14 . 2 Pediatric Hypertension The antihypertensive effects of olmesartan medoxomil in the pediatric population were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind study involving 302 hypertensive patients aged 6 to 16 years .
The study population consisted of an all black cohort of 112 patients and a mixed racial cohort of 190 patients , including 38 blacks .
The etiology of the hypertension was predominantly essential hypertension ( 87 % of the black cohort and 67 % of the mixed cohort ) .
Patients who weighed 20 to < 35 kg were randomized to 2 . 5 or 20 mg of olmesartan medoxomil once daily and patients who weighed ≥ 35 kg were randomized to 5 or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil once daily .
At the end of 3 weeks , patients were re - randomized to continuing olmesartan medoxomil or to taking placebo for up to 2 weeks .
During the initial dose - response phase , olmesartan medoxomil significantly reduced both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in a weight - adjusted dose - dependent manner .
Overall , the two dose levels of olmesartan medoxomil ( low and high ) significantly reduced systolic blood pressure by 6 . 6 and 11 . 9 mmHg from the baseline , respectively .
These reductions in systolic blood pressure included both drug and placebo effect .
During the randomized withdrawal to placebo phase , mean systolic blood pressure at trough was 3 . 2 mmHg lower and mean diastolic blood pressure at trough was 2 . 8 mmHg lower in patients continuing olmesartan medoxomil than in patients withdrawn to placebo .
These differences were statistically different .
As observed in adult populations , the blood pressure reductions were smaller in black patients .
In the same study , 59 patients aged 1 to 5 years who weighed ≥ 5 kg received 0 . 3 mg / kg of olmesartan medoxomil once daily for three weeks in an open label phase and then were randomized to receiving olmesartan medoxomil or placebo in a double - blind phase .
At the end of the second week of withdrawal , the mean systolic / diastolic blood pressure at trough was 3 / 3 mmHg lower in the group randomized to olmesartan medoxomil ; this difference in blood pressure was not statistically significant ( 95 % C . I . - 2 to 7 / - 1 to 7 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Olmesartan medoxomil tablet is supplied as light yellow , round , film - coated , non - scored tablets containing 5 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , as white to off - white , round , film - coated , non - scored tablets containing 20 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , and as white to off - white , oval , film - coated , non - scored tablets containing 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil .
Tablets are debossed with ' LU ' on one side and A81 , A82 and A83 on the other side of the 5 , 20 , and 40 mg tablets , respectively .
Tablets are supplied as follows : Pack Sizes 5 mg 20 mg 40 mg Bottle of 30 NDC 68180 - 724 - 06 NDC 68180 - 725 - 06 NDC 68180 - 726 - 06 Bottle of 90 NDC 68180 - 724 - 09 NDC 68180 - 725 - 09 NDC 68180 - 726 - 09 Bottle of 300 NDC 68180 - 724 - 17 NDC 68180 - 725 - 17 NDC 68180 - 726 - 17 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Pregnancy Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to olmesartan medoxomil during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
® The brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its products .
RxOnly Manufactured for : LupinPharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : LupinLimited Pithampur ( M . P . ) - 454 775 India April 2017 ID # : 247435 OlmesartanMedoxomilTablets , 5 mg NDC68180 - 724 - 06 30 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] OlmesartanMedoxomilTablets , 20 mg NDC68180 - 725 - 06 30 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] OlmesartanMedoxomilTablets , 40 mg NDC68180 - 726 - 06 30 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
