DESCRIPTION Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each mL contains : Active : tobramycin 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) .
Inactives : boric acid , sodium sulfate , sodium chloride , tyloxapol and purified water .
Sodium hydroxide and / or sulfuric acid ( to adjust pH ) .
Tobramycin ophthalmic solution , 0 . 3 % has a pH range between 7 . 0 and 8 . 0 .
Preservative Added : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical name : ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 S , 5 S , 6 R ) - 4 - amino - 2 - [ ( 1 S , 2 S , 3 R , 4 S , 6 R ) - 4 , 6 - diamino - 3 - [ ( 2 R , 3 R , 5 S , 6 R ) - 3 - amino - 6 - ( aminomethyl ) - 5 - hydroxyoxan - 2 - yl ] oxy - 2 - hydroxycyclohexyl ] oxy - 6 - ( hydroxymethyl ) oxane - 3 , 5 - diol [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A - beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin ophthalmic solution , 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of tobramycin ophthalmic solution .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin ophthalmic solution , 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema , itching , urticaria , skin rash , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reactions , or bullous reactions .
If a sensitivity reaction to tobramycin ophthalmic solution , 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of bacterial ocular infection .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies in 3 types of animals at doses up to 33 times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from tobramycin ophthalmic solution , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 months has not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution , 0 . 3 % are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin ophthalmic solution .
Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions identified from postmarketing use include anaphylactic reaction , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and erythema multiforme .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with systemic aminoglycosides : Neurotoxicity , ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have occurred in patients receiving systemic aminoglycoside therapy .
Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness in patients with known or suspected neuromuscular disorders , such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson ’ s disease , because of their potential effect on neuromuscular function .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease , instill 1 or 2 drops into the affected eye ( s ) every 4 hours .
In severe infections , instill 2 drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 2127 NDC : 50090 - 2127 - 0 5 mL in a BOTTLE , DROPPER / 1 in a CARTON Tobramycin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
