DESCRIPTION Each tablet , for oral administration , contains Orphenadrine Citrate USP , 25 mg or 50 mg , Aspirin USP , 385 mg or 770 mg , Caffeine USP , 30 mg or 60 mg .
Orphenadrine citrate , N , N - Dimethyl - 2 - [ ( o - methyl - α - phenylbenzyl ) oxy ] ethylamine citrate ( 1 : 1 ) , is a centrally acting ( brain stem ) compound .
It occurs as a white , practically odorless , crystalline powder , having a bitter taste .
Its molecular formula is C18H23NO . C6H8O7 with a molecular weight of 461 . 51 .
The structural formula is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Aspirin , salicylic acid acetate , is a non - opiate analgesic , anti - inflammatory and antipyretic agent .
It occurs as a white , crystalline tabular or needle like powder and is odorless or has a faint odor .
Its molecular formula is C9H8O4 , with a molecular weight of 180 . 16 .
The structural formula is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Caffeine , 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethylxanthine , is a central nervous system stimulant which occurs as a white powder or white glistening needles .
It also has a bitter taste .
Its molecular formula is C8H10N4O2 , with a molecular weight of 194 . 19 .
The structural formula is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Yellow No . 10 , anhydrous lactose , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , stearic acid , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Orphenadrine citrate is a centrally acting ( brain stem ) compound which in animals selectively blocks facilitatory functions of the reticular formulation .
Orphenadrine does not produce myoneural block , nor does it affect crossed extensor reflexes .
Orphenadrine prevents nicotine - induced convulsions but not those produced by strychnine .
Chronic administration of Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine to dogs and rats has revealed no drug - related toxicity .
No blood or urine changes were observed , nor were there any macroscopic or microscopic pathological changes detected .
Extensive experience with combinations containing aspirin and caffeine has established them as safe agents .
The addition of orphenadrine citrate does not alter the toxicity of aspirin and caffeine .
The mode of therapeutic action of orphenadrine has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anticholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Symptomatic relief of mild to moderate pain of acute musculoskeletal disorders .
• The orphenadrine component is indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions . The mode of action of orphenadrine has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets do not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Because of the mild anti - cholinergic effect of orphenadrine , Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets should not be used in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , achalasia , prostatic hypertrophy , or obstructions at the bladder neck .
Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets are also contraindicated in patients with myasthenia gravis and in patients known to be sensitive to aspirin or caffeine .
The drug is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Reye ’ s Syndrome may develop in individuals who have chicken pox , influenza , or flu symptoms .
Some studies suggest possible association between the development of Reye ’ s Syndrome and the use of medicines containing salicylate or aspirin .
Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets contain aspirin and therefore are not recommended for use in patients with chicken pox , influenza , or flu symptoms .
Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle : ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Aspirin should be used with extreme caution in the presence of peptic ulcers and coagulation abnormalities .
Usage in Pregnancy Since safety of the use of this preparation in pregnancy , during lactation , or in the child - bearing age has not been established , use of the drug in such patients requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against its possible hazard to the mother and child .
Usage in Children The safe and effective use of this drug in children has not been established .
Usage of this drug in children under 12 years of age is not recommended .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in a few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Safety of continuous long term therapy with Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets has not been established ; therefore , if Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets are prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects of Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets are those seen with aspirin and caffeine or those usually associated with mild anticholinergic agents .
These may include tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , dry mouth , blurred vision , dilation of the pupil , increased intraocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , and rarely , urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of confusion .
Mild central excitation and occasional hallucinations may be observed .
These mild side effects can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
One case of aplastic anemia associated with the use of Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets has been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
Rare G . I . hemorrhage due to aspirin content may be associated with the administration of Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets .
Some patients may experience transient episodes of lightheadedness , dizziness or syncope .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets , 25 mg / 385 mg / 30 mg : Adults 1 to 2 tablets 3 to 4 times daily .
Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets , 50 mg / 770 mg / 60 mg : Adults 1 / 2 to 1 tablet 3 to 4 times daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets , 50 mg / 770 mg / 60 mg are scored , capsule - shaped , layered tablets colored white and green , imprinted SZ 491 and are supplied as : NDC 21695 - 726 - 30 bottles of 30 NDC 21695 - 726 - 45 bottles of 45 Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect from moisture .
Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 50 mg / 770 mg / 60 mg Label Orphenadrine Citrate , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets 50 mg / 770 mg / 60 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
