Rx only Multiple - dose Plastic Vial Multiple - dose LifeShield ® Plastic Vial NOT FOR INHALATION WARNING : NOT FOR USE IN NEONATES .
DESCRIPTION This preparation is designed for parenteral use only after addition of drugs that require dilution or must be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle prior to injection .
Bacteriostatic 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic solution of sodium chloride in water for injection .
Each milliliter ( mL ) contains sodium chloride 9 mg and 0 . 9 % ( 9 mg / mL ) benzyl alcohol added as a bacteriostatic preservative .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
It is supplied in a multiple - dose container from which repeated withdrawals may be made to dilute or dissolve drugs for medication .
The pH is 5 . 0 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by Bacteriostatic 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , when used only as a vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in neonates and very small infants .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Due to the potential toxicity of benzyl alcohol in neonates , solutions containing benzyl alcohol must not be used in this patient population .
Parenteral preparations with benzyl alcohol should not be used for fluid or sodium chloride replacement .
Parenteral preparations containing benzyl alcohol should not be used in epidural or spinal anesthetic procedures .
WARNINGS Benzyl alcohol , a preservative in Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection , USP has been associated with toxicity in neonates .
Data are unavailable on the toxicity of other preservatives in this age group .
Preservative - free Sodium Chloride Injection should be used for flushing intravascular catheters .
Where a sodium chloride solution is required for preparing or diluting medications for use in neonates , only preservative - free Sodium Chloride Injection should be used .
PRECAUTIONS Consult the manufacturer ’ s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Bacteriostatic 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether Bacteriostatic 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Bacteriostatic 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection containing additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
However , due to potential toxicity of benzyl alcohol in neonates , solutions containing benzyl alcohol are contraindicated in this patient population .
Drug Interactions Some drugs for injection may be incompatible in a given vehicle , or when combined in the same vehicle or in a vehicle containing benzyl alcohol .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Use aseptic technique for single or multiple entry and withdrawal from all containers .
When diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use promptly .
Do not store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
Although adverse reactions to intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection of 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol are not known to occur in man , experimental studies of small volume parenteral preparations containing 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol in several species of animals have indicated that an estimated intravenous dose up to 30 mL may be safely given to an adult without toxic effects .
Administration of an estimated 9 mL to a 6 kg neonate or infant is potentially capable of producing blood pressure changes .
OVERDOSAGE Use only as a diluent or solvent .
This parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in neonates and very small infants .
In the event these should occur , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection , is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Bacteriostatic 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is supplied in multiple - dose 10 , 20 and 30 mL plastic fliptop vials ( List No . 1966 ) or in multiple - dose 10 and 30 mL plastic LifeShield ® fliptop vials * ( List No . 1966 ) .
* Intended for use with the LifeShield ® Blunt Cannula .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : April , 2005 © Hospira 2005 EN - 1169 Printed in USA HOSPIRA , INC . , LAKE FOREST , IL 60045 USA Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
