FOR IV USE AFTER DILUTION Rx Only DESCRIPTION MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 4 , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution containing four Trace Elements for use as an additive for Total Parenteral Nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL provides : Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 1 mg , Manganese 25 mcg and Chromium 1 mcg .
Each mL contains : Zinc Sulfate Heptahydrate 4 . 39 mg ( equivalent to 1 mg Zinc ) ; Cupric Sulfate Pentahydrate 0 . 4 mg ( equivalent to 0 . 1 mg Copper ) ; Manganese Sulfate Monohydrate 77 mcg ( equivalent to 25 mcg Manganese ) ; Chromic Chloride Hexahydrate 5 . 12 mcg ( equivalent to 1 mcg Chromium ) ; and Water for Injection , q . s . pH of the solution may have been adjusted with sulfuric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
Preservative Free .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ZINC has been identified as a cofactor for over 70 different enzymes , including carbonic anhydrase , alkaline phosphatase , lactic dehydrogenase and both RNA and DNA polymerase .
Zinc facilitates wound healing , helps maintain normal growth rates , normal skin hydration and senses of taste and smell .
Providing zinc during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : Parakeratosis , hypogeusia , anorexia , dysosmia , geophagia , hypogonadism , growth retardation and hepatosplenomegaly .
At plasma levels below 20 mcg zinc / 100 mL , dermatitis followed by alopecia has been reported for TPN patients .
COPPER is essential as a cofactor for serum ceruloplasmin , an oxidase necessary for proper formation of the iron carrier protein , transferrin .
Copper also helps maintain normal rates of red and white blood cell formation .
Scorbutic type bone changes seen in infants fed exclusively with copper - poor cow ' s milk are believed due to decreased activity of ascorbate oxidase , a cuproenzyme .
Providing copper during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : leukopenia , neutropenia , anemia , depressed ceruloplasmin levels , impaired transferrin formation and secondary iron deficiency .
MANGANESE is an activator for enzymes such as polysaccharide polymerase , liver arginase , cholinesterase and pyruvate carboxylase .
Providing manganese during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : nausea and vomiting , weight loss , dermatitis , and changes in growth and color of hair .
CHROMIUM ( trivalent ) is part of glucose tolerance factor , and activator insulin - mediated reactions .
Chromium helps to maintain normal glucose metabolism and peripheral nerve function .
Providing chromium during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : impaired glucose tolerance , ataxia , peripheral neuropathy , and a confusional state similar to mild / moderate hepatic encephalopathy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This formulation is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN for children up to 11 years of age .
Administration of the solution in TPN solutions helps to maintain plasma levels of zinc , copper , manganese , and chromium and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores of these trace elements and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC should not be given undiluted by direct injection into a peripheral vein because of the potential of infusion phlebitis .
WARNINGS Copper and Manganese are eliminated via the bile .
In patients with severe liver dysfunction and / or biliary tract obstruction , decreasing or omitting copper and manganese supplements entirely may be necessary .
This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Before administering MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC in TPN solutions , the physician must assess the metabolic requirements for trace elements and disease state of the patient .
Frequent determinations of serum levels of the various trace elements are suggested as a guideline for adjusting the dosage or completely omitting the solution .
ZINC is eliminated via the intestine and kidneys .
The possibility of retention should be considered in patients with malfunctioning excretory routes .
COPPER and MANGANESE are eliminated via the bile , therefore , the possibility of the retention of these elements should be considered in patients with biliary obstruction .
Ancillary routes of MANGANESE excretion , however , include pancreatic juice , or reabsorption into the lumen of duodenum , jejunum , or ileum .
In assessing the contribution of CHROMIUM supplements to maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis , consideration should be given to the possibility that the patient may be diabetic , in which case oral or intravenous antidiabetic medication may be indicated .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Safety for use in pregnancy has not been established .
Use of MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC in women of childbearing potential requires that anticipated benefits be weighed against possible hazards .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The amounts of ZINC , COPPER , MANGANESE , AND CHROMIUM in the solution are very small and toxicity symptoms due to these trace elements at suggested dosage levels are considered unlikely to occur .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of ZINC overdose resulting from oral ingestion of Zinc Sulfate in large amounts have resulted in death .
Symptoms included nausea , vomiting , dehydration , electrolyte imbalances , dizziness , abdominal pain , lethargy and incoordination .
Single intravenous doses of 1 to 2 mg zinc / kg body weight have been given to adult leukemia patients without toxic manifestations .
Normal plasma levels for Zinc vary from approximately 88 to 112 mcg / 100 mL .
Plasma levels sufficient to produce symptoms of toxic manifestations are not known .
Calcium supplements may confer a protective effect against Zinc toxicity .
Symptoms of COPPER toxicity reported in literature include prostration , behavior change , diarrhea , progressive marasmus , hypotonia , photophobia and peripheral edema .
D - penicillamine has been reported effective as an antidote .
MANGANESE toxicity has not been reported in patients receiving TPN .
Neither have reports of manganese toxicity from excessive intake in foods and / or beverages been published .
Symptoms of CHROMIUM toxicity include nausea , vomiting , ulcers and gastrointestinal tract , renal and hepatic damage , and abnormalities of the central nervous system culminating in convulsions and coma .
Trivalent Chromium administered intravenously to TPN patients has been shown to be nontoxic when given at dosage levels up to 250 mcg / day for two consecutive weeks .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Each mL of the solution provides Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 1 mg , Manganese 25 mcg , and Chromium 1 mcg , and is administered intravenously only after dilution to a minimum of 1 : 200 .
The suggested dosage ranges for the four trace elements are : ZINC : For full term infants and children , 100 mcg zinc / kg / day is recommended .
For premature infants ( birth weight less than 1500 g ) up to 3 kg in body weight , 300 mcg zinc / kg / day is suggested .
COPPER : For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage level is 20 mcg copper / kg / day .
The normal plasma range for copper is approximately 80 to 160 mcg / 100 mL .
MANGANESE : For pediatric patients , a dosage level of 2 to 10 mcg manganese / kg / day is recommended .
CHROMIUM : For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage level is 0 . 14 to 0 . 20 mcg / kg / day .
Periodic monitoring of plasma levels of Zinc , Copper , Manganese , and Chromium is suggested as a guideline for administration .
Aseptic addition of MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC to parenteral nutrition solutions under a laminar flow hood is recommended .
The trace elements present in MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC are physically compatible with the electrolytes and vitamins usually present in parenteral nutrition formulations .
Do not directly mix ascorbic acid injection with copper or selenium containing parenteral products in the same syringe or vial , as this admixture may cause the formation of an insoluble precipitate .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
HOW SUPPLIED MULTITRACE ® - 4 PEDIATRIC ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 4 , USP ) Each mL provides : Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 1 mg , Manganese 25 mcg , and Chromium 1 mcg .
NDC 0517 - 9203 - 25 3 mL Single Dose Vial Packaged in boxes of 25 AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN9203 Rev . 8 / 18 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container NDC 0517 - 9203 - 25 MULTITRACE - 4 PEDIATRIC ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 4 , USP ) 3 mL SINGLE DOSE VIAL FOR IV USE AFTER DILUTION Rx Only AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton MULTITRACE - 4 PEDIATRIC ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 4 , USP ) NDC 0517 - 9203 - 25 25 x 3 mL SINGLE DOSE VIALS FOR IV USE AFTER DILUTION - PRESERVATIVE FREE Rx Only Each mL provides : Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 1 mg , Manganese 25 mcg and Chromium 1 mcg .
Each mL contains : Zinc Sulfate ( Heptahydrate ) 4 . 39 mg , Cupric Sulfate ( Pentahydrate ) 0 . 4 mg , Manganese Sulfate ( Monohydrate ) 77 mcg , Chromic Chloride ( Hexahydrate ) 5 . 12 mcg and Water for Injection q . s . pH may be adjusted with Sulfuric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
WARNING : DISCARD UNUSED PORTION - USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 Rev . 11 / 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
