Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 15 % , Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % , Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Re - apply after 80 - minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or high and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor Other Information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain fabric Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , C28 - 52 Olefin / Undecylenic Acid Copolymer , Neopentyl Glycol Diheptanoate , Polyglyceryl - 3 Methylglucose Distearate , Tapioca Starch , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - I00 Stearate , Phenethyl Benzoate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Cellulose Gum , Tocopheryl Acetate , Fragrance , Stearic Acid , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Caprylyl Glycol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Stearyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hydroxide , Phenoxyethanol Questions Distributed by Geiss , Destin , & Dunn Inc . , Peach tree City , GA 30269 www . valuelabels . com / 800 - 715 - 3485 * GoodSense ® is a registered trademark of L . Perrigo Company * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , the owner of the registered trademark Coppertone ® Principal Display Panel GOODSENSE SUNSCREEN LOTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 70 • Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) • UVA / UVB Protection • Hypoallergenic Compare to active ingredients of Coppertone 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
