Active Ingredients Avobenzone 1 . 8 % Homosalate 7 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Re - apply after 80 - minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or high and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun May stain fabric and other surfaces Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , Polyglyceryl - 3 Methylglucose Distearate , Cetearyl Alcohol , C28 - 52 Olefin / Undecylenic Acid Copolymer , Tapioca Starch , Dispropyl Adipate , Diheptanoate , Phenethyl Benzoate , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - I00 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Hydronated Palm Glycerides , Trisiloxane , Dimethicone , Caprylyl Glycol , Neopentyl Glycol Diheptanoate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Acrylates / C19 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium Hydroxide , Xanthan Gum , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Tocopheryl Acetate , Disodium EDTA Questions Distributed by Geiss , Destin , & Dunn Inc . , Peach tree City , GA 30269 www . valuelabels . com / 800 - 715 - 3485 GoodSense ® is a registered trademark of L . Perrigo Company * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Edgewell Personal Care Brands , LLC , Distributor of Banana Boat ® Principal Display Panel GOODSENSE SUNSCREEN LOTION SPORT BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 • Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) • UVA / UVB Protection Compare to active ingredients of Banana Boat 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
