1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VISTOGARD ® is indicated for the emergency treatment of adult and pediatric patients : • following a fluorouracil or capecitabine overdose regardless of the presence of symptoms , or • who exhibit early - onset , severe or life - threatening toxicity affecting the cardiac or central nervous system , and / or early - onset , unusually severe adverse reactions ( e . g . , gastrointestinal toxicity and / or neutropenia ) within 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration .
VISTOGARD ® is a pyrimidine analog indicated for the emergency treatment of adult and pediatric patients : • following a fluorouracil or capecitabine overdose regardless of the presence of symptoms , or • who exhibit early - onset , severe or life - threatening toxicity affecting the cardiac or central nervous system , and / or early - onset , unusually severe adverse reactions ( e . g . , gastrointestinal toxicity and / or neutropenia ) within 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration .
( 1 ) Limitations of use : • VISTOGARD is not recommended for the non - emergent treatment of adverse reactions associated with fluorouracil or capecitabine because it may diminish the efficacy of these drugs .
( 1 ) • The safety and efficacy of VISTOGARD initiated more than 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration have not been established .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use • VISTOGARD is not recommended for the non - emergent treatment of adverse reactions associated with fluorouracil or capecitabine because it may diminish the efficacy of these drugs .
• The safety and efficacy of VISTOGARD initiated more than 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration have not been established .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage • Adults : 10 grams ( 1 packet ) orally every 6 hours for 20 doses , without regard to meals .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric : 6 . 2 grams / m2 of body surface area ( not to exceed 10 grams per dose ) orally every 6 hours for 20 doses , without regard to meals .
See the full prescribing information for body surface area - based dosing .
( 2 . 1 ) Preparation and Administration • Pediatric : Measure the dose using either a scale accurate to at least 0 . 1 gram , or a graduated teaspoon accurate to ¼ teaspoon .
( 2 . 1 ) • Mix each VISTOGARD dose with 3 to 4 ounces of soft foods such as applesauce , pudding or yogurt and ingest within 30 minutes of mixing .
Do not chew the VISTOGARD granules .
Drink at least 4 ounces of water .
( 2 . 2 ) • If a patient vomits within 2 hours of taking a dose of VISTOGARD , initiate another complete dose as soon as possible after the vomiting episode .
Administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
( 2 . 2 ) • If a patient misses a dose at the scheduled time , administer that dose of VISTOGARD as soon as possible .
Administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer VISTOGARD via a nasogastric tube ( NG tube ) or gastrostomy tube ( G - Tube ) when necessary ( e . g . , severe mucositis or coma ) .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage • Adults : 10 grams ( 1 packet ) orally every 6 hours for 20 doses , without regard to meals .
Pediatric : 6 . 2 grams / m2 of body surface area ( not to exceed 10 grams per dose ) orally every 6 hours for 20 doses , without regard to meals .
The VISTOGARD dose to be administered at 6 . 2 grams / m2 is presented in Table 1 .
Measure the dose using either a scale accurate to at least 0 . 1 gram , or a graduated teaspoon accurate to ¼ teaspoon .
Discard any unused portion of granules .
Do not use granules left in the open packet for subsequent dosing .
Table 1 VISTOGARD Pediatric Dose Based on Body Surface Area ( m2 ) Patient Body Surface Area ( m2 ) Table 1 VISTOGARD 6 . 2 grams / m2 / dose [ 1 ] Dose in Grams Dose in Graduated Teaspoons 0 . 34 to 0 . 44 2 . 1 to 2 . 7 1 0 . 45 to 0 . 55 2 . 8 to 3 . 4 1 ¼ 0 . 56 to 0 . 66 3 . 5 to 4 . 1 1 ½ 0 . 67 to 0 . 77 4 . 2 to 4 . 8 1 ¾ 0 . 78 to 0 . 88 4 . 9 to 5 . 4 2 0 . 89 to 0 . 99 5 . 5 to 6 . 1 2 ¼ 1 . 00 to 1 . 10 6 . 2 to 6 . 8 2 ½ 1 . 11 to 1 . 21 6 . 9 to 7 . 5 2 ¾ 1 . 22 to 1 . 32 7 . 6 to 8 . 1 3 1 . 33 to 1 . 43 8 . 2 to 8 . 8 3 ¼ 1 . 44 and above [ 2 ] 10 . 0 1 full packet null [ 1 ] Dose by body surface area category in this table was rounded to achieve the approximate dose .
Each dose is administered every 6 hours for 20 doses .
[ 2 ] May use 1 entire 10 g packet without weighing or measuring .
Do not exceed 10 grams / dose .
• Administer VISTOGARD as soon as possible after an overdose or early - onset toxicity within 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration .
• Administer full course of VISTOGARD ( 20 doses ) as directed .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration • Mix each VISTOGARD dose with 3 to 4 ounces of soft foods such as applesauce , pudding or yogurt and ingest within 30 minutes .
Do not chew the VISTOGARD granules .
Drink at least 4 ounces of water .
• If a patient vomits within 2 hours of taking a dose of VISTOGARD , initiate another complete dose as soon as possible after the vomiting episode .
Administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
• If a patient misses a dose at the scheduled time , administer that dose of VISTOGARD as soon as possible .
Administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
• Administer VISTOGARD via a nasogastric tube ( NG tube ) or gastrostomy tube ( G - Tube ) when necessary ( eg , severe mucositis or coma ) .
Follow the instructions below for each dose administration : • Prepare approximately 4 fluid ounces ( about 100 mL ) of a food starch - based thickening product in water and stir briskly until the thickener has dissolved .
• Crush the contents of one full 10 gram packet of VISTOGARD granules to a fine powder .
• Add the crushed VISTOGARD granules to 4 ounces ( about 100 mL ) of the reconstituted food starch - based thickening product .
For pediatric patients receiving less than 10 grams , prepare the mixture at a ratio of no greater than 1 gram per 10 mL of reconstituted food starch - based thickening product and mix thoroughly .
• After administration of the mixture using the NG tube or G - Tube , flush the tube with water .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral granules : 10 grams of orange - flavored , white - to - off - white , oral granules ( 95 % w / w ) in single - dose packets .
Oral granules : 10 gram packets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS None .
None .
( 5 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions occurring in > 2 % of patients receiving VISTOGARD included vomiting , nausea , and diarrhea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation at ( 1 - 800 - 914 - 0071 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions and using a wide range of doses , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of VISTOGARD was assessed in 135 patients ( median age 59 years , 56 % male ) treated in 2 single - arm , open - label , multi - center trials .
VISTOGARD was administered at 10 grams orally every 6 hours for 20 doses or at a body surface area adjusted dosage of 6 . 2 grams / m2 / dose for 20 doses in four patients between 1 and 7 years of age .
The median duration of exposure was 4 . 8 days , with a median of 20 doses ( range 1 to 23 ) .
VISTOGARD was discontinued for adverse reactions in two ( 1 . 4 % ) patients .
Serious adverse reactions and Grade ≥ 3 adverse reactions were seen in one patient receiving VISTOGARD ( Grade 3 nausea and vomiting ) .
Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in greater than 2 % of patients in Studies 1 and 2 combined .
Table 2 Adverse Reactions in > 2 % of Patients Receiving VISTOGARD in Studies 1 and 2 Adverse Reaction N = 135 Patients Vomiting 13 ( 10 % ) Nausea 7 ( 5 % ) Diarrhea 4 ( 3 % ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited case reports of uridine triacetate use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of birth defects and miscarriage .
When administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis , uridine triacetate at doses of one - half the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 grams per day was not teratogenic and did not produce adverse effects on embryo - fetal development [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study , uridine triacetate was administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 2000 mg / kg per day ( about one - half the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 grams per day on a body surface area basis ) .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity or harm to the fetus and no effect on maternal body weight and overall health .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of uridine triacetate in human milk , the effect on the breastfed infant or the effect on milk production .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for VISTOGARD and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from VISTOGARD or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VISTOGARD have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of VISTOGARD in pediatric patients is supported by an open - label clinical study of adults ( Study 1 ) and a second open - label clinical study which included 6 pediatric patients ranging in age from 1 to 16 years ( Study 2 ) .
Four of these pediatric patients were between 1 to 7 years of age and received a body - surface area adjusted dosage of 6 . 2 grams / m2 / dose for 20 doses .
The clinical response and safety in adult and pediatric patients treated with VISTOGARD were similar ; however , clinical data are limited [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 135 patients in clinical studies with VISTOGARD , 30 % were 65 and over , including 11 % that were 75 and over .
Clinical studies of VISTOGARD did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION VISTOGARD oral granules contain the active ingredient uridine triacetate which is a pyrimidine analog .
The chemical name for uridine triacetate is ( 2 ' , 3 ' , 5 ' - tri - O - acetyl - β - D - ribofuranosyl ) - 2 , 4 ( 1 H , 3 H ) - pyrimidinedione .
The molecular weight is 370 . 3 grams / mole and it has an empirical formula of C15H18N2O9 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each single - dose 10 gram packet of VISTOGARD orange - flavored oral granules ( 95 % w / w ) contains 10 grams of uridine triacetate and the following inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose ( 0 . 309 grams ) , Opadry ® Clear [ proprietary dispersion of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and Macrogol ] ( 0 . 077 grams ) , and natural orange juice flavor ( 0 . 131 grams ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Uridine triacetate is an acetylated pro - drug of uridine .
Following oral administration , uridine triacetate is deacetylated by nonspecific esterases present throughout the body , yielding uridine in the circulation .
Uridine competitively inhibits cell damage and cell death caused by fluorouracil .
Fluorouracil is a cytotoxic antimetabolite that interferes with nucleic acid metabolism in normal and cancer cells .
Cells anabolize fluorouracil to the cytotoxic intermediates 5 - fluoro - 2 ' - deoxyuridine - 5 ' - monophosphate ( FdUMP ) and 5 - fluorouridine triphosphate ( FUTP ) .
FdUMP inhibits thymidylate synthase , blocking thymidine synthesis .
Thymidine is required for DNA replication and repair .
Uridine is not found in DNA .
The second source of fluorouracil cytotoxicity is the incorporation of its metabolite , FUTP , into RNA .
This incorporation of FUTP into RNA is proportional to systemic fluorouracil exposure .
Excess circulating uridine derived from VISTOGARD is converted into uridine triphosphate ( UTP ) , which competes with FUTP for incorporation into RNA .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption VISTOGARD delivers 4 - to 6 - fold more uridine into the systemic circulation compared to equimolar doses of uridine itself .
Maximum concentrations of uridine in plasma following oral VISTOGARD are generally achieved within 2 to 3 hours , and the half - life ranges from approximately 2 to 2 . 5 hours .
Studies 1 and 2 included an assessment of plasma uridine in a subgroup of patients who were overdosed with fluorouracil or experiencing early - onset of serious fluorouracil toxicities .
Samples were obtained prior to VISTOGARD treatment and at 1 to 4 hours following the first and final doses of VISTOGARD given at 10 g ( adults ) or 6 . 2 grams / m2 ( pediatric ) every 6 hours for up to 20 doses .
Plasma uridine concentrations are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 Plasma Uridine Concentrations ( µM ) in Studies 1 and 2 Study Predose Post First Dose Post Final Dose Study 1 [ 1 ] 8 ( 33 ) 99 ( 64 ) 160 ( 81 ) N = 49 N = 49 N = 40 Study 2 null 5 ( 17 ) 119 ( 59 ) 153 ( 68 ) N = 27 N = 26 N = 24 [ 1 ] Values shown are mean ( standard deviation ) for plasma uridine ( µM ) Food Effect on Uridine PK : A study in healthy adult subjects receiving a slightly different formulation of uridine triacetate granules ( 6 gram dose ) under fed and fasted conditions showed no difference in the overall rate and extent of uridine exposure .
Distribution Circulating uridine is taken up into mammalian cells via specific nucleoside transporters , and also crosses the blood brain barrier .
Excretion Uridine can be excreted via the kidneys , but is also metabolized by normal pyrimidine catabolic pathways present in most tissues .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro enzyme inhibition data did not reveal meaningful inhibitory effects of uridine triacetate or uridine on CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP2E1 .
In vitro enzyme induction data did not reveal an inducing effect of uridine triacetate or uridine on CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 .
In vitro data showed that uridine triacetate was a weak substrate for P - glycoprotein .
Uridine triacetate inhibited the transport of a known P - glycoprotein substrate , digoxin , with an IC50 of 344 µM .
Due to the potential for high local ( gut ) concentrations of the drug after dosing , the interaction of VISTOGARD with orally administered P - gp substrate drugs cannot be ruled out .
In vivo data in humans are not available .
Specific Populations Sex Pharmacokinetics analyses showed that sex did not have a significant effect on uridine pharmacokinetics .
Age Pharmacokinetic analysis showed that within the age range evaluated ( 20 to 83 years ) , age did not have a significant effect on uridine pharmacokinetics .
Body Size Pharmacokinetic analyses showed no clinically meaningful effect of body surface area on uridine PK in adults .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of uridine triacetate .
Uridine triacetate was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma assay and the mouse micronucleus test .
Orally administered uridine triacetate did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance in male and female rats at doses up to 2000 mg / kg per day ( about one - half the maximum recommend human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 grams per day on a body surface area basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In mice given a sub - lethal dose of fluorouracil , the administration of oral uridine triacetate diminished hematological toxicity as a function of increasing dose , but did not completely prevent hematological toxicity .
In mice given a lethal dose of fluorouracil , administration of oral uridine triacetate increased survival to 90 % when given within 24 hours .
Survival diminished with increasing interval between the fluorouracil dose and uridine triacetate treatment demonstrating that earlier administration of uridine triacetate is more beneficial .
In similar experiments in mice , uridine triacetate treatment diminished damage to the intestinal mucosa caused by fluorouracil treatment .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of VISTOGARD was assessed in 135 patients who were treated in two open - label trials , Study 1 ( n = 60 ) and Study 2 ( n = 75 ) .
The patients in both studies had either received an overdose of fluorouracil or capecitabine , or presented with severe or life - threatening toxicities within 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration .
Overdose was defined as administration of fluorouracil at a dose , or infusion rate , greater than the intended dose or maximum tolerated dose for the patient ' s intended regimen of fluorouracil .
VISTOGARD was administered at 10 grams orally every 6 hours for 20 doses or at a body surface area adjusted dosage of 6 . 2 grams / m2 / dose for 20 doses for four patients between 1 and 7 years of age .
The major efficacy outcome was survival at 30 days or until the resumption of chemotherapy if prior to 30 days .
In Study 1 and Study 2 combined , the median age of the patients was 59 years ( range : 1 to 83 ) , 56 % were male , 72 % were white , 9 % were Black / African American , 6 % were Hispanic , 4 % were Asian , and 95 % had a cancer diagnosis .
Of the 135 patients , 117 were treated with VISTOGARD following an overdose of fluorouracil ( n = 112 ) or capecitabine ( n = 5 ) , and 18 were treated after exhibiting severe or life - threatening fluorouracil toxicities within 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil administration .
The severe or life - threatening toxicities involved the central nervous system ( such as encephalopathy , acute mental status change ) , cardiovascular system , gastrointestinal system ( such as mucositis ) , and bone marrow .
A total of six pediatric patients were administered VISTOGARD .
Four patients initiated VISTOGARD more than 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil or capecitabine administration .
Of the 112 patients overdosed with fluorouracil , 105 ( 94 % ) were overdosed by infusion rate only ( range 1 . 3 to 720 times the planned infusion rate ) , four ( 4 % ) were overdosed by dose only , and three ( 3 % ) were overdosed by both dose and rate .
The survival results are shown in Table 4 .
Of the 135 patients who were treated with VISTOGARD in Studies 1 and 2 there were five deaths due to fluorouracil or capecitabine toxicity ( 4 % ) .
Of the five patients who died , two were treated after 96 hours following the end of fluorouracil administration .
In the patients treated with VISTOGARD for an overdose of fluorouracil or capecitabine in Studies 1 and 2 combined ( n = 117 ) , survival at 30 days was 97 % ( n = 114 ) .
In the patients receiving VISTOGARD for early - onset severe or life - threatening toxicity in Studies 1 and 2 combined ( n = 18 ) , the survival at 30 days was 89 % ( n = 16 ) .
In these studies 33 % of patients ( n = 45 ) resumed chemotherapy in less than 30 days .
Based on retrospective historical case reports of 25 patients who were overdosed with fluorouracil and received supportive care only , all were overdosed by rate with a range 1 . 9 to 64 times the planned infusion rate , and 84 % died .
Table 4 Combined Efficacy : All Patients in Study 1 and Study 2 Overdose Early - Onset Overall Total Enrolled 117 18 135 Survival [ 1 ] 114 ( 97 % ) 16 ( 89 % ) 130 ( 96 % ) Death 3 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 11 % ) 5 ( 4 % ) [ 1 ] Survival includes patients who survived at 30 days or patients who resumed chemotherapy prior to 30 days .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VISTOGARD orange - flavored oral granules ( 95 % w / w ) are available in single - dose packets containing 10 grams of uridine triacetate .
NDC Number Package Configuration 69468 - 151 - 20 Course of therapy package : 1 carton containing 20 single - dose packets of VISTOGARD 69468 - 151 - 04 24 - Hour Pack : 1 carton containing 4 single - dose packets of VISTOGARD Store at USP controlled room temperature , 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Dosing Instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and ( 2 . 2 ) ] Advise the patient or caregiver : • The importance of taking all 20 doses , even if they feel well .
• That VISTOGARD can be taken mixed in food ( applesauce , pudding or yogurt ) .
• That the VISTOGARD granules should not be chewed .
• That if the patient vomits within 2 hours of taking a dose of VISTOGARD to take another complete dose as soon as possible after vomiting .
Take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
• That if the patient misses a dose at the scheduled time , to take that dose of VISTOGARD as soon as possible .
Then take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
Manufactured for and distributed by : Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation Rockville , MD 20850 VISTOGARD ® is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
The Wellstat logo is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
© 2015 , 2018 Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
All rights reserved .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 12 / 2015 Patient Information VISTOGARD ( VIS - toe - gard ) ( uridine triacetate ) oral granules What is VISTOGARD ?
VISTOGARD is a prescription medicine that contains uridine , a substance that is normally found in your body .
VISTOGARD is used for emergency treatment of adults and children : • after an overdose of fluorouracil or capecitabine with or without symptoms , or • who have early signs of severe or life - threatening side effects that affect the heart , or early signs of severe or life threatening neurologic ( central nervous system ) problems , or certain unusually severe side effects within 4 days ( 96 hours ) after receiving treatment with fluorouracil or capecitabine VISTOGARD should only be used for the emergency treatment of side effects of fluorouracil or capecitabine , because it may decrease the effectiveness of these medicines .
It is not known if VISTOGARD is safe and effective if started more than 4 days ( 96 hours ) after the end of a dose of fluorouracil or capecitabine .
Before taking VISTOGARD , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if VISTOGARD will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VISTOGARD passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take VISTOGARD .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I take VISTOGARD ?
• Take VISTOGARD exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• It is important that you take all 20 doses of VISTOGARD even if you feel well .
• VISTOGARD comes in single - dose packets that contain 10 grams of orange - flavored granules .
• If your healthcare provider decides that you can give VISTOGARD to your child at home , it is important that you follow your healthcare provider ' s instructions .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe VISTOGARD to your child based on your child ' s weight .
• The usual adult dose of VISTOGARD is 1 packet taken by mouth every 6 hours for a total of 20 doses .
• If you vomit within 2 hours of taking a dose of VISTOGARD , take another full dose as soon as possible .
Then take your next VISTOGARD dose at your next regularly scheduled time .
• If you miss a dose of VISTOGARD at the scheduled time , take the missed dose as soon as possible .
Then take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time .
Preparing and taking a dose of VISTOGARD : • Mix each packet of VISTOGARD granules with 3 to 4 ounces of soft food such as applesauce , pudding or yogurt in a small container .
• Take all of the VISTOGARD granules mixed with food within 30 minutes of mixing .
• Do not chew the VISTOGARD granules .
• Drink at least 4 ounces of water to make sure that you swallow all of the medicine .
What are the possible side effects of VISTOGARD ?
Common side effects of VISTOGARD include : vomiting , nausea , and diarrhea .
These are not all the possible side effects of VISTOGARD .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VISTOGARD ?
• Store VISTOGARD at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) Keep VISTOGARD and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VISTOGARD .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use VISTOGARD for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VISTOGARD to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about VISTOGARD that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients of VISTOGARD ?
Active Ingredient : uridine triacetate Inactive Ingredients : ethylcellulose , Opadry Clear [ proprietary dispersion of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and Macrogol ] , and natural orange juice flavor .
Manufactured for and distributed by Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation , Rockville , MD 20850 VISTOGARD ® is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
The Wellstat logo is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
© 2015 , 2018 Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . VISTOGARD . com or call 1 - 800 - 914 - 0071 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 g Packet Carton NDC 69468 - 151 - 20 Rx Only VISTOGARD ® 10 g ( uridine triacetate ) oral granules Carton contains 20 x 10 gram packets Wellstat Therapeutics ™ CORPORATION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
