Drug Facts Active ingredient ( by volume ) Hydrogen peroxide 3 % Purpose first aid antiseptic / oral debriding agent Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Uses • first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer than one week Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash or fever develops Directions first aid antiseptic : • clean affected area • apply small amount of product on affected area 1 - 3 times a day • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : • adults and children 2 years of age and over : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over affected area for atleast 1 minute and then spit out • use upto 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age ; consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredient purified water , Phosphoric acid as a stabilizer Other information Keep tightly closed and in a dark place at a controlled room temperature .
Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED SEAL ON CAP IS BROKEN OR REMOVED .
3 % Topical Solution USP TOPICAL ANTI - INFECTIVE • For treatment of minor cuts and abrasions .
Imported by : OSTL INC . 5805 , White Oak Ave Suite # 16065 Encino , CA 91416 , USA www . ostltrade . com Made in India Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
