Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % Solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • patient preoperative skin preparation : for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums • if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wound which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms with water .
• scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 ml of product and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a separate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of productand inse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Patient preoperative skin preparation : • apply product liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and general skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly other information • store at 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol Laundering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine Gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products , such as chlorine bleach .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detergents .
Warning : This product can expose you to chemicals including cocamide DEA , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer .
For more information , go to P65Warnings . ca . gov For Professional and Hospital Use Only You may report serious side effects to 1 - 877 - 227 - 3462 Not Made with Natural Rubber Latex Distributed by Cardinal Health Waukegan , IL 60085 USA Rev . D 2019 - 07 • cardinalhealth . com © 2019 Cardinal Health .
All Rights Reserved .
CARDINAL HEALTH and the Cardinal Health LOGO are trademarks of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and / or in other countries .
Package Label NDC : 63517 - 061 - 04 AS - 4CHGL4 Cardinal Health Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Single Use Antiseptic Non Sterile Solution Distributed by : Cardinal Health Waukegan , IL 60085 USA Rev . D 2019 - 07 • cardinalhealth . com © 2019 Cardinal Health .
All Rights Reserved .
CARDINAL HEALTH and the Cardinal Health LOGO are trademarks of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and / or in other countries .
4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 63517 - 061 - 08 AS - 4CHGL8 Cardinal Health Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Antiseptic 8 fl oz ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
