Description Heparin is a heterogeneous group of straight - chain anionic mucopolysaccharides , called glycosaminoglycans , having anticoagulant properties .
Although others may be present , the main sugars occurring in heparin are : ( 1 ) α - L - iduronic acid 2 - sulfate , ( 2 ) 2 - deoxy - 2 - sulfamino - α - D - glucose 6 - sulfate , ( 3 ) ß - D - glucuronic acid , ( 4 ) 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - α - D - glucose and ( 5 ) α - L - iduronic acid .
These sugars are present in decreasing amounts , usually in the order ( 2 ) greater than ( 1 ) greater than ( 4 ) greater than ( 3 ) greater than ( 5 ) , and are joined by glycosidic linkages , forming polymers of varying sizes .
Heparin is strongly acidic because of its content of covalently linked sulfate and carboxylic acid groups .
In heparin sodium , the acidic protons of the sulfate units are partially replaced by sodium ions .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP is a sterile solution of heparin sodium derived from porcine intestinal mucosa , standardized for anticoagulant activity , in water for injection .
It is to be administered by intravenous or deep subcutaneous routes .
The potency is determined by a biological assay using a USP reference standard based on units of heparin activity per milligram .
Structure of Heparin Sodium ( representative subunits ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free , is available as follows : Each mL of the 1 , 000 Units per mL preparation contains : 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units ( porcine ) ; 9 mg sodium chloride ; Water for Injection q . s . Made isotonic with sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol , is available as follows : Each mL of the 5 , 000 Units per mL preparation contains : 5 , 000 USP Heparin Units ( porcine ) ; 6 mg sodium chloride ; 15 mg benzyl alcohol ( as a preservative ) ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with parabens , is available as follows : Each mL of the 1 , 000 Units per mL preparation contains : 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units ( porcine ) ; 9 mg sodium chloride ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Made isotonic with sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 5 , 000 Units per mL preparation contains : 5 , 000 USP Heparin Units ( porcine ) ; 5 mg sodium chloride ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Made isotonic with sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 10 , 000 Units per mL preparation contains : 10 , 000 USP Heparin Units ( porcine ) ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
Each mL of the 20 , 000 Units per mL preparation contains : 20 , 000 USP Heparin Units ( porcine ) ; 1 . 5 mg methylparaben ; 0 . 15 mg propylparaben ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Heparin inhibits reactions that lead to the clotting of blood and the formation of fibrin clots both in vitro and in vivo .
Heparin acts at multiple sites in the normal coagulation system .
Small amounts of heparin in combination with antithrombin III ( heparin cofactor ) can inhibit thrombosis by inactivating activated Factor X and inhibiting the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin .
Once active thrombosis has developed , larger amounts of heparin can inhibit further coagulation by inactivating thrombin and preventing the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin .
Heparin also prevents the formation of a stable fibrin clot by inhibiting the activation of the fibrin stabilizing factor .
Bleeding time is usually unaffected by heparin .
Clotting time is prolonged by full therapeutic doses of heparin ; in most cases , it is not measurably affected by low doses of heparin .
Patients over 60 years of age , following similar doses of heparin , may have higher plasma levels of heparin and longer activated partial thromboplastin times ( APTTs ) compared with patients under 60 years of age .
Peak plasma levels of heparin are achieved two to four hours following subcutaneous administration , although there are considerable individual variations .
Loglinear plots of heparin plasma concentrations with time , for a wide range of dose levels , are linear , which suggests the absence of zero order processes .
Liver and the reticuloendothelial system are the sites of biotransformation .
The biphasic elimination curve , a rapidly declining alpha phase ( t1 ⁄ 2 = 10 minutes ) and after the age of 40 a slower beta phase , indicates uptake in organs .
The absence of a relationship between anticoagulant half - life and concentration half - life may reflect factors such as protein binding of heparin .
Heparin does not have fibrinolytic activity ; therefore , it will not lyse existing clots .
Indications and Usage Heparin Sodium Injection is indicated for : Anticoagulant therapy in prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension ; Low - dose regimen for prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who , for other reasons , are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) ; Prophylaxis and treatment of pulmonary embolism ; Atrial fibrillation with embolization ; Diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies ( disseminated intravascular coagulation ) ; Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery ; Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism .
Heparin may also be employed as an anticoagulant in blood transfusions , extracorporeal circulation , and dialysis procedures and in blood samples for laboratory purposes .
Contraindications Heparin sodium should NOT be used in patients with the following conditions : Severe thrombocytopenia ; When suitable blood coagulation tests , e . g . , the whole blood clotting time , partial thromboplastin time , etc . , cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( this contraindication refers to full - dose heparin ; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low - dose heparin ) ; An uncontrollable active bleeding state ( see WARNINGS ) , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation .
Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers , and Pediatric Use Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol to neonates , infants , pregnant women , or nursing mothers ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers , and Pediatric Use ) .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events and death , particularly in pediatric patients .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free , when indicated , should be used in these populations .
Warnings Heparin is not intended for intramuscular use .
Fatal Medication Errors Do not use Heparin Sodium Injection as a “ catheter lock flush ” product .
Heparin Sodium Injection is supplied in vials containing various strengths of heparin , including vials that contain a highly concentrated solution of 10 , 000 units in 1 mL .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred in pediatric patients due to medication errors in which 1 mL Heparin Sodium Injection vials were confused with 1 mL “ catheter lock flush ” vials .
Carefully examine all Heparin Sodium Injection vials to confirm the correct vial choice prior to administration of the drug .
Hypersensitivity Patients with documented hypersensitivity to heparin should be given the drug only in clearly life - threatening situations ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Hypersensitivity ) .
Hemorrhage Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
An unexplained fall in hematocrit , fall in blood pressure or any other unexplained symptom should lead to serious consideration of a hemorrhagic event .
Heparin sodium should be used with extreme caution in disease states in which there is increased danger of hemorrhage .
Some of the conditions in which increased danger of hemorrhage exists are : Cardiovascular — Subacute bacterial endocarditis , severe hypertension .
Surgical — During and immediately following ( a ) spinal tap or spinal anesthesia or ( b ) major surgery , especially involving the brain , spinal cord , or eye .
Hematologic — Conditions associated with increased bleeding tendencies , such as hemophilia , thrombocytopenia and some vascular purpuras .
Gastrointestinal — Ulcerative lesions and continuous tube drainage of the stomach or small intestine .
Other — Menstruation , liver disease with impaired hemostasis .
Coagulation Testing When heparin sodium is administered in therapeutic amounts , its dosage should be regulated by frequent blood coagulation tests .
If the coagulation test is unduly prolonged or if hemorrhage occurs , heparin sodium should be promptly discontinued ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia has been reported to occur in patients receiving heparin with a reported incidence of up to 30 % .
Platelet counts should be obtained at baseline and periodically during heparin administration .
Mild thrombocytopenia ( count greater than 100 , 000 / mm3 ) may remain stable or reverse even if heparin is continued .
However , thrombocytopenia of any degree should be monitored closely .
If the count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops ( see Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ) , the heparin product should be discontinued , and , if necessary , an alternative anticoagulant administered .
Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) is a serious antibody - mediated reaction resulting from irreversible aggregation of platelets .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition referred to as Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) .
Thrombotic events may also be the initial presentation for HITT .
These serious thromboembolic events include deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , cerebral vein thrombosis , limb ischemia , stroke , myocardial infarction , mesenteric thrombosis , renal arterial thrombosis , skin necrosis , gangrene of the extremities that may lead to amputation , and possibly death .
Thrombocytopenia of any degree should be monitored closely .
If the platelet count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , the heparin product should be promptly discontinued and alternative anticoagulants considered , if patients require continued anticoagulation .
Delayed Onset of HIT and HITT Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy .
Patients presenting with thrombocytopenia or thrombosis after discontinuation of heparin should be evaluated for HIT and HITT .
Precautions General Thrombocytopenia , Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and Heparin - induced Thromocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) See WARNINGS Heparin Resistance - Increased resistance to heparin is frequently encountered in fever , thrombosis , thrombophlebitis , infections with thrombosing tendencies , myocardial infarction , cancer and in postsurgical patients .
Increased Risk to Older Patients , Especially Women - A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age . Laboratory Tests Periodic platelet counts , hematocrits , and tests for occult blood in stool are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions Oral Anticoagulants - Heparin sodium may prolong the one - stage prothrombin time .
Therefore , when heparin sodium is given with dicumarol or warfarin sodium , a period of at least five hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose should elapse before blood is drawn , if a valid prothrombin time is to be obtained .
Platelet Inhibitors - Drugs such as acetylsalicylic acid , dextran , phenylbutazone , ibuprofen , indomethacin , dipyridamole , hydroxychloroquine and others that interfere with platelet - aggregation reactions ( the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients ) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium .
Other Interactions - Digitalis , tetracyclines , nicotine or antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium .
Intravenous nitroglycerin administered to heparinized patients may result in a decrease of the partial thromboplastin time with subsequent rebound effect upon discontinuation of nitroglycerin .
Careful monitoring of partial thromboplastin time and adjustment of heparin dosage are recommended during coadministration of heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin . Drug / Laboratory Tests Interactions .
Hyperaminotransferasemia - Significant elevations of aminotransferase ( SGOT [ S - AST ] and SGPT [ S - ALT ] ) levels have occurred in a high percentage of patients ( and healthy subjects ) who have received heparin .
Since aminotransferase determinations are important in the differential diagnosis of myocardial infarction , liver disease and pulmonary emboli , increases that might be caused by drugs ( like heparin ) should be interpreted with caution . Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential of heparin .
Also , no reproduction studies in animals have been performed concerning mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol , to pregnant women ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers , and Pediatric Use and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free , when indicated , should be administered to pregnant women .
Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C - Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with heparin sodium .
It is also not known whether heparin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Heparin sodium should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects - Heparin does not cross the placental barrier .
Nursing Mothers Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol , to nursing mothers ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers , and Pediatric Use and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free , when indicated , should be administered to nursing mothers .
Heparin is not excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Pediatric Use .
Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol , to neonates and infants ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers , and Pediatric Use ) .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free , when indicated , should be administered to neonates and infants .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events and death , particularly in pediatric patients .
The “ gasping syndrome , ” ( characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , gasping respirations , and high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine ) has been associated with benzyl alcohol dosages greater than 99 mg / kg / day in neonates and low - birthweight neonates .
Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the “ gasping syndrome ” , the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Premature and low - birthweight infants , as well as patients receiving high dosages , may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Practitioners administering this and other medications containing benzyl alcohol should consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources .
Geriatric Use A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients over 60 years of age , especially women ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Clinical studies indicate that lower doses of heparin may be indicated in these patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Adverse Reactions Hemorrhage Hemorrhage is the chief complication that may result from heparin therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
An overly prolonged clotting time or minor bleeding during therapy can usually be controlled by withdrawing the drug ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
It should be appreciated that gastrointestinal or urinary tract bleeding during anticoagulant therapy may indicate the presence of an underlying occult lesion .
Bleeding can occur at any site but certain specific hemorrhagic complications may be difficult to detect : ( a ) Adrenal hemorrhage , with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency , has occurred during anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , such treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop signs and symptoms of acute adrenal hemorrhage and insufficiency .
Initiation of corrective therapy should not depend on laboratory confirmation of the diagnosis , since any delay in an acute situation may result in the patient ’ s death .
( b ) Ovarian ( corpus luteum ) hemorrhage developed in a number of women of reproductive age receiving short - or long - term anticoagulant therapy .
This complication , if unrecognized , may be fatal .
( c ) Retroperitoneal hemorrhage .
Thrombocytopenia , Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and Heparin - induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis ( HITT ) and Delayed Onset of HIT and HITT See WARNINGS .
Local Irritation Local irritation , erythema , mild pain , hematoma or ulceration may follow deep subcutaneous ( intrafat ) injection of heparin sodium .
These complications are much more common after intramuscular use , and such use is not recommended .
Hypersensitivity Generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported , with chills , fever and urticaria as the most usual manifestations , and asthma , rhinitis , lacrimation , headache , nausea and vomiting , and anaphylactoid reactions , including shock , occurring more rarely .
Itching and burning , especially on the plantar side of the feet , may occur ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Certain episodes of painful , ischemic and cyanosed limbs have in the past been attributed to allergic vasospastic reactions .
Whether these are in fact identical to the thrombocytopenia - associated complications , remains to be determined .
Miscellaneous Osteoporosis following long - term administration of high doses of heparin , cutaneous necrosis after systemic administration , suppression of aldosterone synthesis , delayed transient alopecia , priapism , and rebound hyperlipemia on discontinuation of heparin sodium have also been reported .
Significant elevations of aminotransferase ( SGOT [ S - AST ] and SGPT [ S - ALT ] ) levels have occurred in a high percentage of patients ( and healthy subjects ) who have received heparin .
Overdosage Symptoms Bleeding is the chief sign of heparin overdosage .
Nosebleeds , blood in urine or tarry stools may be noted as the first sign of bleeding .
Easy bruising or petechial formations may precede frank bleeding .
Treatment Neutralization of Heparin Effect — When clinical circumstances ( bleeding ) require reversal of heparinization , protamine sulfate ( 1 % solution ) by slow infusion will neutralize heparin sodium .
No more than 50 mg should be administered , very slowly , in any 10 minute period .
Each mg of protamine sulfate neutralizes approximately 100 USP heparin units .
The amount of protamine required decreases over time as heparin is metabolized .
Although the metabolism of heparin is complex , it may , for the purpose of choosing a protamine dose , be assumed to have a half - life of about 1 / 2 hour after intravenous injection .
Administration of protamine sulfate can cause severe hypotensive and anaphylactoid reactions .
Because fatal reactions often resembling anaphylaxis have been reported , the drug should be given only when resuscitation techniques and treatment of anaphylactoid shock are readily available .
For additional information consult the labeling of Protamine Sulfate Injection , USP products .
Dosage and Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Slight discoloration does not alter potency .
Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium Injection vial prior to administration of the drug to a patient ( see WARNINGS , Fatal Medication Errors ) .
The 1 mL vial must not be confused with a “ catheter lock flush ” vial or other 1 mL vial of inappropriate strength .
Confirm that you have selected the correct medication and strength prior to administration of the drug .
When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration , the container should be inverted at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution .
Heparin sodium is not effective by oral administration and should be given by intermittent intravenous injection , intravenous infusion , or deep subcutaneous ( intrafat , i . e . , above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer ) injection .
The intramuscular route of administration should be avoided because of the frequent occurrence of hematoma at the injection site .
The dosage of heparin sodium should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s coagulation test results .
When heparin is given by continuous intravenous infusion , the coagulation time should be determined approximately every four hours in the early stages of treatment .
When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection , coagulation tests should be performed before each injection during the early stages of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter .
Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time ( APTT ) is 1 . 5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2 . 5 to 3 times the control value .
After deep subcutaneous ( intrafat ) injections , tests for adequacy of dosage are best performed on samples drawn four to six hours after the injection .
Periodic platelet counts , hematocrits and tests for occult blood in stool are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration .
Converting to Oral Anticoagulant When an oral anticoagulant of the coumarin or similar type is to be begun in patients already receiving heparin sodium , baseline and subsequent tests of prothrombin activity must be determined at a time when heparin activity is too low to affect the prothrombin time .
This is about five hours after the last IV bolus and 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose .
If continuous IV heparin infusion is used , prothrombin time can usually be measured at any time .
In converting from heparin to an oral anticoagulant , the dose of the oral anticoagulant should be the usual initial amount and thereafter prothrombin time should be determined at the usual intervals .
To ensure continuous anticoagulation , it is advisable to continue full heparin therapy for several days after the prothrombin time has reached the therapeutic range .
Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering .
Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect With Full - Dose Heparin Although dosage must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests , the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines : METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE ( based on 150 lb [ 68 kg ] patient ) Deep Subcutaneous ( Intrafat ) Injection A different site should be used for each injection to prevent the development of massive hematoma .
Initial Dose Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 5 , 000 units by IV injection , followed by 10 , 000 to 20 , 000 units of a concentrated solution , subcutaneously 8 , 000 to 10 , 000 units of a concentrated solution .
15 , 000 to 20 , 000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose Every 4 to 6 hours 10 , 000 units , either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 , 000 to 10 , 000 units , either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose Continuous 5 , 000 units by IV Injection 20 , 000 to 40 , 000 units / 24 hours in 1 , 000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or in any compatible solution ) for infusion ) Pediatric Use Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preserved with benzyl alcohol , to neonates and infants ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers , and Pediatric Use and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
When indicated , Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) , preservative free should be used in neonates and infants .
Follow recommendations of appropriate pediatric reference texts .
In general , the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline : Initial Dose : 50 units / kg ( IV , infusion ) Maintenance Dose : 100 units / kg ( IV , infusion ) every four hours , or 20 , 000 units / m2 / 24 hours continuously Geriatric Use Patients over 60 years of age may require lower doses of heparin .
Surgery of the Heart and Blood Vessels Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open - heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight .
Frequently , a dose of 300 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes , or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes .
Low - Dose Prophylaxis of Postoperative Thromboembolism A number of well - controlled clinical trials have demonstrated that low - dose heparin prophylaxis , given just prior to and after surgery , will reduce the incidence of postoperative deep vein thrombosis in the legs ( as measured by the I - 125 fibrinogen technique and venography ) and of clinical pulmonary embolism .
The most widely used dosage has been 5 , 000 units 2 hours before surgery and 5 , 000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for seven days or until the patient is fully ambulatory , whichever is longer .
The heparin is given by deep subcutaneous injection in the arm or abdomen with a fine needle ( 25 to 26 gauge ) to minimize tissue trauma .
A concentrated solution of heparin sodium is recommended .
Such prophylaxis should be reserved for patients over the age of 40 who are undergoing major surgery .
Patients with bleeding disorders and those having neurosurgery , spinal anesthesia , eye surgery or potentially sanguineous operations should be excluded , as well as patients receiving oral anticoagulants or platelet - active drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
The value of such prophylaxis in hip surgery has not been established .
The possibility of increased bleeding during surgery or postoperatively should be borne in mind .
If such bleeding occurs , discontinuance of heparin and neutralization with protamine sulfate are advisable .
If clinical evidence of thromboembolism develops despite low - dose prophylaxis , full therapeutic doses of anticoagulants should be given unless contraindicated .
All patients should be screened prior to heparinization to rule out bleeding disorders , and monitoring should be performed with appropriate coagulation tests just prior to surgery .
Coagulation test values should be normal or only slightly elevated .
There is usually no need for daily monitoring of the effect of low - dose heparin in patients with normal coagulation parameters .
Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers ’ operating directions carefully .
Blood Transfusion Addition of 400 to 600 USP units per 100 mL of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation .
Usually , 7 , 500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or 75 , 000 USP units / 1 , 000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ) and mixed ; from this sterile solution , 6 to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood .
Laboratory Samples Addition of 70 to 150 units of heparin sodium per 10 to 20 mL sample of whole blood is usually employed to prevent coagulation of the sample .
Leukocyte counts should be performed on heparinized blood within two hours after addition of the heparin .
Heparinized blood should not be used for isoagglutinin , complement , or erythrocyte fragility tests or platelet counts .
How Supplied Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) preservative free , is available as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
27602 63323 - 276 - 02 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 2 mL fill in a 2 mL single dose , flip - top vial , in packages of 25 Preservative Free Discard Unused Portion .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) contains benzyl alcohol and is available as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
4710 63323 - 047 - 10 5 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 10 mL fill in a 10 mL multiple dose , flip - top vial , in packages of 25 Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP ( porcine ) contains parabens and is available as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
501001 * 63323 - 540 - 01 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
504011 63323 - 540 - 11 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
504031 63323 - 540 - 31 1 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
926201 ** 63323 - 262 - 01 5 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
504201 * 63323 - 542 - 01 10 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
504207 63323 - 542 - 07 10 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
9155011 ** 63323 - 915 - 01 20 , 000 USP Heparin Units / mL , 1 mL fill in a 3 mL vial .
* Packaged in a plastic or glass vial .
** Packaged in a plastic vial .
The above products are available in multiple dose , flip - top vials packaged in 25 .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
References • Tahata T , Shigehito M , Kusuhara K , Ueda Y , et al .
Delayed - Onset of Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia – A Case Report – J Jpn Assn Torca Surg .
1992 ; 40 ( 3 ) : 110 - 111 .
• Warkentin T , Kelton J . Delayed - Onset Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis .
Annals of Internal Medicine .
2001 ; 135 : 502 - 506 .
• Rice L , Attisha W , Drexler A , Francis J . Delayed - Onset Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia .
Annals of Internal Medicine , 2002 ; 136 : 210 - 215 .
• Dieck J . , C . Rizo - Patron , et al . ( 1990 ) .
“ A New Manifestation and Treatment Alternative for Heparin - Induced Thrombosis . ”
Chest 98 ( 1524 - 26 ) .
• Smythe M , Stephens J , Mattson .
Delayed - Onset Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia .
Annals of Emergency Medicine , 2005 ; 45 ( 4 ) : 417 - 419 .
• Divgi A . ( Reprint ) , Thumma S . , Hari P . , Friedman K . , Delayed Onset Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) Presenting After Undocumented Drug Exposure as Post - Angiography Pulmonary Embolism .
Blood .
2003 ; 102 ( 11 ) : 127 b . Sample Outer Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
