Drug Facts Active Ingredient Ethyl Alcohol ( Ethanol ) 80 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Use Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings External use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product , keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be a signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
• Rub hands together briskly until dry • Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other Information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients : Glycerin , Hydrogen Peroxide , Purified Water USP 80 % ETHANOL FORMULA ALCOHOL ANTISEPTIC TOPICAL KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN For Emergencies , Call 24 hr ChemTel : 800 - 255 - 3924 Manufactured By : Creative Chemicals , Inc .
88 Winter St . , Holyoke , MA 01040 DIRECTIONS FOR USE Place enough product in your palm to thoroughly cover your hands .
Rub hands together briskly until dry .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Store 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) .
May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
WARNING Warnings .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
