Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Isostearyl isostearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Cyclohexasiloxane , Glyeryl stearate , Tribehenin , Cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Myristyl myristate , Rosa canina fruit oil , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Sodium lauroyl lactylate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Retinyl palmitate , Diospyros kaki calyx extract , Cholesterol , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Propylene glycol , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Ceramide 3 , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Ceramide 6 ll , Phytosphingosine , Tocopherol , Triethyl citrate , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Ceramide 1 , CI77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI14700 ( Red 4 ) The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . boots . com Description No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Anti - Ageing Skincare System .
Younger looking skin in two weeks Supercharged with clinically proven Triple Action serum technology to deliver : Visibly reduced wrinkles Firmer feeling skin More even skin tone No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System contains : No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Serum 30 ml e 1 US Fl . Oz .
No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Night Cream 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
Description section Triple Action Results Discover No7 ' s Lift and Luminate Triple Action skincare designed to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin .
As skin ages its appearance and structure changes , with the development of fine lines and wrinkles , loss of firmness and elasticity , and a more uneven skin tone .
These three factors can have the biggest effect on skin ' s youthful appearance , causing you to look older than you feel .
Our Lift and Luminate Triple Action skincare system addresses all three , delivering : Visibly reduced wrinkles - Firmer feeling skin - A more even skin tone Formulated by No7 , leaders in anti - ageing skincare science .
SERUM Clinically proven to deliver 3 anti - ageing results .
Powered by Matrixyl 3000 Plus , our most effective anti - wrinkle peptide technology , from our highly acclaimed No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum , our advanced firming complex containing Hyaluronic acid and Hibiscus , and a unique brightening complex containing Vitamin C .
After the first application skin feels smoother and looks more radiant .
after 2 weeks skin looks younger : wrinkles are visibly reduced , skin is noticeably firmer and skin tone is more even .
After 8 weeks , more than 80 % of women asked agreed that their skin had not looked or felt so good in a long time .
No7 Serums are designed to be used underneath your moisturiser to deliver key benefits directly to the skin .
DAY CREAM Supercharged with technology from our clinically proven Triple Action serum to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin , for younger looking skin in just 2 weeks .
Formulated with the protective power of Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 to help give your skin protection from the No1 cause of visible skin ageing .
Use regularly as directed for younger looking skin now and in the future .
It is the perfect daytime partner to our Lift and Luminate Triple Action Serum .
NIGHT CREAM Supercharged with technology from our clinically proven Triple Action Serum to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin , for younger looking skin in just 2 weeks .
With visible results from the first morning , this multi - tasking night cream nourishes and helps restore skin moisture whilst you sleep .
After 4 weeks , you will awaken to rested , more radiant and healthy looking skin .
For Best results : After cleansing , smooth No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Serum onto your face and neck .
In the morning , follow with No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Day Cream .
At night , follow with No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Night Cream Carton image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
