1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LOTEMAX ® SM ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic gel ) 0 . 38 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation and pain following ocular surgery .
LOTEMAX ® SM is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation and pain following ocular surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Invert closed bottle and shake once to fill tip before instilling drops .
Apply one drop of LOTEMAX ® SM into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye three times daily beginning the day after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
Invert closed bottle and shake once to fill tip before instilling drops .
( 2 ) Apply one drop of LOTEMAX ® SM into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye three times daily beginning the day after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS LOTEMAX ® SM ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic gel ) 0 . 38 % is a sterile preserved ophthalmic gel containing 3 . 8 mg of loteprednol etabonate per gram of gel .
LOTEMAX ® SM is a sterile preserved ophthalmic gel containing 3 . 8 mg of loteprednol etabonate per gram of gel .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS LOTEMAX ® SM , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
LOTEMAX ® SM , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Intraocular pressure ( IOP ) increase - Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Cataracts - Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Delayed healing – The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Bacterial infections – Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Viral infections – Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Fungal infections – Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) Increase Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored .
5 . 2 Cataracts Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Healing The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 4 Bacterial Infections Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
5 . 5 Viral Infections Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
5 . 6 Fungal Infections Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
5 . 7 Contact Lens Wear Contact lenses should not be worn when the eyes are inflamed .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids include elevated intraocular pressure , which may be associated with infrequent optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , delayed wound healing and secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera .
There were no treatment - emergent adverse drug reactions that occurred in more than 1 % of subjects in the three times daily group compared to vehicle .
There were no treatment - emergent adverse drug reactions that occurred in more than 1 % of subjects in the three times daily group compared to vehicle .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well controlled studies with loteprednol etabonate in pregnant women .
Loteprednol etabonate produced teratogenicity at clinically relevant doses in the rabbit and rat when administered orally during pregnancy .
Loteprednol etabonate produced malformations when administered orally to pregnant rabbits at doses 4 . 2 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) and to pregnant rats at doses 106 times the RHOD .
In pregnant rats receiving oral doses of loteprednol etabonate during the period equivalent to the last trimester of pregnancy through lactation in humans , survival of offspring was reduced at doses 10 . 6 times the RHOD .
Maternal toxicity was observed in rats at doses 1066 times the RHOD , and a maternal no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was established at 106 times the RHOD .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % , and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % , of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data Embryofetal studies were conducted in pregnant rabbits administered loteprednol etabonate by oral gavage on gestation days 6 to 18 , to target the period of organogenesis .
Loteprednol etabonate produced fetal malformations at 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 4 . 2 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) based on body surface area , assuming 100 % absorption ) .
Spina bifida ( including meningocele ) was observed at 0 . 1 mg / kg , and exencephaly and craniofacial malformations were observed at 0 . 4 mg / kg ( 17 times the RHOD ) .
At 3 mg / kg ( 128 times the RHOD ) , loteprednol etabonate was associated with increased incidences of abnormal left common carotid artery , limb flexures , umbilical hernia , scoliosis , and delayed ossification .
Abortion and embryofetal lethality ( resorption ) occurred at 6 mg / kg ( 256 times the RHOD ) .
A NOAEL for developmental toxicity was not established in this study .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity in rabbits was 3 mg / kg / day .
Embryofetal studies were conducted in pregnant rats administered loteprednol etabonate by oral gavage on gestation days 6 to 15 , to target the period of organogenesis .
Loteprednol etabonate produced fetal malformations , including absent innominate artery at 5 mg / kg ( 106 times the RHOD ) ; and cleft palate , agnathia , cardiovascular defects , umbilical hernia , decreased fetal body weight and decreased skeletal ossification at 50 mg / kg ( 1066 times the RHOD ) .
Embryofetal lethality ( resorption ) was observed at 100 mg / kg ( 2133 times the RHOD ) .
The NOAEL for developmental toxicity in rats was 0 . 5 mg / kg ( 10 . 6 times the RHOD ) .
Loteprednol etabonate was maternally toxic ( reduced body weight gain ) at 50 mg / kg / day .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 5 mg / kg .
A peri - / postnatal study was conducted in rats administered loteprednol etabonate by oral gavage from gestation day 15 ( start of fetal period ) to postnatal day 21 ( the end of lactation period ) .
At 0 . 5 mg / kg ( 10 . 6 times the clinical dose ) , reduced survival was observed in live - born offspring .
Doses ≥ 5 mg / kg ( 106 times the RHOD ) caused umbilical hernia / incomplete gastrointestinal tract .
Doses ≥ 50 mg / kg ( 1066 times the RHOD ) produced maternal toxicity ( reduced body weight gain , death ) , decreased number of live - born offspring , decreased birth weight , and delays in postnatal development .
A developmental NOAEL was not established in this study .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 5 mg / kg .
8 . 2 Lactation There are no data on the presence of loteprednol etabonate in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for LOTEMAX ® SM and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from LOTEMAX ® SM .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of LOTEMAX ® SM in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION LOTEMAX ® SM ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic gel ) 0 . 38 % contains a sterile , topical corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
Loteprednol etabonate is a white to off - white powder .
Loteprednol etabonate is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : chloromethyl 17α - [ ( ethoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] - 11β - hydroxy - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carboxylate Each gram contains : • • Active : loteprednol etabonate 3 . 8 mg ( 0 . 38 % ) ; • • Inactives : boric acid , edetate disodium dihydrate , glycerin , hypromellose , poloxamer , polycarbophil , propylene glycol , sodium chloride , water for injection , and sodium hydroxide to adjust to a pH of between 6 and 7 .
• • Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 003 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Loteprednol etabonate is a corticosteroid .
Corticosteroids have been shown to inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
While glucocorticoids are known to bind to and activate the glucocorticoid receptor , the molecular mechanisms involved in glucocorticoid / glucocorticoid receptor - dependent modulation of inflammation are not clearly established .
However , corticosteroids are thought to inhibit prostaglandin production through several independent mechanisms .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic exposure to loteprednol etabonate following topical bilateral ocular administration of one drop three times daily of LOTEMAX ® SM for up to two weeks ( Day 15 ) was evaluated in 18 healthy adult subjects .
Plasma concentrations of loteprednol etabonate were analyzed using a validated LC / MS / MS method and the lower limit of quantitation for loteprednol etabonate was 0 . 05 ng / mL .
The mean ( ± SD ) Cmax values for loteprednol etabonate in plasma were 0 . 13 ( ± 0 . 06 ) ng / mL on Day 1 after a single dose and 0 . 16 ( ± 0 . 06 ) ng / mL after the last dose on Day 15 of the study .
The mean ( ± SD ) AUCt values for loteprednol etabonate in plasma were 0 . 15 ( ± 0 . 15 ) hr • ng / mL on Day 1 after a single dose and 0 . 35 ( ± 0 . 32 ) hr • ng / mL after the last dose on Day 15 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of loteprednol etabonate .
Loteprednol etabonate was not genotoxic in vitroin the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma tk assay , or in the chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , or in vivoin the mouse micronucleus assay .
Treatment of male and female rats with 25 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate ( 533 times the RHOD based on body surface area , assuming 100 % absorption ) prior to and during mating caused preimplantation loss and decreased the number of live fetuses / live births .
The NOAEL for fertility in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( 106 times the RHOD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized , multicenter , double - masked , parallel group , vehicle - controlled trials in patients who underwent cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation , LOTEMAX ® SM administered three times daily to the affected eye beginning the day after cataract surgery was more effective compared to its vehicle in resolving anterior chamber inflammation and pain following surgery .
In these studies , LOTEMAX ® SM had statistically significantly higher rates of subjects with complete clearing of anterior chamber cells and of subjects who were pain free at post - operative Day 8 compared to vehicle .
Results are shown in the following table .
Proportion of Subjects with Complete Clearing of Anterior Chamber Cells and Proportion of Subjects with Complete Resolution of Pain at Post - Operative Day 8 .
Outcome Study 1 Study 2 LOTEMAX ® SM N = 171 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 172 n ( % ) Difference ( 95 CI ) % LOTEMAX ® SM N = 200 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 199 n ( % ) Difference ( 95 % CI ) % Cells 49 ( 29 % ) 16 ( 9 % ) 19 ( 11 , 27 ) 61 ( 31 % ) 40 ( 20 % ) 10 ( 2 , 19 ) Pain 125 ( 73 % ) 82 ( 48 % ) 25 ( 15 , 35 ) 151 ( 76 % ) 99 ( 50 % ) 26 ( 17 , 35 ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LOTEMAX ® SM ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic gel ) 0 . 38 % is a sterile ophthalmic submicron gel supplied in a white low - density polyethylene plastic bottle with a white controlled drop tip and a pink polypropylene cap in the following size : 5 g in a 10 mL bottle ( NDC 24208 - 507 - 07 ) Use only if imprinted neckband is intact .
Storage : Store upright at 15º to 25ºC ( 59º to 77ºF ) .
After opening , LOTEMAX ® SM can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration Invert closed bottle and shake once to fill tip before instilling drops .
Risk of Contamination Advise patients not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the gel .
Contact Lens Wear Advise patients contact lenses should not be worn when the eyes are inflamed .
Risk of Secondary Infection Advise the patient to consult a physician if pain develops , redness , itching or inflammation becomes aggravated .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 , USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated , Tampa , FL 33637 USA U . S . Patent Number : 10 , 596 , 107 LOTEMAX is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9669601 ( Folded ) 9669701 ( Flat ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24208 - 507 - 07 Rx only LOTEMAX ® SM ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic gel ) 0 . 38 % FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Sterile 5 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
