Acteminophen 500 mg Pain reliever / Fever reducer Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning : In case of overdose , get medical help or Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs of symptoms .
Temporary relieves minor aches and pains due to : the common cold , headache , toothache , muscular aches , backache , minor pains of arthritis , menstrual and premenstrual cramps , and temporarily reduces fever .
Liver Warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take : - more than 4000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours - with other drugs containing acetaminophen - 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include skin reddening , blisters , rash .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use - with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
- if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if : - Pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days - Fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days - New symptoms occur - Redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant of breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Do not take more than directed ( see overdose warnings ) Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Take 2 caplets every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last .
Do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours .
Do not use more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor .
Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
