Drug Facts Active ingredient Glycerin ( 25 % ) Purpose Lip Protectant • Temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked lips • For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor lip irritation • Helps protect lips from the drying effects of wind and cold weather WARNINGS : For External Use Only : Do not use this product in or near the eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Do not use on broken skin or open wounds .
Stop Use and ask a Physician if a rash occurs , and worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days .
When using this product you may feel a tingling or stinging sensation which should go away in a short time .
Keep out of reach of children and in case of allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
( 1800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions Apply daily as a prophylactic to maintain optimum lip fitness .
Use especially during exposure of the lips to heat , sun or cold weather or conditions known to contribute to chapped , cracked or dry lips or cold sore / fever blister outbreaks .
Reapply as often as necessary to maintain soft , supple lips , or every 2 - 4 hours .
For best results , apply as a base coat on the lips under a waterproof sunscreen during sun exposure .
Do not share this product with anyone .
Do not use this product if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product .
Other information Store at room temperature 68 to 77 ° F ( 20 to 25 ° C ) .
For best results avoid brushing teeth or drinking soft drinks or juice for up to one hour after application of this product .
Inactive ingredients Benzyl Alcohol , Clove ( syzygium aromaticum ) bud oil , Commint oil ( menthe arvensis ) Crystals , Hydrolyzed Jojoba Esters , Jojobo Esters , Lemon ( melissa officinalis ) balm oil , Peppermint ( menthe piperita ) oil , Propylene Glycol , Stevia and Xylitol ( natural sweeteners ) Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 3 COLDSOR ( 1 - 866 - 326 - 5376 ) M - F 9 am - 5 pm or visit our website at www . killmycoldsore . com Distributed by : JojobaDerm Labs , 291 E El Prado Ct . , Chandler , AZ 85225 BLAST IT WITH BLISTER BALM !
COMPARE TO THE LEADING BRAND * Stainless Steel Roller Ball 100 % Natural Active | Mint & Clove Flavor | Moisturizing Formula Condition Lips to Avoid Breakouts | Stainless Steel Roller Ball Delivery LIP PROTECTANT * Blister Balm Protective Lip Treatment contains 60 % more long chain alcohols than the leading brand .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
