[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Physicians planning to use penicillamine should thoroughly familiarize themselves with its toxicity , special dosage considerations , and therapeutic benefits .
Penicillamine should never be used casually .
Each patient should remain constantly under the close supervision of the physician .
Patients should be warned to report promptly any symptoms suggesting toxicity .
DESCRIPTION Penicillamine is a chelating agent used in the treatment of Wilson ' s disease .
It is also used to reduce cystine excretion in cystinuria and to treat patients with severe , active rheumatoid arthritis unresponsive to conventional therapy ( see INDICATIONS ) .
It is 3 - mercapto - D - valine .
It is a white or practically white , crystalline powder , freely soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol , and insoluble in ether , acetone , benzene , and carbon tetrachloride .
Although its configuration is D , it is levorotatory as usually measured : [ MULTIMEDIA ] calculated on a dried basis .
The molecular formula is C5H11NO2S , giving it a molecular weight of 149 . 21 g / mol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It reacts readily with formaldehyde or acetone to form a thiazolidine - carboxylic acid .
Penicillamine capsules for oral administration contain 250 mg of penicillamine .
Each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose .
The capsule shell contains black pharmaceutical ink , D & C yellow # 10 , gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The capsule imprinting black ink contains ammonium hydroxide 28 % , iron oxide black , propylene glycol and shellac .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Penicillamine is a chelating agent recommended for the removal of excess copper in patients with Wilson ' s disease .
From in vitro studies which indicate that one atom of copper combines with two molecules of penicillamine , it would appear that one gram of penicillamine should be followed by the excretion of about 200 milligrams of copper ; however , the actual amount excreted is about one percent of this .
Penicillamine also reduces excess cystine excretion in cystinuria .
This is done , at least in part , by disulfide interchange between penicillamine and cystine , resulting in formation of penicillamine - cysteine disulfide , a substance that is much more soluble than cystine and is excreted readily .
Penicillamine interferes with the formation of cross - links between tropocollagen molecules and cleaves them when newly formed .
The mechanism of action of penicillamine in rheumatoid arthritis is unknown although it appears to suppress disease activity .
Unlike cytotoxic immunosuppressants , penicillamine markedly lowers IgM rheumatoid factor but produces no significant depression in absolute levels of serum immunoglobulins .
Also unlike cytotoxic immunosuppressants which act on both , penicillamine in vitro depresses T - cell activity but not B - cell activity .
In vitro , penicillamine dissociates macroglobulins ( rheumatoid factor ) although the relationship of the activity to its effect in rheumatoid arthritis is not known .
In rheumatoid arthritis , the onset of therapeutic response to penicillamine capsules may not be seen for two or three months .
In those patients who respond , however , the first evidence of suppression of symptoms such as pain , tenderness , and swelling is generally apparent within three months .
The optimum duration of therapy has not been determined .
If remissions occur , they may last from months to years , but usually require continued treatment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In all patients receiving penicillamine , it is important that penicillamine capsulesbe given on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals , and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food , milk , antacid , zinc or iron - containing preparation .
This permits maximum absorption and reduces the likelihood of inactivation by metal binding in the gastrointestinal tract .
Pharmacokinetics Penicillamine is absorbed rapidly but incompletely ( 40 to 70 % ) from the gastrointestinal tract , with wide interindividual variations .
Food , antacids , and iron reduce absorption of the drug .
The peak plasma concentration of penicillamine occurs 1 to 3 hours after ingestion ; it is approximately 1 to 2 mg / L after an oral dose of 250 mg .
The drug appears in the plasma as free penicillamine , penicillamine disulfide , and cysteine - penicillamine disulfide .
When prolonged treatment is stopped , there is a slow elimination phase lasting 4 to 6 days .
More than 80 % of plasma penicillamine is bound to proteins , especially albumin and ceruloplasmin .
The drug also binds to erythrocytes and macrophages .
A small fraction of the dose is metabolized in the liver to S - methyl - D - penicillamine .
Excretion is mainly renal , mainly as disulfides .
INDICATIONS Penicillamine capsulesare indicated in the treatment of Wilson ' s disease , cystinuria , and in patients with severe , active rheumatoid arthritis who have failed to respond to an adequate trial of conventional therapy .
Available evidence suggests that penicillamine capsules are not of value in ankylosing spondylitis .
Wilson ’ s Disease — Wilson ’ s disease ( hepatolenticular degeneration ) occurs in individuals who have inherited an autosomal recessive defect that leads to an accumulation of copper far in excess of metabolic requirements .
The excess copper is deposited in several organs and tissues , and eventually produces pathological effects primarily in the liver , where damage progresses to postnecrotic cirrhosis , and in the brain , where degeneration is widespread .
Copper is also deposited as characteristic , asymptomatic , golden - brown Kayser - Fleischer rings in the corneas of all patients with cerebral symptomatology and some patients who are either asymptomatic or manifest only hepatic symptomatology .
Two types of patients require treatment for Wilson ' s disease : ( 1 ) the symptomatic , and ( 2 ) the asymptomatic in whom it can be assumed the disease will develop in the future if the patient is not treated .
The diagnosis , if suspected on the basis of family or individual history or physical examination , can be confirmed if the plasma copper - protein ceruloplasmin ** is < 20 mg / dL and either a quantitative determination in a liver biopsy specimen shows an abnormally high concentration of copper ( > 250 mcg / g dry weight ) or Kayser - Fleischer rings are present .
Treatment has two objectives : ( 1 ) to minimize dietary intake of copper ; ( 2 ) to promote excretion and complex formation ( i . e . , detoxification ) of excess tissue copper .
The first objective is attained by a daily diet that contains no more than one or two milligrams of copper .
Such a diet should exclude , most importantly , chocolate , nuts , shellfish , mushrooms , liver , molasses , broccoli , and cereals and dietary supplements enriched with copper , and be composed to as great an extent as possible of foods with a low copper content .
Distilled or demineralized water should be used if the patient ' s drinking water contains more than 0 . 1 mg of copper per liter .
[ 1 ] For the second objective , a copper chelating agent is used .
In symptomatic patients this treatment usually produces marked neurologic improvement , fading of Kayser - Fleischer rings , and gradual amelioration of hepatic dysfunction and psychic disturbances .
Clinical experience to date suggests that life is prolonged with the above regimen .
Noticeable improvement may not occur for one to three months .
Occasionally , neurologic symptoms become worse during initiation of therapy with penicillamine capsules .
Despite this , the drug should not be withdrawn .
Temporary interruption carries an increased risk of developing a sensitivity reaction upon resumption of therapy , although it may result in clinical improvement of neurological symptoms ( see WARNINGS ) .
If the neurological symptoms and signs continue to worsen for a month after the initiation of penicillamine capsules therapy , several short courses of treatment with 2 , 3 - dimercaprol ( BAL ) while continuing penicillamine capsules may be considered .
Treatment of asymptomatic patients has been carried out for over thirty years .
Symptoms and signs of the disease appear to be prevented indefinitely if daily treatment with penicillamine capsules is continued .
Cystinuria — Cystinuria is characterized by excessive urinary excretion of the dibasic amino acids , arginine , lysine , ornithine , and cystine , and the mixed disulfide of cysteine and homocysteine .
The metabolic defect that leads to cystinuria is inherited as an autosomal , recessive trait .
Metabolism of the affected amino acids is influenced by at least two abnormal factors : ( 1 ) defective gastrointestinal absorption and ( 2 ) renal tubular dysfunction .
Arginine , lysine , ornithine , and cysteine are soluble substances , readily excreted .
There is no apparent pathology connected with their excretion in excessive quantities .
Cystine , however , is so slightly soluble at the usual range of urinary pH that it is not excreted readily , and so crystallizes and forms stones in the urinary tract .
Stone formation is the only known pathology in cystinuria .
Normal daily output of cystine is 40 mg to 80 mg .
In cystinuria , output is greatly increased and may exceed 1 g / day .
At 500 to 600 mg / day , stone formation is almost certain .
When it is more than 300 mg / day , treatment is indicated .
Conventional treatment is directed at keeping urinary cystine diluted enough to prevent stone formation , keeping the urine alkaline enough to dissolve as much cystine as possible , and minimizing cystine production by a diet low in methionine ( the major dietary precursor of cystine ) .
Patients must drink enough fluid to keep urine specific gravity below 1 . 010 , take enough alkali to keep urinary pH at 7 . 5 to 8 , and maintain a diet low in methionine .
This diet is not recommended in growing children and probably is contraindicated in pregnancy because of its low protein content ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
When these measures are inadequate to control recurrent stone formation , penicillamine capsulesmay be used as additional therapy , and when patients refuse to adhere to conventional treatment , penicillamine capsulesmay be a useful substitute .
It is capable of keeping cystine excretion to near normal values , thereby hindering stone formation and the serious consequences of pyelonephritis and impaired renal function that develop in some patients .
Bartter and colleagues depict the process by which penicillamine interacts with cystine to form penicillamine cysteine mixed disulfide as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] In this process , it is assumed that the deprotonated form of penicillamine , PS ' , is the active factor in bringing about the disulfide interchange .
Rheumatoid Arthritis — Because penicillamine capsules can cause severe adverse reactions , its use in rheumatoid arthritis should be restricted to patients who have severe , active disease and who have failed to respond to an adequate trial of conventional therapy .
Even then , benefit - to - risk ratio should be carefully considered .
Other measures , such as rest , physiotherapy , salicylates , and corticosteroids should be used , when indicated , in conjunction with penicillamine capsules ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
[ 1 ] ** For quantitative test for serum ceruloplasmin see : Morell , A . G . ; Windsor , J . ; Sternlieb , I . ; Scheinberg , I . H . : Measurement of the concentration of ceruloplasmin in serum by determination of its oxidase activity , in “ Laboratory Diagnosis of Liver Disease ” , F . W . Sunderman ; F . W . Sunderman , Jr . ( eds . )
, St . Louis , Warren H . Green , Inc . , 1968 , pp . 193 - 195 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Except for the treatment of Wilson ' s disease or certain patients with cystinuria , use of penicillamine during pregnancy is contraindicated ( see WARNINGS ) .
Although breast milk studies have not been reported in animals or humans , mothers on therapy with penicillamine should not nurse their infants .
Patients with a history of penicillamine - related aplastic anemia or agranulocytosis should not be restarted on penicillamine ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Because of its potential for causing renal damage , penicillamine should not be administered to rheumatoid arthritis patients with a history or other evidence of renal insufficiency .
WARNINGS The use of penicillamine has been associated with fatalities due to certain diseases such as aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , Goodpasture ' s syndrome , and myasthenia gravis .
Because of the potential for serious hematological and renal adverse reactions to occur at any time , routine urinalysis , white and differential blood cell count , hemoglobin determination , and direct platelet count must be done twice weekly , together with monitoring of the patient ' s skin , lymph nodes and body temperature , during the first month of therapy , every two weeks for the next five months , and monthly thereafter .
Patients should be instructed to report promptly the development of signs and symptoms of granulocytopenia and / or thrombocytopenia such as fever , sore throat , chills , bruising or bleeding .
The above laboratory studies should then be promptly repeated .
Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have been reported to occur in up to five percent of patients during penicillamine therapy .
Leukopenia is of the granulocytic series and may or may not be associated with an increase in eosinophils .
A confirmed reduction in WBC below 3500 / mm3 mandates discontinuance of penicillamine therapy .
Thrombocytopenia may be on an idiosyncratic basis , with decreased or absent megakaryocytes in the marrow , when it is part of an aplastic anemia .
In other cases the thrombocytopenia is presumably on an immune basis since the number of megakaryocytes in the marrow has been reported to be normal or sometimes increased .
The development of a platelet count below 100 , 000 / mm3 , even in the absence of clinical bleeding , requires at least temporary cessation of penicillamine therapy .
A progressive fall in either platelet count or WBC in three successive determinations , even though values are still within the normal range , likewise requires at least temporary cessation .
Proteinuria and / or hematuria may develop during therapy and may be warning signs of membranous glomerulopathy which can progress to a nephrotic syndrome .
Close observation of these patients is essential .
In some patients the proteinuria disappears with continued therapy ; in others , penicillamine must be discontinued .
When a patient develops proteinuria or hematuria the physician must ascertain whether it is a sign of drug induced glomerulopathy or is unrelated to penicillamine .
Rheumatoid arthritis patients who develop moderate degrees of proteinuria may be continued cautiously on penicillamine therapy , provided that quantitative 24 - hour urinary protein determinations are obtained at intervals of one to two weeks .
Penicillamine dosage should not be increased under these circumstances .
Proteinuria which exceeds 1 g / 24 hours , or proteinuria which is progressively increasing , requires either discontinuance of the drug or a reduction in the dosage .
In some patients , proteinuria has been reported to clear following reduction in dosage .
In rheumatoid arthritis patients penicillamine should be discontinued if unexplained gross hematuria or persistent microscopic hematuria develops .
In patients with Wilson ' s disease or cystinuria the risks of continued penicillamine therapy in patients manifesting potentially serious urinary abnormalities must be weighed against the expected therapeutic benefits .
When penicillamine is used in cystinuria , an annual x - ray for renal stones is advised .
Cystine stones form rapidly , sometimes in six months .
Up to one year or more may be required for any urinary abnormalities to disappear after penicillamine has been discontinued .
Because of rare reports of intrahepatic cholestasis and toxic hepatitis , liver function tests are recommended every six months for the duration of therapy .
In Wilson ’ s disease , these are recommended every three months , at least during the first year of treatment .
Goodpasture ' s syndrome has occurred rarely .
The development of abnormal urinary findings associated with hemoptysis and pulmonary infiltrates on x - ray requires immediate cessation of penicillamine .
Obliterative bronchiolitis has been reported rarely .
The patient should be cautioned to report immediately pulmonary symptoms such as exertional dyspnea , unexplained cough or wheezing .
Pulmonary function studies should be considered at that time .
Onset of new neurological symptoms has been reported with penicillamine capsules ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Occasionally , neurological symptoms become worse during initiation of therapy with penicillamine capsules ( see INDICATIONS ) .
Myasthenic syndrome sometimes progressing to myasthenia gravis has been reported .
Ptosis and diplopia , with weakness of the extraocular muscles , are often early signs of myasthenia .
In the majority of cases , symptoms of myasthenia have receded after withdrawal of penicillamine .
Most of the various forms of pemphigus have occurred during treatment with penicillamine .
Pemphigus vulgaris and pemphigus foliaceus are reported most frequently , usually as a late complication of therapy .
The seborrhea - like characteristics of pemphigus foliaceus may obscure an early diagnosis .
When pemphigus is suspected , penicillamine capsulesshould be discontinued .
Treatment has consisted of high doses of corticosteroids alone or , in some cases , concomitantly with an immunosuppressant .
Treatment may be required for only a few weeks or months , but may need to be continued for more than a year .
Once instituted for Wilson ' s disease or cystinuria , treatment with penicillamine should , as a rule , be continued on a daily basis .
Interruptions for even a few days have been followed by sensitivity reactions after reinstitution of therapy .
Pregnancy Category D Penicillamine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Penicillamine has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses 6 times higher than the highest dose recommended for human use .
Skeletal defects , cleft palates and fetal toxicity ( resorptions ) have been reported .
There are no controlled studies on the use of penicillamine in pregnant women .
Although normal outcomes have been reported , characteristic congenital cutis laxa and associated birth defects have been reported in infants born of mothers who received therapy with penicillamine during pregnancy .
Penicillamine should be used in women of childbearing potential only when the expected benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Women on therapy with penicillamine who are of childbearing potential should be apprised of this risk , advised to report promptly any missed menstrual periods or other indications of possible pregnancy , and followed closely for early recognition of pregnancy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Wilson ' s Disease — Reported experience *** shows that continued treatment with penicillamine throughout pregnancy protects the mother against relapse of the Wilson ' s disease , and that discontinuation of penicillamine has deleterious effects on the mother , which may be fatal .
If penicillamine is administered during pregnancy to patients with Wilson ' s disease , it is recommended that the daily dosage be limited to 750 mg .
If cesarean section is planned the daily dose should be reduced to 250 mg , but not lower , for the last six weeks of pregnancy and postoperatively until wound healing is complete .
Cystinuria — If possible , penicillamine should not be given during pregnancy to women with cystinuria ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
There are reports of women with cystinuria on therapy with penicillamine who gave birth to infants with generalized connective tissue defects who died following abdominal surgery .
If stones continue to form in these patients , the benefits of therapy to the mother must be evaluated against the risk to the fetus .
Rheumatoid Arthritis — Penicillamine should not be administered to rheumatoid arthritis patients who are pregnant ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) and should be discontinued promptly in patients in whom pregnancy is suspected or diagnosed .
There is a report that a woman with rheumatoid arthritis treated with less than one gram a day of penicillamine during pregnancy gave birth ( cesarean delivery ) to an infant with growth retardation , flattened face with broad nasal bridge , low set ears , short neck with loose skin folds , and unusually lax body skin .
[ 1 ] [ 1 ] *** Scheinberg , I . H . ; Sternlieb , I . : N . Engl .
J . Med .
293 : 1300 - 1302 , Dec . 18 , 1975 .
PRECAUTIONS Some patients may experience drug fever , a marked febrile response to penicillamine , usually in the second to third week following initiation of therapy .
Drug fever may sometimes be accompanied by a macular cutaneous eruption .
In the case of drug fever in patients with Wilson ' s disease or cystinuria , penicillamine should be temporarily discontinued until the reaction subsides .
Then penicillamine should be reinstituted with a small dose that is gradually increased until the desired dosage is attained .
Systemic steroid therapy may be necessary , and is usually helpful , in such patients in whom drug fever and rash develop several times .
In the case of drug fever in rheumatoid arthritis patients , because other treatments are available , penicillamine should be discontinued and another therapeutic alternative tried since experience indicates that the febrile reaction will recur in a very high percentage of patients upon readministration of penicillamine .
The skin and mucous membranes should be observed for allergic reactions .
Early and late rashes have occurred .
Early rash occurs during the first few months of treatment and is more common .
It is usually a generalized pruritic , erythematous , maculopapular or morbilliform rash and resembles the allergic rash seen with other drugs .
Early rash usually disappears within days after stopping penicillamine and seldom recurs when the drug is restarted at a lower dosage .
Pruritus and early rash may often be controlled by the concomitant administration of antihistamines .
Less commonly , a late rash may be seen , usually after six months or more of treatment , and requires discontinuation of penicillamine .
It is usually on the trunk , is accompanied by intense pruritus , and is usually unresponsive to topical corticosteroid therapy .
Late rash may take weeks to disappear after penicillamine is stopped and usually recurs if the drug is restarted .
The appearance of a drug eruption accompanied by fever , arthralgia , lymphadenopathy or other allergic manifestations usually requires discontinuation of penicillamine .
Certain patients will develop a positive antinuclear antibody ( ANA ) test and some of these may show a lupus erythematosus - like syndrome similar to drug - induced lupus associated with other drugs .
The lupus erythematosus - like syndrome is not associated with hypocomplementemia and may be present without nephropathy .
The development of a positive ANA test does not mandate discontinuance of the drug ; however , the physician should be alerted to the possibility that a lupus erythematosus - like syndrome may develop in the future .
Some patients may develop oral ulcerations which in some cases have the appearance of aphthous stomatitis .
The stomatitis usually recurs on rechallenge but often clears on a lower dosage .
Although rare , cheilosis , glossitis and gingivostomatitis have also been reported .
These oral lesions are frequently dose - related and may preclude further increase in penicillamine dosage or require discontinuation of the drug .
Hypogeusia ( a blunting or diminution in taste perception ) has occurred in some patients .
This may last two to three months or more and may develop into a total loss of taste ; however , it is usually self - limited despite continued penicillamine treatment .
Such taste impairment is rare in patients with Wilson ' s disease .
Penicillamine should not be used in patients who are receiving concurrently gold therapy , antimalarial or cytotoxic drugs , oxyphenbutazone or phenylbutazone because these drugs are also associated with similar serious hematologic and renal adverse reactions .
Patients who have had gold salt therapy discontinued due to a major toxic reaction may be at greater risk of serious adverse reactions with penicillamine but not necessarily of the same type .
Patients who are allergic to penicillin may theoretically have cross - sensitivity to penicillamine .
The possibility of reactions from contamination of penicillamine by trace amounts of penicillin has been eliminated now that penicillamine is being produced synthetically rather than as a degradation product of penicillin .
Patients with Wilson ’ s disease or cystinuria should be given 25 mg / day of pyridoxine during therapy , since penicillamine increases the requirement for this vitamin .
Patients also may receive benefit from a multivitamin preparation , although there is no evidence that deficiency of any vitamin other than pyridoxine is associated with penicillamine .
In Wilson ' s disease , multivitamin preparations must be copper - free .
Rheumatoid arthritis patients whose nutrition is impaired should also be given a daily supplement of pyridoxine .
Mineral supplements should not be given , since they may block the response to penicillamine .
Iron deficiency may develop , especially in pediatric patients and in menstruating women .
In Wilson ' s disease , this may be a result of adding the effects of the low copper diet , which is probably also low in iron , and the penicillamine to the effects of blood loss or growth .
In cystinuria , a low methionine diet may contribute to iron deficiency , since it is necessarily low in protein .
If necessary , iron may be given in short courses , but a period of two hours should elapse between administration of penicillamine and iron , since orally administered iron has been shown to reduce the effects of penicillamine .
Penicillamine causes an increase in the amount of soluble collagen .
In the rat this results in inhibition of normal healing and also a decrease in tensile strength of intact skin .
In man this may be the cause of increased skin friability at sites especially subject to pressure or trauma , such as shoulders , elbows , knees , toes , and buttocks .
Extravasations of blood may occur and may appear as purpuric areas , with external bleeding if the skin is broken , or as vesicles containing dark blood .
Neither type is progressive .
There is no apparent association with bleeding elsewhere in the body and no associated coagulation defect has been found .
Therapy with penicillamine may be continued in the presence of these lesions .
They may not recur if dosage is reduced .
Other reported effects probably due to the action of penicillamine on collagen are excessive wrinkling of the skin and development of small , white papules at venipuncture and surgical sites .
The effects of penicillamine on collagen and elastin make it advisable to consider a reduction in dosage to 250 mg / day , when surgery is contemplated .
Reinstitution of full therapy should be delayed until wound healing is complete .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal carcinogenicity studies have not been done with penicillamine .
There is a report that five of ten autoimmune disease - prone NZB hybrid mice developed lymphocytic leukemia after 6 months ' intraperitoneal treatment with a dose of 400 mg / kg penicillamine 5 days per week .
Penicillamine is directly mutagenic to S . typhimurium strain TA92 in the Ames test ; mutagenicity is enhanced by kidney post - mitochondrial subcellular fraction 9 .
Penicillamine does not induce gene mutations in Chinese hamster V79 cells .
Penicillamine induces sister - chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations in cultivated mammalian cells .
No studies on the effect of penicillamine on fertility are available .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D ( see WARNINGS , Pregnancy ) Nursing Mothers See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Pediatric Use The efficacy of penicillamine capsulesin juvenile rheumatoid arthritis has not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of penicillamine capsules are limited in subjects aged 65 and over , they did not include sufficient numbers of elderly subjects aged 65 and over to adequately determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Review of reported clinical trials with penicillamine in the elderly suggest greater risk than in younger patients for overall skin rash and abnormality of taste .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drugs .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and careful monitoring of renal function is recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Penicillamine is a drug with a high incidence of untoward reactions , some of which are potentially fatal .
Therefore , it is mandatory that patients receiving penicillamine therapy remain under close medical supervision throughout the period of drug administration ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Reported incidences ( % ) for the most commonly occurring adverse reactions in rheumatoid arthritis patients are noted , based on 17 representative clinical trials reported in the literature ( 1270 patients ) .
Allergic — Generalized pruritus , early and late rashes ( 5 % ) , pemphigus ( see WARNINGS ) , and drug eruptions which may be accompanied by fever , arthralgia , or lymphadenopathy have occurred ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Some patients may show a lupus erythematosus - like syndrome similar to drug - induced lupus produced by other pharmacological agents ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Urticaria and exfoliative dermatitis have occurred .
Thyroiditis has been reported ; hypoglycemia in association with anti - insulin antibodies has been reported .
These reactions are extremely rare .
Some patients may develop a migratory polyarthralgia , often with objective synovitis ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Gastrointestinal — Anorexia , epigastric pain , nausea , vomiting , or occasional diarrhea may occur ( 17 % ) .
Isolated cases of reactivated peptic ulcer have occurred , as have hepatic dysfunction including hepatic failure , and pancreatitis .
Intrahepatic cholestasis and toxic hepatitis have been reported rarely .
There have been a few reports of increased serum alkaline phosphatase , lactic dehydrogenase , and positive cephalin flocculation and thymol turbidity tests .
Some patients may report a blunting , diminution , or total loss of taste perception ( 12 % ) ; or may develop oral ulcerations .
Although rare , cheilosis , glossitis , and gingivostomatitis have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal side effects are usually reversible following cessation of therapy .
Hematological — Penicillamine can cause bone marrow depression ( see WARNINGS ) .
Leukopenia ( 2 % ) and thrombocytopenia ( 4 % ) have occurred .
Fatalities have been reported as a result of thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and sideroblastic anemia .
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura , hemolytic anemia , red cell aplasia , monocytosis , leukocytosis , eosinophilia , and thrombocytosis have also been reported .
Renal — Patients on penicillamine therapy may develop proteinuria ( 6 % ) and / or hematuria which , in some , may progress to the development of the nephrotic syndrome as a result of an immune complex membranous glomerulopathy ( see WARNINGS ) .
Renal failure has been reported .
Central Nervous System — Tinnitus , optic neuritis and peripheral sensory and motor neuropathies ( including polyradiculoneuropathy , i . e . , Guillain - Barré syndrome ) have been reported .
Muscular weakness may or may not occur with the peripheral neuropathies .
Visual and psychic disturbances ; mental disorders ; and agitation and anxiety have been reported .
Neuromuscular — Myasthenia gravis ( see WARNINGS ) ; dystonia .
Other — Adverse reactions that have been reported rarely include thrombophlebitis ; hyperpyrexia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; falling hair or alopecia ; lichen planus ; polymyositis ; dermatomyositis ; mammary hyperplasia ; elastosis perforans serpiginosa ; toxic epidermal necrolysis ; anetoderma ( cutaneous macular atrophy ) ; and Goodpasture ' s syndrome , a severe and ultimately fatal glomerulonephritis associated with intra - alveolar hemorrhage ( see WARNINGS ) .
Vasculitis , including fatal renal vasculitis , has also been reported .
Allergic alveolitis , obliterative bronchiolitis , interstitial pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis , some of whom were receiving penicillamine .
Bronchial asthma also has been reported .
Increased skin friability , excessive wrinkling of skin , and development of small white papules at venipuncture and surgical sites have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; yellow nail syndrome .
The chelating action of the drug may cause increased excretion of other heavy metals such as zinc , mercury and lead .
There have been reports associating penicillamine with leukemia .
However , circumstances involved in these reports are such that a cause and effect relationship to the drug has not been established .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In all patients receiving penicillamine , it is important that penicillamine capsulesbe given on an empty stomach , at least one hour before meals or two hours after meals , and at least one hour apart from any other drug , food , or milk .
Because penicillamine increases the requirement for pyridoxine , patients may require a daily supplement of pyridoxine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Wilson ' s Disease — Optimal dosage can be determined by measurement of urinary copper excretion and the determination of free copper in the serum .
The urine must be collected in copper - free glassware , and should be quantitatively analyzed for copper before and soon after initiation of therapy with penicillamine capsules .
Determination of 24 - hour urinary copper excretion is of greatest value in the first week of therapy with penicillamine .
In the absence of any drug reaction , a dose between 0 . 75 g and 1 . 5 g that results in an initial 24 - hour cupriuresis of over 2 mg should be continued for about three months , by which time the most reliable method of monitoring maintenance treatment is the determination of free copper in the serum .
This equals the difference between quantitatively determined total copper and ceruloplasmin - copper .
Adequately treated patients will usually have less than 10 mcg free copper / dL of serum .
It is seldom necessary to exceed a dosage of 2 g / day .
If the patient is intolerant to therapy with penicillamine capsules , alternative treatment is trientine hydrochloride .
In patients who cannot tolerate as much as 1 g / day initially , initiating dosage with 250 mg / day , and increasing gradually to the requisite amount , gives closer control of the effects of the drug and may help to reduce the incidence of adverse reactions .
Cystinuria — It is recommended that penicillamine capsulesbe used along with conventional therapy .
By reducing urinary cystine , it decreases crystalluria and stone formation .
In some instances , it has been reported to decrease the size of , and even to dissolve , stones already formed .
The usual dosage of penicillamine capsules in the treatment of cystinuria is 2 g / day for adults , with a range of 1 to 4 g / day .
For pediatric patients , dosage can be based on 30 mg / kg / day .
The total daily amount should be divided into four doses .
If four equal doses are not feasible , give the larger portion at bedtime .
If adverse reactions necessitate a reduction in dosage , it is important to retain the bedtime dose .
Initiating dosage with 250 mg / day , and increasing gradually to the requisite amount , gives closer control of the effects of the drug and may help to reduce the incidence of adverse reactions .
In addition to taking penicillamine capsules , patients should drink copiously .
It is especially important to drink about a pint of fluid at bedtime and another pint once during the night when urine is more concentrated and more acid than during the day .
The greater the fluid intake , the lower the required dosage of penicillamine capsules .
Dosage must be individualized to an amount that limits cystine excretion to 100 - 200 mg / day in those with no history of stones , and below 100 mg / day in those who have had stone formation and / or pain .
Thus , in determining dosage , the inherent tubular defect , the patient ' s size , age , and rate of growth , and his diet and water intake all must be taken into consideration .
The standard nitroprusside cyanide test has been reported useful as a qualitative measure of the effective dose : † Add 2 mL of freshly prepared 5 percent sodium cyanide to 5 mL of a 24 - hour aliquot of protein - free urine and let stand ten minutes .
Add 5 drops of freshly prepared 5 percent sodium nitroprusside and mix .
Cystine will turn the mixture magenta .
If the result is negative , it can be assumed that cystine excretion is less than 100 mg / g creatinine .
Although penicillamine is rarely excreted unchanged , it also will turn the mixture magenta .
If there is any question as to which substance is causing the reaction , a ferric chloride test can be done to eliminate doubt : Add 3 percent ferric chloride dropwise to the urine .
Penicillamine will turn the urine an immediate and quickly fading blue .
Cystine will not produce any change in appearance .
[ 1 ] Rheumatoid Arthritis — The principal rule of treatment with penicillamine capsulesin rheumatoid arthritis is patience .
The onset of therapeutic response is typically delayed .
Two or three months may be required before the first evidence of a clinical response is noted ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
When treatment with penicillamine capsules has been interrupted because of adverse reactions or other reasons , the drug should be reintroduced cautiously by starting with a lower dosage and increasing slowly .
Initial Therapy — The currently recommended dosage regimen in rheumatoid arthritis begins with a single daily dose of 125 mg or 250 mg , which is thereafter increased at one to three month intervals , by 125 mg or 250 mg / day , as patient response and tolerance indicate .
If a satisfactory remission of symptoms is achieved , the dose associated with the remission should be continued ( see Maintenance Therapy ) .
If there is no improvement and there are no signs of potentially serious toxicity after two to three months of treatment with doses of 500 - 750 mg / day , increases of 250 mg / day at two to three month intervals may be continued until a satisfactory remission occurs ( see Maintenance Therapy ) or signs of toxicity develop ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
If there is no discernible improvement after three to four months of treatment with 1000 to 1500 mg of penicillamine / day , it may be assumed the patient will not respond and penicillamine capsulesshould be discontinued .
Maintenance Therapy — The maintenance dosage of penicillamine capsulesmust be individualized , and may require adjustment during the course of treatment .
Many patients respond satisfactorily to a dosage within the 500 mg / day to 750 mg / day range .
Some need less .
Changes in maintenance dosage levels may not be reflected clinically or in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate for two to three months after each dosage adjustment .
Some patients will subsequently require an increase in the maintenance dosage to achieve maximal disease suppression .
In those patients who do respond , but who evidence incomplete suppression of their disease after the first six to nine months of treatment , the daily dosage of penicillamine capsulesmay be increased by 125 mg / day or 250 mg / day at three - month intervals .
It is unusual in current practice to employ a dosage in excess of 1 g / day , but up to 1 . 5 g / day has sometimes been required .
Management of Exacerbations — During the course of treatment some patients may experience an exacerbation of disease activity following an initial good response .
These may be self - limited and can subside within twelve weeks .
They are usually controlled by the addition of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , and only if the patient has demonstrated a true " escape " phenomenon ( as evidenced by failure of the flare to subside within this time period ) should an increase in the maintenance dose ordinarily be considered .
In the rheumatoid patient , migratory polyarthralgia due to penicillamine is extremely difficult to differentiate from an exacerbation of the rheumatoid arthritis .
Discontinuance or a substantial reduction in dosage of penicillamine capsulesfor up to several weeks will usually determine which of these processes is responsible for the arthralgia .
Duration of Therapy — The optimum duration of therapy with penicillamine capsules in rheumatoid arthritis has not been determined .
If the patient has been in remission for six months or more , a gradual , stepwise dosage reduction in decrements of 125 mg or 250 mg / day at approximately three months intervals may be attempted .
Concomitant Drug Therapy — penicillamine capsulesshould not be used in patients who are receiving gold therapy , antimalarial or cytotoxic drugs , oxyphenbutazone , or phenylbutazone ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Other measures , such as salicylates , other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , or systemic corticosteroids , may be continued when penicillamine is initiated .
After improvement commences , analgesic and anti - inflammatory drugs may be slowly discontinued as symptoms permit .
Steroid withdrawal must be done gradually , and many months of treatment with penicillamine capsulesmay be required before steroids can be completely eliminated .
Dosage Frequency — Based on clinical experience , dosages up to 500 mg / day can be given as a single daily dose .
Dosages in excess of 500 mg / day should be administered in divided doses .
[ 1 ] † Lotz , M . ; Potts , J . T . and Bartter , F . C . : Brit .
Med .
J . 2 : 521 , Aug . 28 , 1965 ( in Medical Memoranda ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Penicillamine capsules are hard gelatin capsules with ivory , opaque body and ivory , opaque cap .
The capsules are imprinted with " APO " and " PEN " over " 250 " in black ink .
White to off - white granular fill .
They are supplied as follows : Bottle of 100 , NDC 60505 - 4696 - 1 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted from 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tightly closed container with a child - resistant cap .
APOTEX INC .
Penicillamine Capsules , USP 250 mg Manufactured by Manufactured for Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , FL Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : January 2020 Revision : 4 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL APOTEX CORP .
NDC 60505 - 4696 - 1 Penicillamine Capsules , USP 250 mg Rx 100 count [ MULTIMEDIA ]
