Active ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 25 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use • • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Warnings When using this product , if irritation occurs discontinue use .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • • apply toothpaste onto a toothbrush • • brush teeth thoroughly , preferably after each meal or at least twice a day , and not more than 3 times a day , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • to minimize swallowing for children under 6 years of age , use a pea - sized amount and supervise brushing and rinsing until good habits are established .
• • children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , hydrated silica , sorbitol , glycerin , PEG - 8 , sodium lauryl sulfate , flavor , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium citrate , sodium saccharin , zinc chloride , iron oxides , red 30 , blue 1 Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 897 - 5623 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0604 - 01 Aquafresh ® triple protection ® fluoride toothpaste pure breath action Sugar Acid Protection ** from Fluoride EXTREME CLEAN ® WITH MICRO - ACTIVE FOAMING ACTION + WHITENING for 80 % cleaner , purer breath * NET WT 5 . 6 OZ ( 158 . 8 g ) fresh mint Aquafresh ® Extreme Clean ® Pure Breath Action toothpaste creates micro - active foam which seeks out hard to reach places and rinses clear to leave your teeth clean and smooth .
It neutralizes bad breath odors for 80 % cleaner , purer breath .
* Take the Feeling of Clean to the Extreme !
® ** With Sugar Acid Protection provided by fluoride , which strengthens enamel , creating a shield that protects the tooth surface against sugar acid attack .
triple protection ® • • healthy gums † • • strong teeth • • fresh breath † with twice daily brushing * immediately after brushing versus a zinc free toothpaste ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2015 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
All rights reserved .
GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 1 - 800 - 897 - 5623 105483 XA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
