RECENT MAJOR CHANGES • Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) 11 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AUVI - Q ® is indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions ( Type I ) including anaphylaxis to stinging insects ( e . g . , order Hymenoptera , which include bees , wasps , hornets , yellow jackets and fire ants ) and biting insects ( e . g . , triatoma , mosquitoes ) , allergen immunotherapy , foods , drugs , diagnostic testing substances ( e . g . , radiocontrast media ) and other allergens , as well as idiopathic anaphylaxis or exercise - induced anaphylaxis .
AUVI - Q is intended for immediate administration in patients who are determined to be at increased risk for anaphylaxis , including individuals with a history of anaphylactic reactions .
Anaphylactic reactions may occur within minutes after exposure and consist of flushing , apprehension , syncope , tachycardia , thready or unobtainable pulse associated with a fall in blood pressure , convulsions , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps , involuntary voiding , wheezing , dyspnea due to laryngeal spasm , pruritus , rashes , urticaria or angioedema .
AUVI - Q is intended for immediate self - administration as emergency supportive therapy only and is not a substitute for immediate medical care .
AUVI - Q contains epinephrine , a non - selective alpha and beta - adrenergic receptor agonist , indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions ( Type I ) including anaphylaxis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Selection of the appropriate dosage strength ( AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg , AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg or AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg ) is determined according to patient body weight . Selection of the appropriate dosage strength ( AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg , AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg or AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg ) is determined according to patient body weight .
• Patients greater than or equal to 30 kg ( approximately 66 pounds or more ) : AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg • Patients 15 to 30 kg ( 33 to 66 pounds ) : AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg • Patients 7 . 5 to 15 kg ( 16 . 5 to 33 pounds ) : AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg Inject AUVI - Q intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , through clothing if necessary .
Instruct caregivers of young children and infants who are prescribed AUVI - Q and who may be uncooperative and kick or move during an injection to hold the child ’ s leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during an injection [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Each AUVI - Q contains a single dose of epinephrine for single - use injection .
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from AUVI - Q are fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0 . 1 mg are deemed necessary .
Each AUVI - Q contains a single dose of epinephrine for single - use injection .
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from AUVI - Q are fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0 . 1 mg are deemed necessary .
The prescriber should carefully assess each patient to determine the most appropriate dose of epinephrine , recognizing the life - threatening nature of the reactions for which this drug is indicated .
With severe persistent anaphylaxis , repeat injections with an additional AUVI - Q may be necessary .
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ ] .
The prescriber should carefully assess each patient to determine the most appropriate dose of epinephrine , recognizing the life - threatening nature of the reactions for which this drug is indicated .
With severe persistent anaphylaxis , repeat injections with an additional AUVI - Q may be necessary .
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The epinephrine solution in the viewing window of AUVI - Q should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the outer case provided to protect it from light [ ] .
The epinephrine solution in the viewing window of AUVI - Q should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the outer case provided to protect it from light [ see STORAGE AND HANDLING ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
• Patients greater than or equal to 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) : AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg ( 2 ) • Patients 15 to 30 kg ( 33 to 66 lbs ) : AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg ( 2 ) • Patients 7 . 5 to 15 kg ( 16 . 5 to 33 lbs ) : AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg ( 2 ) Inject AUVI - Q intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , through clothing if necessary .
Each device is a single - use injection .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Injection , 0 . 3 mg / 0 . 3 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector • Injection , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 15 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector • Injection , 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 1 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector • Injection , 0 . 3 mg : 0 . 3 mg / 0 . 3 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector ( 3 ) • Injection , 0 . 15 mg : 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 15 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector ( 3 ) • Injection , 0 . 1 mg : 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 1 mL epinephrine injection , USP , pre - filled auto - injector ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • In conjunction with use , seek immediate medical or hospital care .
( 5 . 1 ) • Do not inject intravenously , into buttock , or into digits , hands , or feet .
( 5 . 2 ) • To minimize the risk of injection - related injury , instruct caregivers to hold the child ’ s leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during injection when administering to young children or infants .
( 5 . 2 ) • Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections have been reported following epinephrine injection .
Advise patients to seek medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of infection at the epinephrine injection site .
( 5 . 3 ) • The presence of a sulfite in this product should not deter use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Administer with caution in patients with heart disease ; may aggravate angina pectoris or produce ventricular arrhythmias .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 EMERGENCY TREATMENT AUVI - Q is not intended as a substitute for immediate medical care .
In conjunction with the administration of epinephrine , the patient should seek immediate medical or hospital care .
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 INJECTION - RELATED COMPLICATIONS AUVI - Q should ONLY be injected into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
• Do not inject intravenously .
Large doses or accidental intravenous injection of epinephrine may result in cerebral hemorrhage due to sharp rise in blood pressure .
Rapidly acting vasodilators can counteract the marked pressor effects of epinephrine if there is such inadvertent administration .
• Do not inject into buttock .
Injection into the buttock may not provide effective treatment of anaphylaxis .
Advise the patient to go immediately to the nearest emergency room for further treatment of anaphylaxis .
Additionally , injection into the buttock has been associated with Clostridial infections ( gas gangrene ) .
Cleansing with alcohol does not kill bacterial spores , and therefore , does not lower this risk .
• Do not inject into digits , hands or feet .
Since epinephrine is a strong vasoconstrictor , accidental injection into the digits , hands or feet may result in loss of blood flow to the affected area .
Advise the patient to go immediately to the nearest emergency room and to inform the healthcare provider in the emergency room of the location of the accidental injection .
Treatment of such inadvertent administration should consist of vasodilation , in addition to further appropriate treatment of anaphylaxis [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ] .
• Hold leg firmly during injection .
To minimize the risk of injection - related injury when administering AUVI - Q to young children or infants , instruct caregivers to hold the child ’ s leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during injection .
5 . 3 SERIOUS INFECTIONS AT THE INJECTION SITE Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections , including necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis caused by Clostridia ( gas gangrene ) , have been reported at the injection site following epinephrine injection for anaphylaxis .
Clostridium spores can be present on the skin and introduced into the deep tissue with subcutaneous or intramuscular injection .
While cleansing with alcohol may reduce the presence of bacteria on the skin , alcohol cleansing does not kill Clostridium spores .
To decrease the potential risk of a rare , but serious Clostridium infection , do not inject AUVI - Q into the buttock [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to seek medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of infection , such as persistent redness , warmth , swelling , or tenderness , at the epinephrine injection site .
5 . 4 ALLERGIC REACTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH SULFITE Epinephrine is the preferred treatment for serious allergic reactions or other emergency situations even though this product contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may , in other products , cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms or life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible persons .
The presence of a sulfite in this product should not deter administration of the drug for treatment of serious allergic or other emergency situations even if the patient is sulfite - sensitive .
The alternatives to using epinephrine in a life - threatening situation may not be satisfactory .
5 . 5 DISEASE INTERACTIONS Some patients may be at greater risk for developing adverse reactions after epinephrine administration .
Despite these concerns , it should be recognized that the presence of these conditions is not a contraindication to epinephrine administration in an acute , life - threatening situation .
Therefore , patients with these conditions , and / or any other person who might be in a position to administer AUVI - Q to a patient experiencing anaphylaxis should be carefully instructed in regard to the circumstances under which epinephrine should be used .
• Patients with Heart Disease Epinephrine should be administered with caution to patients who have heart disease , including patients with cardiac arrhythmias , coronary artery or organic heart disease , or hypertension .
In such patients , or in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias , epinephrine may precipitate or aggravate angina pectoris as well as produce ventricular arrhythmias [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) and ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ] .
• Other Patients and Diseases Epinephrine should be administered with caution to patients with hyperthyroidism , diabetes , elderly individuals , and pregnant women .
Patients with Parkinson ’ s disease may notice a temporary worsening of symptoms .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Due to lack of randomized , controlled clinical trials of epinephrine for the treatment of anaphylaxis , the true incidence of adverse reactions associated with the systemic use of epinephrine is difficult to determine .
Adverse reactions reported in observational trials , case reports , and studies are listed below .
Common adverse reactions to systemically administered epinephrine include anxiety ; apprehensiveness ; restlessness ; tremor ; weakness ; dizziness ; sweating ; palpitations ; pallor ; nausea and vomiting ; headache ; and / or respiratory difficulties .
These symptoms occur in some persons receiving therapeutic doses of epinephrine , but are more likely to occur in patients with hypertension or hyperthyroidism [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Arrhythmias , including fatal ventricular fibrillation , have been reported , particularly in patients with underlying cardiac disease or those receiving certain drugs [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
Rapid rises in blood pressure have produced cerebral hemorrhage , particularly in elderly patients with cardiovascular disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Angina may occur in patients with coronary artery disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Rare cases of stress cardiomyopathy have been reported in patients treated with epinephrine .
Accidental injection into the digits , hands or feet may result in loss of blood flow to the affected area [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Adverse events experienced as a result of accidental injections may include increased heart rate , local reactions including injection site pallor , coldness and hypoesthesia or injury at the injection site resulting in bruising , bleeding , discoloration , erythema or skeletal injury .
Injection of epinephrine into the buttock has resulted in cases of gas gangrene [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections , including necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis caused by Clostridia ( gas gangrene ) , have been reported at the injection site following epinephrine injection in the thigh [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Adverse reactions to epinephrine include anxiety , apprehensiveness , restlessness , tremor , weakness , dizziness , sweating , palpitations , pallor , nausea and vomiting , headache , and / or respiratory difficulties .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact kaleo , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 828 - 8472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking cardiac glycosides , diuretics , or anti - arrhythmics should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , levothyroxine sodium , and certain antihistamines , notably chlorpheniramine , tripelennamine , and diphenhydramine .
The cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine are antagonized by beta - adrenergic blocking drugs , such as propranolol .
The vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine are antagonized by alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs , such as phentolamine .
Ergot alkaloids may also reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine .
• Cardiac glycosides or diuretics : observe for development of cardiac arrhythmias .
( 7 ) • Tricyclic antidepressants , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , levothyroxine sodium , and certain antihistamines : potentiate effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) • Beta - adrenergic blocking drugs : antagonize cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) • Alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs : antagonize vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) • Ergot alkaloids : may reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Elderly patients may be at greater risk of developing adverse reactions .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of the acute effect of epinephrine in pregnant women .
Epinephrine was teratogenic in rabbits , mice and hamsters .
Epinephrine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus ( fetal anoxia , spontaneous abortion , or both ) .
Epinephrine has been shown to have teratogenic effects when administered subcutaneously in rabbits at approximately 30 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m 2 basis at a maternal dose of 1 . 2 mg / kg / day for two to three days ) , in mice at approximately 7 times the maximum daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m 2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 1 mg / kg / day for 10 days ) , and in hamsters at approximately 5 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m 2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day for 4 days ) .
These effects were not seen in mice at approximately 3 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose ( on a mg / m 2 basis at a subcutaneous maternal dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day for 10 days ) .
8 . 3 NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether epinephrine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when AUVI - Q is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 PEDIATRIC USE AUVI - Q may be administered to pediatric patients at a dosage appropriate to body weight [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) ] .
Clinical experience with the use of epinephrine suggests that the adverse reactions seen in children are similar in nature and extent to those both expected and reported in adults .
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from AUVI - Q are fixed , consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0 . 1 mg are deemed necessary .
8 . 5 GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of AUVI - Q did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Epinephrine should be administered with caution in elderly individuals , who may be at greater risk for developing adverse reactions after epinephrine administration [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) , OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of epinephrine may produce extremely elevated arterial pressure , which may result in cerebrovascular hemorrhage , particularly in elderly patients .
Overdosage may also result in pulmonary edema because of peripheral vascular constriction together with cardiac stimulation .
Treatment consists of rapidly acting vasodilators or alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs and / or respiratory support .
Epinephrine overdosage can also cause transient bradycardia followed by tachycardia , and these may be accompanied by potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias .
Premature ventricular contractions may appear within one minute after injection and may be followed by multifocal ventricular tachycardia ( prefibrillation rhythm ) .
Subsidence of the ventricular effects may be followed by atrial tachycardia and occasionally by atrioventricular block .
Treatment of arrhythmias consists of administration of a beta - adrenergic blocking drug such as propranolol .
Overdosage sometimes results in extreme pallor and coldness of the skin , metabolic acidosis , and kidney failure .
Suitable corrective measures must be taken in such situations .
11 DESCRIPTION AUVI - Q ( epinephrine injection , USP ) 0 . 3 mg , 0 . 15 mg and 0 . 1 mg is an auto - injector and a combination product containing drug and device components .
AUVI - Q includes audible ( electronic voice instructions , beeps ) and visible ( LED lights ) cues for use .
The needle automatically retracts after the injection is complete .
Each AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg delivers a single dose of 0 . 3 mg epinephrine from epinephrine injection , USP ( 0 . 3 mL ) in a sterile solution .
Each AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg delivers a single dose of 0 . 15 mg epinephrine from epinephrine injection , USP ( 0 . 15 mL ) in a sterile solution .
Each AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg delivers a single dose of 0 . 1 mg epinephrine from epinephrine injection , USP ( 0 . 1 mL ) in a sterile solution .
AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg , AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg and AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg each contain 0 . 76 mL epinephrine solution .
0 . 3 mL , 0 . 15 mL and 0 . 1 mL epinephrine solution is dispensed for AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg , AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg and AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg , respectively , when activated .
The remaining solution is not available for future use and should be discarded .
Each 0 . 3 mL in AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg contains 0 . 3 mg epinephrine , 2 . 3 mg sodium chloride , 0 . 5 mg sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid to adjust pH , and water for injection .
The pH range is 2 . 2 – 5 . 0 .
Each 0 . 15 mL in AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg contains 0 . 15 mg epinephrine , 1 . 2 mg sodium chloride , 0 . 2 mg sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid to adjust pH , and water for injection .
The pH range is 2 . 2 – 5 . 0 .
Each 0 . 1 mL in AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg contains 0 . 1 mg epinephrine , 0 . 78 mg sodium chloride , 0 . 15 mg sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid to adjust pH , and water for injection .
The pH range is 2 . 2 – 5 . 0 .
Epinephrine is a sympathomimetic catecholamine .
Chemically , epinephrine is ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epinephrine solution deteriorates rapidly on exposure to air or light , turning pink from oxidation to adrenochrome and brown from the formation of melanin .
AUVI - Q is not made with natural rubber latex .
AUVI - Q instructional and safety systems should be thoroughly reviewed with patients and caregivers prior to use [ see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 MECHANISM OF ACTION Epinephrine acts on both alpha and beta - adrenergic receptors .
12 . 2 PHARMACODYNAMICS Through its action on alpha - adrenergic receptors , epinephrine lessens the vasodilation and increased vascular permeability that occurs during anaphylaxis , which can lead to loss of intravascular fluid volume and hypotension .
Through its action on beta - adrenergic receptors , epinephrine causes bronchial smooth muscle relaxation and helps alleviate bronchospasm , wheezing and dyspnea that may occur during anaphylaxis .
Epinephrine also alleviates pruritus , urticaria , and angioedema and may relieve gastrointestinal and genitourinary symptoms associated with anaphylaxis because of its relaxer effects on the smooth muscle of the stomach , intestine , uterus and urinary bladder .
When given subcutaneously or intramuscularly , epinephrine has a rapid onset and short duration of action .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of epinephrine have not been conducted .
Epinephrine and other catecholamines have been shown to have mutagenic potential in vitro and to be an oxidative mutagen in a WP2 bacterial reverse mutation assay .
Epinephrine was positive in the DNA Repair test with B . subtilis ( REC ) assay , but was not mutagenic in the Salmonella bacterial reverse mutation assay .
The potential for epinephrine to impair fertility has not been evaluated .
This should not prevent the use of epinephrine under the conditions noted under INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 HOW SUPPLIED Carton containing two AUVI - Q ( epinephrine injection , USP ) 0 . 3 mg auto - injectors and a single AUVI - Q Trainer - NDC 60842 - 023 - 01 Carton containing two AUVI - Q ( epinephrine injection , USP ) 0 . 15 mg auto - injectors and a single AUVI - Q Trainer - NDC 60842 - 022 - 01 Carton containing two AUVI - Q ( epinephrine injection , USP ) 0 . 1 mg auto - injectors and a single AUVI - Q Trainer - NDC 60842 - 021 - 01 Rx only 16 . 2 STORAGE AND HANDLING Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the outer case provided to protect it from light .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate .
Before using , check to make sure the solution in the auto - injector is clear and colorless .
Replace the auto - injector if the solution is discolored , cloudy , or contains particles .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) ] A healthcare provider should review the patient instructions and operation of AUVI - Q , in detail , with the patient or caregiver .
Epinephrine is essential for the treatment of anaphylaxis .
Patients who are at risk of or with a history of severe allergic reactions ( anaphylaxis ) to insect stings or bites , foods , drugs , and other allergens , as well as idiopathic and exercise - induced anaphylaxis , should be carefully instructed about the circumstances under which epinephrine should be used .
Administration and Training Instruct patients and / or caregivers in the appropriate use of AUVI - Q .
AUVI - Q should be injected into the middle of the outer thigh ( through clothing , if necessary ) .
Each device is a single - use injection .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical care in conjunction with administration of AUVI - Q .
Young children or infants may be uncooperative and kick or move during an injection .
Instruct caregivers to hold the leg of young children or infants firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during injection .
[ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] Complete patient information , including dosage , directions for proper administration and precautions can be found inside each AUVI - Q carton .
Review AUVI - Q ’ s instructional and safety systems with patients and / or caregivers .
These systems include the printed label on the surface of AUVI - Q showing instructions for use and a diagram depicting the injection process , an automatic needle retraction system , visual prompts , electronic beeps , and voice instructions for use .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers that the needle will not be visible after the injection and they may not feel the injection when it occurs .
Instruct patients that AUVI - Q includes a 2 - second countdown after it is activated and then the voice instructions will indicate the injection is complete and to seek emergency medical attention .
Instruct patients that AUVI - Q ’ s black base will lock up onto the device housing and the lights will blink red after the injection is complete .
These post - use indicators help patients and / or caregivers know that AUVI - Q has been activated and an epinephrine injection administered .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers to use and practice with the Trainer to familiarize themselves with the use of AUVI - Q in an allergic emergency .
The Trainer may be used multiple times .
Adverse Reactions Epinephrine may produce symptoms and signs that include an increase in heart rate , the sensation of a more forceful heartbeat , palpitations , sweating , nausea and vomiting , difficulty breathing , pallor , dizziness , weakness or shakiness , headache , apprehension , nervousness , or anxiety .
These symptoms and signs usually subside rapidly , especially with rest , quiet and recumbency .
Patients with hypertension or hyperthyroidism may develop more severe or persistent effects , and patients with coronary artery disease could experience angina .
Patients with diabetes may develop increased blood glucose levels following epinephrine administration .
Patients with Parkinson ’ s disease may notice a temporary worsening of symptoms [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Accidental Injection Patients should be advised to seek immediate medical care in the case of accidental injection .
Since epinephrine is a strong vasoconstrictor when injected into the digits , hands , or feet , treatment should be directed at vasodilatation if there is such an accidental injection to these areas [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Serious Infections at the Injection Site Rare cases of serious skin and soft tissue infections , including necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis caused by Clostridia ( gas gangrene ) , have been reported at the injection site following epinephrine injection for anaphylaxis .
Advise patients to seek medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of infection , such as persistent redness , warmth , swelling , or tenderness , at the epinephrine injection site [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Storage and Handling Patients should be instructed to inspect the epinephrine solution visually through the viewing window periodically .
AUVI - Q should be replaced if the epinephrine solution appears discolored ( pinkish color or darker than slightly yellow ) , cloudy , or contains particles .
Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the outer case provided to protect it from light .
Instruct patients that AUVI - Q must be used or properly disposed once the red safety guard is removed [ see STORAGE AND HANDLING ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
Complete patient information , including dosage , directions for proper administration and precautions can be found inside each AUVI - Q carton .
Manufactured for : Kaleo , Inc .
Richmond , VA 23219 USA This product may be covered by one or more U . S . patents or pending patent applications .
See www . kaleopharma . com / pat for details .
* For California Only : This product uses batteries containing Perchlorate Material – special handling may apply .
See www . dtsc . ca . gov / hazardouswaste / perchlorate PATIENT INFORMATION AUVI - Q ® ( epinephrine injection ) Auto - Injector For allergic emergencies ( anaphylaxis ) Read this Patient Information Leaflet before you have to use AUVI - Q and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
You should know how to use AUVI - Q before you have an allergic emergency .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about AUVI - Q ?
• Always carry AUVI - Q with you because you may not know when a life - threatening allergic reaction ( anaphylactic reaction ) may happen .
Talk to your doctor if you need additional units to keep at work , school , etc .
An anaphylactic reaction is a life - threatening allergic reaction that can happen within minutes and can be caused by stinging and biting insects ( bees , wasps , hornets , and mosquitoes ) , allergy shots , foods , medicines , exercise , or other unknown causes .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions on when to use AUVI - Q if you have the symptoms of an anaphylactic reaction , which may include the symptoms listed below : • trouble breathing • wheezing • hoarseness ( changes in the way your voice sounds ) • hives ( raised reddened rash that may itch ) • severe itching • swelling of your face , lips , mouth or tongue • skin rash , redness , or swelling • fast heartbeat • weak pulse • feeling very anxious • confusion • stomach pain • losing control of urine or bowel movements • dizziness or fainting • Tell your family members and others where you keep AUVI - Q and how to use it before you need it .
You may be unable to speak in an allergic emergency .
• Get medical attention immediately after using AUVI - Q .
If you have a serious allergic reaction , you may need more medicine .
What is AUVI - Q ?
AUVI - Q is a prescription medicine used to treat life - threatening allergic reactions including anaphylaxis in people who are at risk for or have a history of serious allergic reactions .
AUVI - Q is for immediate self ( or caregiver ) administration and does not take the place of emergency medical care .
You should get emergency medical help right away after using AUVI - Q .
It is not known if AUVI - Q is safe and effective in children who weigh less than 16 . 5 pounds ( 7 . 5 kg ) .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using AUVI - Q ?
Before you use AUVI - Q , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have heart problems or high blood pressure • have diabetes • have thyroid problems • have history of depression • have Parkinson ’ s disease • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if AUVI - Q will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if AUVI - Q passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
AUVI - Q and other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
AUVI - Q may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how AUVI - Q works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use AUVI - Q ?
• Each AUVI - Q contains only 1 dose of medicine .
• AUVI - Q should only be injected into the muscle of your outer thigh .
It can be injected through your clothing , if needed .
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information Leaflet for information about the right way to use AUVI - Q .
• Use AUVI - Q exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• A Trainer for AUVI - Q with a separate Trainer Instructions for Use leaflet is included with AUVI - Q .
Additional training resources are available at www . auvi - q . com .
• Practice with the Trainer for AUVI - Q before an allergic emergency happens to make sure you are able to safely use the real AUVI - Q in an emergency .
• The Trainer for AUVI - Q does not contain a needle or medicine and can be reused to practice your injection .
What are the possible side effects of AUVI - Q ?
AUVI - Q may cause serious side effects .
• AUVI - Q should only be injected into your outer thigh .
Do not inject AUVI - Q into your : • veins • buttocks • fingers , toes , hands or feet If you accidentally inject AUVI - Q into any other part of your body , go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
Tell the healthcare provider where on your body you received the accidental injection .
• Rarely , patients who use AUVI - Q may develop infections at the injection site within a few days of an injection .
Some of these infections can be serious .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following at an injection site : • redness that does not go away • swelling • tenderness • the area feels warm to the touch • If you inject a young child or infant with AUVI - Q , hold their leg firmly in place before and during the injection to prevent injuries .
Ask your healthcare provider to show you how to properly hold the leg of a young child or infant during an injection .
• If you have certain medical conditions , or take certain medicines , your condition may get worse or you may have more or longer lasting side effects when you use AUVI - Q .
Talk to your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions .
Common side effects of AUVI - Q include : • fast , irregular , or ‘ pounding ’ heart beat • sweating • shakiness • headache • paleness • feelings of over excitement , nervousness , or anxiety • weakness • dizziness • nausea and vomiting • breathing problems Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of AUVI - Q .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store AUVI - Q ?
• Store AUVI - Q at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Do NOT expose to extreme heat or cold .
For example , do NOT store in your vehicle ’ s glove box .
Do not store AUVI - Q in the refrigerator or freeze .
• Examine contents in the viewing window periodically .
Solution should be clear .
If the solution is discolored ( pinkish color or darker than slightly yellow ) , cloudy or contains solid particles , replace the unit .
• Your AUVI - Q has an expiration date .
Replace it before the expiration date .
• Keep AUVI - Q in the outer case it comes in to protect it from light .
Keep AUVI - Q and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of AUVI - Q : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use AUVI - Q for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give AUVI - Q to other people , even if they have an allergic reaction or the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about AUVI - Q .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about AUVI - Q that is written for health professionals .
For more information and video instructions on the use of AUVI - Q , go to www . auvi - q . com or call 1 - 844 - 828 - 8472 .
What are the ingredients in AUVI - Q ?
Active ingredient : epinephrine .
Inactive Ingredients : sodium chloride , sodium bisulfite , hydrochloric acid , and water .
AUVI - Q does not contain latex .
Instructions for Use Read these Instructions for Use carefully before you need to use your AUVI - Q .
Before you use AUVI - Q , make sure your healthcare provider shows you the right way to use it .
If you have any questions , ask your healthcare provider .
If you are administering AUVI - Q to a young child or infant , hold the leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and while administering an injection .
Automated Voice Instructions AUVI - Q contains an electronic voice instruction system to help guide you through each step of your injection .
If the voice instructions do not work for any reason , use AUVI - Q as instructed in these Instructions for Use .
It will still work during an allergic reaction emergency .
How to use your AUVI - Q Figure A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Pull AUVI - Q up from the outer case .
See Figure B . Do not go to step 2 until you are ready to use AUVI - Q .
If you are not ready to use AUVI - Q , put it back in the outer case .
Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Pull Red safety guard down and off of AUVI - Q .
See Figure C . To reduce the chance of an accidental injection , do not touch the black base of the auto - injector , which is where the needle comes out .
If an accidental injection happens , get medical help right away .
Note : The red safety guard is made to fit tight .
Pull firmly to remove .
Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Place black end of AUVI - Q against the middle of the outer thigh ( through clothing , if needed ) , then push firmly until you hear a click and hiss sound , and hold in place for 2 seconds .
See Figure D . Only inject into the middle of the outer thigh .
Do not inject into any other part of the body .
If you are administering AUVI - Q to a young child or infant , hold the leg firmly in place while administering an injection See Figure E . Figure D . ( For AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg and AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E . ( For AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : AUVI - Q makes a distinct sound ( click and hiss ) when you push it against your outer thigh .
This is normal and indicates AUVI - Q is working correctly .
Do not pull AUVI - Q away from your leg when you hear the click and hiss sound .
The needle automatically retracts after the injection is complete , so the needle will not be visible after the injection .
AUVI - Q includes a 2 - second countdown after it is activated , then the voice instruction will indicate the injection is complete , and to seek emergency medical attention , AUVI - Q will beep , and the lights will blink red .
4 .
Get emergency medical help right away .
Replace the outer case and talk to your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away your AUVI - Q .
Ask your healthcare provider for an AUVI - Q prescription refill .
After the use of AUVI - Q : • The black base will lock into place .
• The voice instruction system will say “ seek emergency medical attention ” , say “ this AUVI - Q has been used … ” , and the lights will blink red .
• The red safety guard cannot be replaced .
• The viewing window will no longer be clear .
• It is normal for some medicine to remain in your AUVI - Q after you have received your dose of medicine .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away your AUVI - Q .
• AUVI - Q is a single - use auto - injector and cannot be reused .
Until you throw away your used AUVI - Q , the electronic voice instruction system will remind you that it has been used when the outer case is removed .
If you will be administering AUVI - Q to a young child or infant , ask your healthcare provider to show you how to properly hold the leg in place while administering a dose .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Rev Nov 2017 Manufactured for : Kaleo , Inc .
Richmond , VA 23219 USA This product may be covered by one or more U . S . patents or pending patent applications .
See www . kaleopharma . com / pat for details .
* For California Only : This product uses batteries containing Perchlorate Material – special handling may apply .
See www . dtsc . ca . gov / hazardouswaste / perchlorate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TRAINER FOR AUVI - Q ® Trainer Instructions for Use Important : The TRAINER for AUVI - Q Does Not contain a needle or medicine .
In case of an allergic emergency , use the real AUVI - Q and not the gray Trainer .
Always carry your real Auvi - Q with you in case of an allergic emergency .
Important Information about the TRAINER for AUVI - Q : Inside your TRAINER for AUVI - Q are : • batteries • a speaker that will make a beeping sound and that produces electronic voice instructions • red and green blinking lights The TRAINER for AUVI - Q batteries are made to last long enough for you to practice 1 time each day for 2 years .
If your TRAINER for AUVI - Q does not work properly call your healthcare provider for a new Trainer .
What is the TRAINER for AUVI - Q ?
• The TRAINER for AUVI - Q does not contain a needle or medicine and can be reused to practice your injection .
• Practice with the TRAINER for AUVI - Q before an allergic emergency happens to make sure you are able to safely use the real AUVI - Q in an emergency .
Your TRAINER for AUVI - Q Figure A TRAINER for AUVI - Q [ MULTIMEDIA ] Top view [ MULTIMEDIA ] AUVI - Q [ MULTIMEDIA ] AUVI - Q 0 . 3 mg is orange [ MULTIMEDIA ] AUVI - Q 0 . 15 mg is blue [ MULTIMEDIA ] AUVI - Q 0 . 1 mg is white and lavender TRAINER for AUVI - Q : • is inside a gray outer case • does not have a needle or medicine inside • can be reused ( the red safety guard can be placed back on the base of the Trainer after use ) • has no expiration date • has embossed “ TRAINER ” on top of the device AUVI - Q : • is inside an orange ( 0 . 3 mg ) or blue ( 0 . 15 mg ) or white and lavender ( 0 . 1 mg ) outer case • contains a needle and epinephrine medicine • cannot be reused ( the red safety guard cannot be placed back on the base of AUVI - Q after use ) • has a medicine expiration date listed on the device In case of an allergic emergency , use the real AUVI - Q and not the gray Trainer .
Who should practice using the TRAINER for AUVI - Q ?
Anyone who may need to help you with AUVI - Q in case of an allergic emergency : • You • Caregivers • Family • Friends • Co - workers • Teachers • Child Care or Day Care Workers Have them practice using the Trainer and review the Patient Information Leaflet included in the packaging with each prescription of AUVI - Q .
For more information and video instructions on the use of AUVI - Q , go to www . AUVI - Q . com or call 1 - 844 - 828 - 8472 .
Practicing with the TRAINER for AUVI - Q Practice with the TRAINER for AUVI - Q before an allergic emergency happens to make sure you are able to safely use the real AUVI - Q in an emergency .
• You should practice daily for the first week after you receive your TRAINER for AUVI - Q to help you feel comfortable using AUVI - Q quickly and safely .
Even when you are comfortable using the Trainer , continue to practice using it often .
How to Use the Trainer How the TRAINER for AUVI - Q works Although the Trainer does not have a needle and contains no medicine , it works the same way as the real AUVI - Q .
As with the real AUVI - Q , the TRAINER for AUVI - Q contains an electronic voice instruction system to help guide you through each step of your injection .
If the voice instructions do not work for the TRAINER for AUVI - Q for any reason , you can still use the TRAINER for AUVI - Q as instructed in this leaflet to practice .
The TRAINER for AUVI - Q has the same blinking red and green lights as the real AUVI - Q .
As with the real AUVI - Q , if practicing with a young child or infant , hold the leg firmly in place while using the TRAINER for AUVI - Q .
Ask your healthcare provider to show you how to properly hold the leg to practice so that you will be prepared before an allergic emergency happens .
Follow These Steps 1 .
Pull the TRAINER for AUVI - Q from the outer case .
See Figure B2 .
Pull Red safety guard down and off of the Trainer .
See Figure C . Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : The red safety guard is made to fit tight similar to the safety guard on the real AUVI - Q .
Pull firmly to remove .
3 .
Place black end against the middle of the outer thigh ( through clothing , if needed ) , then push firmly until you hear a click and hiss sound , and hold in place for 2 seconds .
See Figure D .
As with the real AUVI - Q , if practicing with a young child or infant , hold the leg firmly in place while using the TRAINER for AUVI - Q .
( See Figure E ) .
Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : In an actual emergency , after the injection you would need to seek medical help right away .
Only practice using the middle of your outer thigh .
The outer thigh is where you would inject with the real Auvi - Q .
Note : The TRAINER for AUVI - Q makes a distinct sound ( click and hiss ) when you push it firmly against your outer thigh .
This is the same sound that is made with the real AUVI - Q .
This is normal , and indicates AUVI - Q is working correctly .
Do not pull AUVI - Q away from your leg when you hear the click and hiss sound .
4 .
After practicing , reset the TRAINER for AUVI - Q : a . Replace the Red safety guard .
Do not hold the black base while inserting the Red safety guard .
The Black base will drop down into its original location during Red safety guard insertion .
See Figure F . b . Slide the TRAINER for AUVI - Q all the way back into the gray outer case to reset the electronic voice system .
See Figure G . Figure F [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : Leave the TRAINER for AUVI - Q in its outer case for at least 5 seconds between each time you practice to allow the electronic voice system to reset .
Storage : • Store the TRAINER for AUVI - Q at room temperature ; the TRAINER for AUVI - Q should not be used at temperatures less than 50 ° F ( 10 ° C ) or greater than 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) .
• Store the TRAINER for AUVI - Q in its outer case .
• Keep the TRAINER for AUVI - Q away from dirt , chemicals , and water .
Disposal : The TRAINER for AUVI - Q contains electronics and lithium coin cell batteries , and should be disposed of in the correct manner .
Follow your State and local environmental regulations for disposal .
For California Only : This product uses batteries containing Perchlorate Material - special handling may apply .
See www . dtsc . ca . gov / hazardouswaste / perchlorate Manufactured for : Kaleo , Inc .
Richmond , VA 23219 USA This product may be covered by one or more U . S . patents or pending patent applications .
See www . kaleopharma . com / pat for details .
Rev Nov 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Outer Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 3 mg Case Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 3 mg Device Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
