Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Isostearyl isostearate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Tocopheryl acetate , Rosa moschata seed oil , Cetearyl alcohol , Dimethiconol , Sodium PCA , Methyparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Tetrasodium EDTA , Magnesium PCA , T - butyl alcohol , Zinc PCA , Biosaccharide gum - 1 , Potassium hydroxide , Manganese PCA , Silica , Potassium sorbate , Ascorbyl palmitate .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 www . boots . com Description No7 Beautiful Skin Collection Give your skin a boost of radiance and hydration with this No7 Beautiful Skin regime collection .
No7 Beautiful Skin Cleansing Lotion Normal / Dry Formulated to help lock in moisture , and enriched with No7 ' s unique multivitamin and mineral blend , to help hydrate and energise skin .
For Best Results : Using cotton wool or your fingers sweep over your skin and wipe off .
No7 Beautiful Skin Radiance Exfoliator Normal / Dry With a special blend of exfoliating particles , this gentle facial exfoliator helps remove dead skin cells and refines pores , leaving skin soft , smooth and glowing with health .
For Best Results : Once or twice a week , gently massage into cleansed , damp skin , avoiding the delicate eye area .
wash away thoroughly with warm water .
No7 Beautiful Skin Day Cream Normal / Dry Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF15 .
A nourishing moisture cream to energise and provide all day hydration .
Provides the perfect base to help make up go on flawlessly whilst leaving skin looking and feeling healthy and radiant .
For Best Results : Smooth into your face and neck after cleansing every morning for make - up ready skin .
No7 Beautiful Skin Night Cream Normal / Dry .
A nourishing moisture cream to energise and promote optimum hydration while you sleep .
Designed to work in harmony with your skin , replacing lost moisture and leaving you with healthy looking radiant skin .
For Best Results : Smooth into your face and neck after cleansing every evening .
carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
