Active Ingredient Purpose Mineral Oil , 100 % Lubricant Laxative Purpose • Gentle relief of occasional constipation Warnings : For rectal use only As a doctor before use if you have : • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • notice a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Indications & Usage • If you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative because this amy indicate a serious condition • you need to use a laxative for more than one week Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Other information : • Store at room temperature 20 Deg C - 25 Deg C ( 68 Deg F - 77 Deg F ) • This product produces bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes Dosage & Administration Single daily dose Adults and children 12 years and older - 1 bottle Children 2 to under 12 years - 1 / 2 bottle Children under 2 years - Do not use .
Consult a physician .
How to use this enema : REMOVE GREEN PROTECTIVE SHIELD BEFORE INSERTING .
Hold bottle upright , grasping bottle cap with fingers .
Grasp protective shield with the other hand and pull gently to remove .
See image on box Positioning Left - side position : Lie on left side with knee bent and arms at rest .
See image on box Knee - chest position : Kneel , then lower head and chest forward until the left side of face is resting on surface .
Position arms comfortably .
See image on box Administering Enema • With steady pressure , gently insert enema with tip pointing toward navel .
• Squeeze bottle until recommended dose is expelled ( it is not necessary to empty unit completely .
Bottle contains more liquid than needed for effective use .
A small amount of liquid will remain in bottle after squeezing ) .
• Remove tip from rectum .
• Stop using if tip is hard to insert .
Forcing the tip into the rectum can cause injury ( especially if you have hemorrhoids ) .
If enema tip causes rectal bleeding or pain , get immediatemedical care .
• Maintain position until urge to evacuate is strong ( usually 1 to 5 minutes ) .
• If no urge is felt after 5 minutes of using , try to empty bowel .
Call a doctor promptly if no liquid comes out of the rectum after 30 minutes because dehydration could occur .
Principal Display Panel Mineral oil enema . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
