Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 075 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses for temporary relieves of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • arthritis • simple backache • bruises Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • use only as directed • do not apply to wounds , damaged , broken or irritated skin • avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes • a slight burning sensation may occur upon application , but generally disappears in several days • if severe burning occurs , discontinue use • do not expose the treated area to heat or direct sunlight • do not banage • do not use with heating pad Stop use and ask a doctor if : • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • redness is present • irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children over 18 years : • apply generously to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed • wash hands with soap and water after use • close cap tightly after use • children 18 years or younger : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see box or see crimp of tube Inactive Ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , ethanol , isopropyl myristate , petrolatum , polyoxyl 40 stearate , orbitan monostearate , sorbitol , water Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - FOR - AVON www . avon . com Principal Display Panel Strong & Effective Pain Relief Arthritis Pain Relief High Potency AVON Temporary relief of pain associated with : • sprains • pains of muscles and joints • arthritis • strains HeXashield ARTHRITIS PAIN RELIEF CREAM CAPSAICIN Add 0 . 075 % Deep Penetratng & Odor Free ARTHRITIS PAIN RELIEF Topical Analgesic Cream NET WT 1 . 5 oz ( 43 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
