Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 0 . 5 % Purpose Anti - Itch Uses For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy , oak or sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of doctor Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if : • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Do not use this product and ask a doctor • if you have a vaginal discharge • before treating diaper rash • before using on children under 2 years of age Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see box or crimp of tube Inactive Ingredients aloe vera leaf , butylated hydroxytolune , ceteth - 20 , cetyl alcohol , methylparaben , mineral oil , propylparaben , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol , water Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - FOR - AVON www . avon . com Principal Display Panel HeXasheild AVON Relieves skin irritation and rashes due to - Eczema - Seborrheic Dermatitis - Detergents - Psoriasis - Poison ivy , Oak & sumac - Jewelry - Insect bites - Soaps - Cosmetics HeXashield ANTI ITCH CREAM WITH HEALING ALOE Fragrance Free plus Soothing Aloe 0 . 5 % hydrocortisone cream Regular strength Sensitive Skin Hydrocortisone Cream REGULAR STRENGTH Anti - Itch Cream NET WT 2 oz ( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
