Active Ingredient Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : - common cold - hay fever - upper respiratory allergies • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • thyroid disease • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur .
• use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • symptoms persist .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor : Shake well before use .
To open , rotate cap to align the marks .
Squeeze cap on both sides in a counterclockwise turn and pull off to remove .
To spray , remove clamp and hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting the head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use and snap cap back onto the bottle .
Other information • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • retain carton for future reference on full labeling Inactive Ingredients benzalkonium chloride , edetate disodium , polyethylene glycol 400 , povidone , propylene glycol , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasi dihydrate , water Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - FOR - AVON www . avon . com Principal Display Panel HeXasheild ORIGINAL NASAL RELIEF SPRAY CONGESTION RELIEF Oxymetazoline HCl - Nasal Decongestant Compare to the active ingredient in Afrin ® Original Rapid & Powerful Congestion Relief 12 Hour Relief AVON • Original Nasal Spray - 12 HOURS • Pump Mist • Anti - Drip NET WT 0 . 5 FL oz ( 15 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
