Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Each mL contains 23 mg of selenium sulfide in a vehicle consisting of : alpha - tocopherol acetate , ammonium lauryl sulfate , citrus fragrance , cocamidopropyl betaine , EDTA , FD & C red No . 40 , FD & C yellow No . 10 , methyl paraben , panthenol , propyl paraben , purified water , pyrithione zinc , urea , xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Selenium sulfide appears to have a cytostatic effect on cells of the epidermis and follicular epithelium , reducing corneocyte production .
Pharmacokinetics : The mechanism of action of topically applied selenium sulfide is not yet known .
INDICATIONS : This product is a liquid antiseborrheic , antifungal preparation useful for the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , dandruff and tinea versicolor .
Urea hydrates and is useful for conditions such as dry scalp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : General : This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Do not use on broken skin or inflamed areas .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Dermal application of 25 % and 50 % solutions of 2 . 5 % selenium sulfide lotion on mice over an 88 - week period indicated no carcinogenic effects .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In decreasing order of severity : skin irritation ; occasional reports of increase in normal hair loss ; discoloration of hair ( can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment ) .
As with other shampoos , oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur .
OVERDOSAGE : There are no documented reports of serious toxicity in humans resulting from acute ingestion of this product .
However , acute toxicity studies in animals suggest that ingestion of large amounts could result in potential human toxicity .
Evacuation of the stomach contents should be considered in cases of acute oral ingestion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Shake well before use .
For seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff : Wet skin and apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into the skin working into a full lather .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Generally , two applications each week for two weeks will control symptoms .
Subsequently , shampoo may be used less frequently or as directed by a physician .
It should not be applied more frequently than necessary to maintain control .
For tinea versicolor : Wet skin and apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into the skin working into a full lather .
Allow product to remain on skin for ten minutes , then rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Repeat procedure once a day for seven days or as directed by a physician .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may darken upon storage .
Discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep container tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED : This product is supplied in the following size ( s ) : 6 fl .
oz .
( 180 mL ) bottles , NDC 63629 - 1149 - 1 To report a serious adverse event , please contact Method Pharmaceuticals at ( 877 ) 250 - 3427 ; email at contact @ methodpharm . com ; or call FDA at ( 800 ) FDA - 1088 .
Selenium Sulfide External Shampoo 2 . 3 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
