Drug Facts Active ingredient Levonorgestrel , USP 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy af ter unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use bir th control ) Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs .
Do not use • • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • • for regular bir th control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
When using this product you may have • • menstrual changes • • tiredness • • dizziness • • nausea • • headache • • breast pain • • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • • vomiting Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it , the better it will work .
• • if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose Other information • • read the instructions , warnings , and enclosed product leaflet before use • • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fer tilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or at tachment of a fer tilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• • do not use if carton is open or tear strip is removed or blister seal is broken or missing • • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , talc Questions or comments ?
For more information , call toll free 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 weekdays • Distributed by : Ohm Laboratories Inc .
New Brunswick , NJ 08901 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 62756 - 720 - 60 † Compare To the active ingredient of Plan B One - Step ® See New Warning My Choice ™ Levonorgestrel Tablet 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive • Reduces the chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex • Not for regular birth control • The sooner you take it , the more effective it will be • Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex • Will not harm an existing pregnancy 1 Tablet Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg One Tablet .
One Step .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
