DESCRIPTION Fomepizole Injection is a competitive inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase .
The chemical name of fomepizole is 4 - methylpyrazole .
It has the molecular formula C4H6N2 and a molecular weight of 82 . 1 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a clear to yellow liquid at room temperature .
Its melting point is 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) and it may present as solid form at room temperature .
Fomepizole is soluble in water and very soluble in ethanol , diethyl ether , and chloroform .
Each vial contains 1 . 5 mL ( 1 g / mL ) of fomepizole .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Fomepizole is a competitive inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase .
Alcohol dehydrogenase catalyzes the oxidation of ethanol to acetaldehyde .
Alcohol dehydrogenase also catalyzes the initial steps in the metabolism of ethylene glycol and methanol to their toxic metabolites .
Ethylene glycol , the main component of most antifreezes and coolants , is metabolized to glycoaldehyde , which undergoes subsequent sequential oxidations to yield glycolate , glyoxylate , and oxalate .
Glycolate and oxalate are the metabolic byproducts primarily responsible for the metabolic acidosis and renal damage seen in ethylene glycol toxicosis .
The lethal dose of ethylene glycol in humans is approximately 1 . 4 mL / kg .
Methanol , the main component of windshield wiper fluid , is slowly metabolized via alcohol dehydrogenase to formaldehyde with subsequent oxidation via formaldehyde dehydrogenase to yield formic acid .
Formic acid is primarily responsible for the metabolic acidosis and visual disturbances ( e . g . , decreased visual acuity and potential blindness ) associated with methanol poisoning .
A lethal dose of methanol in humans is approximately 1 to 2 mL / kg .
Fomepizole has been shown in vitro to block alcohol dehydrogenase enzyme activity in dog , monkey , and human liver .
The concentration of fomepizole at which alcohol dehydrogenase is inhibited by 50 % in vitro is approximately 0 . 1µmol / L .
In a study of dogs given a lethal dose of ethylene glycol , three animals each were administered fomepizole , ethanol , or left untreated ( control group ) .
The three animals in the untreated group became progressively obtunded , moribund , and died .
At necropsy , all three dogs had severe renal tubular damage .
Fomepizole or ethanol , given 3 hours after ethylene glycol ingestion , attenuated the metabolic acidosis and prevented the renal tubular damage associated with ethylene glycol intoxication .
Several studies have demonstrated that fomepizole plasma concentrations of approximately 10 µmol / L ( 0 . 82 mg / L ) in monkeys are sufficient to inhibit methanol metabolism to formate , which is also mediated by alcohol dehydrogenase .
Based on these results , concentrations of fomepizole in humans in the range of 100 to 300 µmol / L ( 8 . 6 to 24 . 6 mg / L ) have been targeted to assure adequate plasma concentrations for the effective inhibition of alcohol dehydrogenase .
In healthy volunteers , oral doses of fomepizole ( 10 to 20 mg / kg ) significantly reduced the rate of elimination of moderate doses of ethanol , which is also metabolized through the action of alcohol dehydrogenase ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Pharmacokinetics : The plasma half - life of fomepizole varies with dose , even in patients with normal renal function , and has not been calculated .
Distribution : After intravenous infusion , fomepizole rapidly distributes to total body water .
The volume of distribution is between 0 . 6 L / kg and 1 . 02 L / kg .
Metabolism : In healthy volunteers , only 1 to 3 . 5 % of the administered dose of fomepizole ( 7 to 20 mg / kg oral and IV ) was excreted unchanged in the urine , indicating that metabolism is the major route of elimination .
In humans , the primary metabolite of fomepizole is 4 - carboxypyrazole ( approximately 80 to 85 % of administered dose ) , which is excreted in the urine .
Other metabolites of fomepizole observed in the urine are 4 - hydroxymethylpyrazole and the N - glucuronide conjugates of 4 - carboxypyrazole and 4 - hydroxymethylpyrazole .
Excretion : The elimination of fomepizole is best characterized by Michaelis - Menten kinetics after acute doses , with saturable elimination occurring at therapeutic blood concentrations [ 100 to 300 µmol / L , 8 . 2 to 24 . 6 mg / L ] .
With multiple doses , fomepizole rapidly induces its own metabolism via the cytochrome P450 mixed - function oxidase system , which produces a significant increase in the elimination rate after about 30 to 40 hours .
After enzyme induction , elimination follows first - order kinetics .
Special Populations : Geriatric : Fomepizole Injection has not been studied sufficiently to determine whether the pharmacokinetics differ for a geriatric population .
Pediatric : Fomepizole has not been studied sufficiently to determine whether the pharmacokinetics differ for a pediatric population .
Gender : Fomepizole has not been studied sufficiently to determine whether the pharmacokinetics differ between the genders .
Renal Insufficiency : The metabolites of fomepizole are excreted renally .
Definitive pharmacokinetic studies have not been done to assess pharmacokinetics in patients with renal impairment .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Fomepizole is metabolized through the liver , but no definitive pharmacokinetic studies have been done in subjects with hepatic disease .
Clinical Studies : The efficacy of fomepizole in the treatment of ethylene glycol and methanol intoxication was studied in two prospective , U . S . clinical trials without concomitant control groups .
Fourteen of 16 patients in the ethylene glycol trial and 7 of 11 patients in the methanol trial underwent hemodialysis because of severe intoxication ( seeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
All patients received fomepizole shortly after admission .
The results of these two studies provide evidence that fomepizole blocks ethylene glycol and methanol metabolism mediated by alcohol dehydrogenase in the clinical setting .
In both studies , plasma concentrations of toxic metabolites of ethylene glycol and methanol failed to rise in the initial phases of treatment .
The relationship to fomepizole therapy , however , was confounded by hemodialysis and significant blood ethanol concentrations in many of the patients .
Nevertheless , in the post - dialysis period ( s ) , when ethanol concentrations were insignificant and the concentrations of ethylene glycol or methanol were > 20 mg / dL , the administration of fomepizole alone blocked any rise in glycolate or formate concentrations , respectively .
In a separate French trial , 5 patients presented with ethylene glycol concentrations ranging from 46 . 5 to 345 mg / dL , insignificant ethanol blood concentrations , and normal renal function .
These patients were treated with fomepizole alone without hemodialysis , and none developed signs of renal injury .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Fomepizole is indicated as an antidote for ethylene glycol ( such as antifreeze ) or methanol poisoning , or for use in suspected ethylene glycol or methanol ingestion , either alone or in combination with hemodialysis ( seeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fomepizole should not be administered to patients with a documented serious hypersensitivity reaction to fomepizole or other pyrazoles .
PRECAUTIONS General : Fomepizole should not be given undiluted or by bolus injection .
Venous irritation and phlebosclerosis were noted in two of six normal volunteers given bolus injections ( over 5 minutes ) of fomepizole at a concentration of 25 mg / mL .
Do not use polycarbonate syringes or polycarbonate - containing needles ( including polycarbonate filter needles ) when diluting or administering Fomepizole Injection , 1 . 5 g / 1 . 5 mL ( 1 g / mL ) .
Fomepizole can interact with polycarbonate , compromising the integrity of the syringe and / or needle component containing polycarbonate .
Minor allergic reactions ( mild rash , eosinophilia ) have been reported in a few patients receiving fomepizole ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Therefore , patients should be monitored for signs of allergic reactions .
Laboratory Tests : In addition to specific antidote treatment with fomepizole , patients intoxicated with ethylene glycol or methanol must be managed for metabolic acidosis , acute renal failure ( ethylene glycol ) , adult respiratory distress syndrome , visual disturbances ( methanol ) , and hypocalcemia .
Fluid therapy and sodium bicarbonate administration are potential supportive therapies .
In addition , potassium and calcium supplementation and oxygen administration are usually necessary .
Hemodialysis is necessary in the anuric patient , or in patients with severe metabolic acidosis or azotemia ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Treatment success should be assessed by frequent measurements of blood gases , pH , electrolytes , BUN , creatinine , and urinalysis , in addition to other laboratory tests as indicated by individual patient conditions .
At frequent intervals throughout the treatment , patients poisoned with ethylene glycol should be monitored for ethylene glycol concentrations in serum and urine , and the presence of urinary oxalate crystals .
Similarly , serum methanol concentrations should be monitored in patients poisoned with methanol .
Electrocardiography should be performed because acidosis and electrolyte imbalances can affect the cardiovascular system .
In the comatose patient , electroencephalography may also be required .
In addition , hepatic enzymes and white blood cell counts should be monitored during treatment , as transient increases in serum transaminase concentrations and eosinophilia have been noted with repeated fomepizole dosing .
Drug Interactions : Oral doses of fomepizole ( 10 to 20 mg / kg ) , via alcohol dehydrogenase inhibition , significantly reduced the rate of elimination of ethanol ( by approximately 40 % ) given to healthy volunteers in moderate doses .
Similarly , ethanol decreased the rate of elimination of fomepizole ( by approximately 50 % ) by the same mechanism .
Reciprocal interactions may occur with concomitant use of fomepizole and drugs that increase or inhibit the cytochrome P450 system ( e . g . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , cimetidine , ketoconazole ) , though this has not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment Of Fertility : There have been no long - term studies performed in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There was a positive Ames test result in the Escherichia coli tester strain WP2uvrA and the Salmonella typhimurium tester strain TA102 in the absence of metabolic activation .
There was no evidence of a clastogenic effect in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In rats , fomepizole ( 110 mg / kg ) administered orally for 40 to 42 days resulted in decreased testicular mass ( approximately 8 % reduction ) .
This dose is approximately 0 . 6 times the human maximum daily exposure based on surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
This reduction was similar for rats treated with either ethanol or fomepizole alone .
When fomepizole was given in combination with ethanol , the decrease in testicular mass was significantly greater ( approximately 30 % reduction ) compared to those rats treated exclusively with fomepizole or ethanol .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with fomepizole .
It is also not known whether fomepizole can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity .
Fomepizole should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether fomepizole is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when fomepizole is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in geriatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse events reported as drug - related or unknown relationship to study drug in the 78 patients and 63 normal volunteers who received fomepizole injection were headache ( 14 % ) , nausea ( 11 % ) , and dizziness , increased drowsiness , and bad taste / metallic taste ( 6 % each ) .
All other adverse events in this population were reported in approximately 3 % or fewer of those receiving fomepizole and were as follows : Body as a Whole : Abdominal pain , fever , multiorgan system failure , pain during fomepizole injection , inflammation at injection site , lumbalgia / backache , hangover .
Cardiovascular : Sinus bradycardia / bradycardia , phlebosclerosis , tachycardia , phlebitis , shock , hypotension .
Gastrointestinal : Vomiting , diarrhea , dyspepsia , heartburn , decreased appetite , transient transaminitis .
Hemic / Lymphatic : Eosinophilia / hypereosinophilia , lymphangitis , disseminated intravascular coagulation anemia .
Nervous : Lightheadedness , seizure , agitation , feeling drunk , facial flush , vertigo , nystagmus , anxiety , " felt strange " , decreased environmental awareness .
Respiratory : Hiccups , pharyngitis .
Skin / Appendages : Application site reaction , rash .
Special Senses : Abnormal smell , speech / visual disturbances , transient blurred vision , roar in ear .
Urogenital : Anuria OVERDOSAGE Nausea , dizziness , and vertigo were noted in healthy volunteers receiving 50 and 100 mg / kg doses of fomepizole ( at plasma concentrations of 290 to 520 µmol / L , 23 . 8 to 42 . 6 mg / L ) .
These doses are 3 to 6 times the recommended dose .
This dose - dependent CNS effect was short - lived in most subjects and lasted up to 30 hours in one subject .
Fomepizole is dialyzable , and hemodialysis may be useful in treating cases of overdosage .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Do not use polycarbonate syringes or polycarbonate - containing needles ( including polycarbonate filter needles ) when diluting or administering Fomepizole Injection , 1 . 5 g / 1 . 5 mL ( 1 g / mL ) .
Fomepizole can interact with polycarbonate , compromising the integrity of the syringe and / or needle component containing polycarbonate .
Treatment Guidelines : If ethylene glycol or methanol poisoning is left untreated , the natural progression of the poisoning leads to accumulation of toxic metabolites , including glycolic and oxalic acids ( ethylene glycol intoxication ) and formic acid ( methanol intoxication ) .
These metabolites can induce metabolic acidosis , nausea / vomiting , seizures , stupor , coma , calcium oxaluria , acute tubular necrosis , blindness , and death .
The diagnosis of these poisonings may be difficult because ethylene glycol and methanol concentrations diminish in the blood as they are metabolized to their respective metabolites .
Hence , both ethylene glycol and methanol concentrations and acid base balance , as determined by serum electrolyte ( anion gap ) and / or arterial blood gas analysis , should be frequently monitored and used to guide treatment .
Treatment consists of blocking the formation of toxic metabolites using inhibitors of alcohol dehydrogenase , such as fomepizole , and correction of metabolic abnormalities .
In patients with high ethylene glycol or methanol concentrations ( ≥ 50 mg / dL ) , significant metabolic acidosis , or renal failure , hemodialysis should be considered to remove ethylene glycol or methanol and the respective toxic metabolites of these alcohols .
Treatment with fomepizole : Begin fomepizole treatment immediately upon suspicion of ethylene glycol or methanol ingestion based on patient history and / or anion gap metabolic acidosis , increased osmolar gap , visual disturbances , or oxalate crystals in the urine , OR a documented serum ethylene glycol or methanol concentration greater than 20 mg / dL .
Hemodialysis : Hemodialysis should be considered in addition to fomepizole in the case of renal failure , significant or worsening metabolic acidosis , or a measured ethylene glycol or methanol concentration of greater than or equal to 50 mg / dL .
Patients should be dialyzed to correct metabolic abnormalities and to lower the ethylene glycol concentrations below 50 mg / dL .
Discontinuation of fomepizole Treatment : Treatment with fomepizole may be discontinued when ethylene glycol or methanol concentrations are undetectable or have been reduced below 20 mg / dL , and the patient is asymptomatic with normal pH . Dosing of fomepizole : A loading dose of 15 mg / kg should be administered , followed by doses of 10 mg / kg every 12 hours for 4 doses , then 15 mg / kg every 12 hours thereafter until ethylene glycol or methanol concentrations are undetectable or have been reduced below 20 mg / dL , and the patient is asymptomatic with normal pH . All doses should be administered as a slow intravenous infusion over 30 minutes ( see Administration ) .
Dosage with Renal Dialysis : Fomepizole Injection is dialyzable and the frequency of dosing should be increased to every 4 hours during hemodialysis .
Fomepizole Dosing in Patients Requiring Hemodialysis DOSE AT THE BEGINNING OF HEMODIALYSIS If < 6 hours since last fomepizole dose If ≥ 6 hours since last fomepizole dose Do not administer dose Administer next scheduled dose DOSING DURING HEMODIALYSIS Dose every 4 hours DOSING AT THE TIME HEMODIALYSIS IS COMPLETED Time between last dose and the end of hemodialysis < 1 hour Do not administer dose at the end of hemodialysis 1 - 3 hours Administer 1 / 2 of next scheduled dose > 3 hours Administer next scheduled dose MAINTENANCE DOSING OFF HEMODIALYSIS Give next scheduled dose 12 hours from last dose administered Administration : Fomepizole solidifies at temperatures less than 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
If the fomepizole solution has become solid in the vial , the solution should be liquefied by running the vial under warm water or by holding in the hand .
Solidification does not affect the efficacy , safety , or stability of fomepizole .
Using sterile technique , the appropriate dose of fomepizole should be drawn from the vial with a non - polycarbonate containing syringe and injected into at least 100 mL of sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection or dextrose 5 % injection .
Mix well .
The entire contents of the resulting solution should be infused over 30 minutes .
Fomepizole , like all parenteral products , should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration .
Stability : Fomepizole diluted in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection or dextrose 5 % injection remains stable and sterile for at least 24 hours when stored refrigerated or at room temperature .
Fomepizole does not contain preservatives .
Therefore , maintain sterile conditions , and after dilution do not use beyond 24 hours .
Solutions showing haziness , particulate matter , precipitate , discoloration , or leakage should not be used .
HOW SUPPLIED Fomepizole Injection is available as a sterile , preservative - free solution for intravenous use , in vials containing1 . 5 mL ( 1 g / mL ) of fomepizole .
Fomepizole injection is supplied in cartons of one single use vial ( NDC 68475 - 510 - 01 ) Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Navinta LLC Ewing , NJ 08618 Revised : 01 / 2023 30271218 R5 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
