Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal Decongestant Uses • ▪ temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • ▪ common cold • ▪ hay fever • ▪ upper respiratory allergies • ▪ temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • ▪ shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ heart disease • ▪ high blood pressure • ▪ thyroid disease • ▪ diabetes • ▪ trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • ▪ do not use more than directed • ▪ do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• ▪ temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • ▪ use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • ▪ adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• ▪ children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor Shake well before use .
Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip by pressing and twisting off the cap .
Rotate the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Lock the pump by ensuring that arrow marks are not aligned and replace the proactive cap on tip .
Other information • ▪ store between 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) • ▪ Retain carton for future reference on full labeling .
TAMPER - EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL OVER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , camphor , edetate disodium , eucalyptol , glycerin , menthol , microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose sodium , polyethylene glycol , povidone , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic , xanthan gum .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel CVS Health ™ Compare to active ingredient in Afrin ® No Drip Severe Congestion Nasal Mist * Severe No - Drip Nasal Mist OXYMETAZOLINE HCL Nasal Decongestant 12 HOUR PUMP MIST • • Fast and Powerful Congestion Relief • • Maximum Strength • • Unique formula with menthol 12 HOURS Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2015 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS CVS ® Quality Money Back Guarantee IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Healthcare LLC , distributor of Afrin ® No Drip Nasal Mist .
Package Label 15 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label Twin Pack 30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
