Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Acetaminophen 325 mg Purposes Pain reliever / fever reducer Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to : • • Headache • • Muscular aches • • Backache • • Minor pain of arthritis • • The common cold • • Toothache • • Premenstrual and menstrual cramps Temporarily reduces fever .
Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if • • adult takes more than 12 tablets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert : acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : • • skin reddening • • blisters • • rash If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or non prescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• • if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • Pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days in adults and children • • Pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under 12 years • • Fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • • New symptoms occur • • Redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions Do not take more than directed AGE DOSE Adults and Children 12 years and over • • Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last • • Do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours Children 6 - 11 years • • Take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last • • Do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours Children under 6 years Do not use adult Regular Strength products in children under 6 years of age ; this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) of acetaminophen and may cause liver damage .
Other information • • Do not use if imprinted Safety Seal under cap is broken or missing • • Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Povidone , Pregelatinized Starch , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Stearic Acid .
Questions ?
If you have any questions or comments , or to report an adverse event , please contact ( 800 ) 795 - 9775 .
Principal Display Panel See New Warnings Information NDC 63187 - 528 - 30 PlusPHARMA Repackaged and Relabeled By : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Regular Strength ACETAMINOPHEN 325 mg PAIN RELIEVER FEVER REDUCER CONTAINS NO ASPIRIN Compare to the Active Ingredient in Regular Strength Tylenol ® * Plus Pharma is not affiliated with the owner of the registered trademark Tylenol ® .
30 TABLETS 325 mg each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
