Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Flammable ● do not use near heat , flame or while smoking ● avoid long – term storage above 104 oF ( 40 oC ) ● do not puncture or incinerate ● contents under pressure ● do not store at temperature above 120 oF ( 49 oC ) .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Hold 4 - 6 inches from skin and spray over arms , legs and body in a continuous motion , then quickly rub into skin .
Do not spray directly onto face ; spray on hands and then apply to face .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Re - apply : • after 80 - minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or high and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun For use on skin only , avoid contact with fabric Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denatured ( 58 . 64 % w / w ) , Phenethyl Benzoate , Lauryl Lactate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Acrylates / Dimethicone Copolymer , Fragrance , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Tocopheryl Acetate Questions Distributed by : Geiss , Destin & Dunn , Inc .
Peach tree City , GA 30269 www . valuelabels . com 800 - 715 - 3485 GoodSense ® is a registered trademark of L . Perrigo Company Principal Display Panel GOODSENSE ® SUNSCREEN CONTINUOUS SPRAY SPORT BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Spray at Any Angle UVA / UVB Protection * Compare and Save 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 155 [ MULTIMEDIA ] g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
