Rx only DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine ( 2 - dimethylaminoethyl 2 - methyl - benzhydryl ether citrate ) .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol .
Each orphenadrine citrate tablet contains 100 mg orphenadrine citrate , USP .
Orphenadrine citrate tablets also contain ethylcellulose NF , povidone USP , lactose monohydrate NF , and magnesium stearate NF .
ACTIONS The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anticholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS Orphenadrine citrate is indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculo - skeletal conditions .
The mode of action of the drug has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardiospasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy category CSafe use of orphenadrine citrate has not been established with respect to adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , orphenadrine citrate should be used in women of childbearing potential and particularly during early pregnancy only when in the judgement of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
USAGE IN CHILDREN Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established ; therefore , this drug is not recommended for use in the pediatric age group .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in a few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , or cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions of orphenadrine are mainly due to the mild anticholinergic action of orphenadrine , and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION TABLETS : Adults - Two tablets per day ; one in the morning and one in the evening .
HOW SUPPLIED Tablets 100 mg - Each round , white , convex tablet imprinted with " G " on one side and " 2011 " on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 42549 - 559 - 30 Bottles of 56 NDC 42549 - 559 - 56 Bottles of 60 NDC 42549 - 559 - 60 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in tightly - closed , light - resistant container ( USP ) .
Manufactured by : Impax Laboratories , Inc .
Hayward , California 94544 Dist .
by : Global Pharmaceuticals Division of IMPAX Laboratories , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19124 GLOBAL ® Rev . 01 / 00 124 - 02 Relabeling and Repackaging by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 Orphenadrine Citrate Extended - Release Tablets 100 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
