Active ingredients Camphor 5 . 5 % Menthol 5 . 5 % Purposes External analgesic External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Warnings For external use only Do not use on wounds on irritated or damaged skin otherwise than as directed When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days excessive irritation of the skin develops nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs when using for pain of arthritis : pain persists for more than 10 days redness is present in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 3 years of age and older : Spray on the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Massage the affected area after spraying .
Alternatively , the product may be sprayed onto medical cotton and lightly bandaged to the affected part .
children under 3 years of age : Do not use , consult a doctor Refer to the above warnings ; use otherwise than as directed may be dangerous .
Other information keep tightly closed store at room temperature 15 째 to 30 째 C ( 59 째 to 86 째 F ) Inactive ingredients aralia armata Aralia armata ( Wall .
Ex G . Don ) Seem root and stem , cinnamon ( Cinnamomum cassia J . Presl . )
twig , dimethyl sulfoxide , gleditsia ( Gleditsia sinensis Lam . )
fruit , methyl salicylate , paniculate swallowwort Pycnostelma paniculatum ( Bge . )
K . Schum herb , St . Thomas bean Entada phaseoloides ( L . ) Merr .
root , and zedoary rhizome .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm you may also report serious side effects to this phone number JIN GU WANG EXTERNAL ANALGESIC NDC 59321 - 032 - 01 2 . 0 fl oz ( 60 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
