Drug Facts Drug Facts Active ingredients Piperonyl butoxide ( 4 % ) Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Purpose Lice treatment Uses Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Warnings For external use only Do not use · near the eyes · inside the nose , mouth , or vagina · on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
· if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product ● keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel ● if product gets in eyes , flush with water right away ● scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if ● breathing difficulty occurs ● eye irritation occurs ● skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ● Important : Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over : Inspect ● check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) ● look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears ● examine small sections of hair at a time ● unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair ● if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product Treat ● apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
● allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer ● use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse ● for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) ● use a fine - tooth or special lice / nit comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
● hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits ● if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water ● for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
● lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
Other information Other information ● keep carton for important product information ● see Consumer Information Insert for additional information ● avoid excessive heat Inactive ingredients ammonium laureth sulfate , dehydrated alcohol , fragrance , isopropyl alcohol , PEG - 25 hydrogenated castor oil , polyquaternium - 10 , purified water Questions or comments Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - RID - LICE ( 1 - 800 - 743 - 5423 ) www . ridlice . com Consumer Information [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RID LICE KILLING SHAMPOO LICE TREATMENT • Proven , effective treatment • Shampoo and conditioner in one • The RID comb is proven 100 % effective for removing lice • East - to - follow illustrated instructions Champu ' RID exterminador de piojos Se incluyen instructiones en espanol 24 / 7 SUPPORT CALL AN EXPERT 1 - 800 - RID - LICE HOW - TO VIDEOS ridlice . com Includes two combs 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) 2 RID LICE COMBS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
