WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR RISK ASSOCIATED WITH RAPID INFUSION RATES The rate of intravenous SESQUIENT administration should not exceed 150 mg phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) per minute in adults because of the risk of severe hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias .
Careful cardiac monitoring is needed during and after administering intravenous SESQUIENT .
Although the risk of cardiovascular toxicity increases with infusion rates above the recommended infusion rate , these events have also been reported at or below the recommended infusion rate .
Reduction in rate of administration or discontinuation of dosing may be needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR RISK ASSOCIATED WITH RAPID INFUSION RATES See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• The rate of intravenous SESQUIENT administration should not exceed 150 mg phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) per minute in adults because of the risk of severe hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias .
• Careful cardiac monitoring is needed during and after administering intravenous SESQUIENT .
• Reduction in rate of administration or discontinuation of dosing may be needed ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SESQUIENT is indicated : • for the treatment of generalized tonic - clonic status epilepticus in adult patients • for the prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during neurosurgery in adult patients .
• for short - term substitution for oral phenytoin in patients 2 years of age and older .
SESQUIENT should be used only when oral phenytoin administration is not possible [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
SESQUIENT is indicated : • for the treatment of generalized tonic - clonic status epilepticus in adult patients ( 1 ) • prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during neurosurgery in adult patients ( 1 ) • for short - term substitution for oral phenytoin in patients 2 years of age and older .
SESQUIENT should be used only when oral phenytoin administration is not possible .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The dose , concentration , and infusion rate of SESQUIENT should always be expressed as phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) ( 2 . 1 ) • For Status Epilepticus in Adults : • Loading dose is 15 mg PE / kg to 20 mg PE / kg at a rate of 100 mg PE / min to 150 mg PE / min ( 2 . 3 ) • For Non - emergent Loading and Maintenance Dosing : • Adult loading dose is 10 mg PE / kg to 20 mg PE / kg given intravenously ; initial maintenance dose is 4 mg PE / kg to 6 mg PE / kg / day in divided doses ( 2 . 4 ) • Pediatric loading dose is 10 mg PE / kg to 15 mg PE / kg given intravenously ; initial maintenance dose is 2 mg PE / kg to 4 mg PE / kg every 12 hours .
Because of the betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium ingredient in SESQUIENT , administration rate in pediatric patients should not exceed 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min .
The rate of administration of intravenous SESQUIENT in pediatric patients differs from that of other intravenous fosphenytoin products ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions to Avoid Dosing Errors Use caution when administering SESQUIENT because of the risk of dosing errors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Phenytoin Sodium Equivalents ( PE ) The dose , concentration , and infusion rate of SESQUIENT should always be expressed as phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) .
There is no need to perform molecular weight - based adjustments when converting between fosphenytoin and phenytoin sodium doses .
SESQUIENT should always be prescribed and dispensed in phenytoin sodium equivalent units ( PE ) .
The amount and concentration of fosphenytoin is always expressed in terms of mg of phenytoin sodium equivalents ( mg PE ) .
Concentration of 50 mg PE / mL Do not confuse the concentration of SESQUIENT with the total amount of drug in the vial .
Errors , including fatal overdoses , have occurred when the concentration of the vial ( 50 mg PE / mL ) was misinterpreted to mean that the total content of the vial was 50 mg PE .
These errors have resulted in two - or tenfold overdoses of SESQUIENT since each of the vials actually contains a total of 100 mg PE ( 2 mL ) or 500 mg PE ( 10 mL ) .
Ensure the appropriate volume of SESQUIENT is withdrawn from the vial when preparing the dose for administration .
Attention to these details may prevent some SESQUIENT medication errors from occurring .
2 . 2 Preparation Prior to intravenous infusion , dilute SESQUIENT in 5 % dextrose or 0 . 9 % saline solution for injection to a concentration ranging from 1 . 5 mg PE / mL to 25 mg PE / mL .
The maximum concentration of SESQUIENT in any solution should be 25 mg PE / mL .
When SESQUIENT is given as an intravenous infusion , SESQUIENT needs to be diluted and should only be administered at a rate not exceeding 150 mg PE / min in adults or 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min in pediatric patients 2 years to less than 17 years of age .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Drug product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used .
The diluted SESQUIENT solution is stable for 4 hours at room temperature .
For single - dose only .
After opening , any unused product should be discarded .
2 . 3 Status Epilepticus in Adults • Because of the risk of hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias , the rate of administration for SESQUIENT should be no greater than 150 mg PE / min in adults [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Continuous monitoring of the electrocardiogram , blood pressure , and respiratory function is essential , and the patient should be observed throughout the period where maximal serum phenytoin concentrations occur , approximately 10 to 20 minutes after the end of SESQUIENT infusions .
• Because the full antiepileptic effect of phenytoin , whether given as SESQUIENT or parenteral phenytoin , is not immediate , other measures , including concomitant administration of an intravenous benzodiazepine , will usually be necessary for the control of status epilepticus .
• The loading dose should be followed by maintenance doses of either SESQUIENT or phenytoin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
• If administration of SESQUIENT does not terminate seizures , the use of other anticonvulsants and other appropriate measures should be considered .
• See Table 1 for status epilepticus dosing in adult patients .
Table 1 .
Status Epilepticus Loading Dosages in Adult Patients Population Dosage Infusion Rate Adults ( 17 years of age and older ) 15 mg PE / kg to 20 mg PE / kg 100 mg PE / min to 150 mg PE / min , do not exceed a maximum rate of 150 mg PE / min 2 . 4 Non - emergent Loading and Maintenance Dosing in Adult and Pediatric Patients • Rate of Administration • Adult Patients ( 17 years of age and older ) : Because of the risk of hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias , the rate of administration for SESQUIENT should not exceed 150 mg PE / min in adults .
• Pediatric Patients ( 2 years to less than 17 years of age ) : Because of the betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium ingredient in SESQUIENT , the rate of administration for SESQUIENT should not exceed 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min in pediatric patients .
The rate of administration of intravenous SESQUIENT in pediatric patients differs from that of other intravenous fosphenytoin products .
• Monitoring : Continuous monitoring of the electrocardiogram , blood pressure , and respiratory function is essential , and the patient should be observed throughout the period where maximal serum phenytoin concentrations occur ( approximately 10 to 20 minutes after the end of SESQUIENT infusions ) .
• After the initial maintenance dose , subsequent maintenance doses should be individualized by monitoring serum phenytoin concentrations to achieve a target therapeutic concentration of phenytoin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 17 ) ] .
• See Table 2 and Table 3 for adult and pediatric non - emergent loading and maintenance dosing , respectively .
Table 2 .
Non - emergent Loading Dosages Population Dosage Infusion Rate Adult 10 mg PE / kg to 20 mg PE / kg Not to exceed a maximum rate of 150 mg PE / min Pediatric ( 2 years to less than 17 years of age ) 10 mg PE / kg to 15 mg PE / kg Not to exceed a maximum rate of 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min Table 3 .
Maintenance Dosages Population Dosage Infusion Rate Adult Initial Maintenance Dosage : 4 mg PE / kg / day to 6 mg PE / kg / day in divided doses Not to exceed a maximum rate of 150 mg PE / min Pediatric ( 2 years to less than 17 years of age ) Initial Maintenance Dosage : 2 mg PE / kg to 4 mg PE / kg ( dose given 12 hours after the loading dose ) Not to exceed a maximum rate of 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min Maintenance Dosage after Initial Maintenance Dosage : 4 mg PE / kg / day to 8 mg PE / kg / day in divided doses ( continued every 12 hours after initial maintenance dose ) Not to exceed a maximum rate of 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min 2 . 5 Laboratory Tests and Monitoring Levels Laboratory Tests SESQUIENT ( or phenytoin ) doses are usually selected to attain therapeutic serum total phenytoin concentrations of 10 to 20 mcg / mL ( unbound phenytoin concentrations of 1 to 2 mcg / mL ) .
Following SESQUIENT administration , it is recommended that phenytoin concentrations not be monitored until conversion to phenytoin is essentially complete .
This occurs within approximately 2 hours after the end of intravenous infusion .
Prior to complete conversion , commonly used immunoanalytical techniques , such as TDx ® / TDxFLx ™ ( fluorescence polarization ) and Emit ® 2000 ( enzyme multiplied ) , may significantly overestimate serum phenytoin concentrations because of cross - reactivity with fosphenytoin .
The error is dependent on serum phenytoin and fosphenytoin concentration ( influenced by SESQUIENT dose , route and rate of administration , and time of sampling relative to dosing ) , and analytical method .
Chromatographic assay methods accurately quantitate phenytoin concentrations in biological fluids in the presence of fosphenytoin .
Prior to complete conversion , blood samples for phenytoin monitoring should be collected in tubes containing EDTA as an anticoagulant to minimize ex vivo conversion of fosphenytoin to phenytoin .
However , even with specific assay methods , phenytoin concentrations measured before conversion of fosphenytoin is complete will not reflect phenytoin concentrations ultimately achieved .
Monitoring Levels Trough levels provide information about clinically effective serum level range and are obtained just prior to the patient ’ s next scheduled dose .
Peak levels indicate an individual ’ s threshold for emergence of dose - related side effects and are obtained at the time of expected peak concentration .
Therapeutic effect without clinical signs of toxicity occurs more often with serum total phenytoin concentrations between 10 and 20 mcg / mL ( unbound phenytoin concentrations of 1 to 2 mcg / mL ) , although some mild cases of tonic - clonic ( grand mal ) epilepsy may be controlled with lower serum levels of phenytoin .
In patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , the monitoring of unbound phenytoin concentrations may be more relevant [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 6 Parenteral Substitution for Oral Phenytoin Therapy Because of the risks of cardiac and local toxicity associated with intravenous SESQUIENT , oral phenytoin should be used whenever possible .
When treatment with oral phenytoin is not possible , SESQUIENT can be substituted for oral phenytoin at the same total daily phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) dose .
Dilantin capsules are approximately 90 % bioavailable by the oral route .
Phenytoin , derived from administration of SESQUIENT , is 100 % bioavailable by the intravenous route .
For this reason , serum phenytoin concentrations may increase modestly when SESQUIENT is substituted for oral phenytoin sodium therapy .
The rate of administration for SESQUIENT should be no greater than 150 mg PE / min in adults and 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min in pediatric patients .
2 . 7 Dosing in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment or Hypoalbuminemia Because the fraction of unbound phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) is increased in patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction in those patients .
After intravenous SESQUIENT administration to patients with renal and / or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , fosphenytoin clearance to phenytoin may be increased without a similar increase in phenytoin clearance .
This has the potential to increase the frequency and severity of adverse events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
Closely monitor serum creatinine levels and estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) in patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 - 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) receiving intravenous SESQUIENT .
If serum creatinine level increases occur , consider changing to oral phenytoin [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 8 Dosing in Geriatrics The clearance of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) is decreased slightly in elderly patients and lower or less frequent dosing may be required [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 9 Dosing during Pregnancy Decreased serum concentrations of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) may occur during pregnancy because of altered phenytoin pharmacokinetics [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Periodic measurement of serum phenytoin concentrations should be performed during pregnancy , and the SESQUIENT dosage should be adjusted as necessary .
Postpartum restoration of the original dosage will probably be indicated [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Because of potential changes in protein binding during pregnancy , the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : • 500 mg PE per 10 mL ( 50 mg PE / mL ) clear , colorless , sterile solution in single - dose vials • 100 mg PE per 2 mL ( 50 mg PE / mL ) clear , colorless , sterile solution in single - dose vials Injection : 50 mg phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) / mL available as : • 500 mg PE per 10 mL ( 50 mg PE / mL ) in single - dose vials ( 3 ) • 100 mg PE per 2 mL ( 50 mg PE / mL ) in single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SESQUIENT is contraindicated in patients with : • A history of hypersensitivity to fosphenytoin , phenytoin , other hydantoins , or any of the inactive ingredients in SESQUIENT [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Sinus bradycardia , sino - atrial block , second and third degree A - V block , or Adams - Stokes syndrome because of the effect of parenteral phenytoin or SESQUIENT on ventricular automaticity .
• A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to SESQUIENT , fosphenytoin , or phenytoin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Coadministration with delavirdine because of the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to delavirdine or to the class of non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
• Hypersensitivity to fosphenytoin , phenytoin , other hydantoins , or any of the inactive ingredients in SESQUIENT ( 4 ) • Sinus bradycardia , sino - atrial block , second and third - degree A - V block , and Adams - Stokes syndrome ( 4 ) • A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to SESQUIENT , fosphenytoin , or phenytoin ( 4 , 5 . 7 ) • Coadministration with delavirdine ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Dosing Errors : Do not confuse the amount of drug to be given in PE with the concentration of the drug in the vial .
Ensure the appropriate volume is withdrawn from the vial when preparing for administration .
( 5 . 1 ) • Withdrawal Precipitated Seizure : May precipitate status epilepticus .
Dose reductions or discontinuation should be done gradually .
( 5 . 3 ) • Serious Dermatologic Reactions : Discontinue at the first sign of a rash , unless clearly not drug - related .
If signs or symptoms suggest SJS / TEN , SESQUIENT should not be resumed ; consider alternative therapy .
( 5 . 4 ) • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multiorgan hypersensitivity : If signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity are present , evaluate the patient immediately .
Discontinue if an alternative etiology cannot be established .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hematopoietic Complications : If occurs , follow - up observation is indicated and an alternative antiepileptic treatment should be used .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Dosing Errors Phenytoin Sodium Equivalents ( PE ) Do not confuse the amount of drug to be given in PE with the concentration of the drug in the vial .
Doses of SESQUIENT are always expressed in terms of milligrams of phenytoin sodium equivalents ( mg PE ) .
1 mg PE is equivalent to 1 mg phenytoin sodium .
Do not , therefore , make any adjustment in the recommended doses when substituting SESQUIENT for phenytoin sodium or vice versa .
For example , if a patient is receiving 1000 mg PE of SESQUIENT , that is equivalent to 1000 mg of phenytoin sodium .
Concentration of 50 mg PE / mL Medication errors associated with fosphenytoin have resulted in patients receiving the wrong dose of fosphenytoin .
SESQUIENT is marketed in 2 mL vials containing a total of 100 mg PE and 10 mL vials containing a total of 500 mg PE .
The concentration of each vial is 50 mg PE / mL .
Errors have occurred when the concentration of the vial ( 50 mg PE / mL ) was misinterpreted to mean that the total content of the vial was 50 mg PE .
These errors have resulted in two - or ten - fold overdoses of fosphenytoin since each vial actually contains a total of 100 mg PE or 500 mg PE .
In some cases , ten - fold overdoses were associated with fatal outcomes .
To help minimize confusion , the prescribed dose of SESQUIENT should always be expressed in milligrams of phenytoin equivalents ( mg PE ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Additionally , when ordering and storing SESQUIENT , consider displaying the total drug content ( i . e . , 100 mg PE / 2 mL or 500 mg PE / 10 mL ) instead of concentration in computer systems , pre - printed orders , and automated dispensing cabinet databases to help ensure that total drug content can be clearly identified .
Care should be taken to ensure the appropriate volume of SESQUIENT is withdrawn from the vial when preparing the drug for administration .
Attention to these details may prevent some SESQUIENT medication errors from occurring .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Risk Associated with Rapid Infusion Rapid intravenous ( IV ) administration of SESQUIENT increases the risk of adverse cardiovascular reactions , including severe hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias .
Cardiac arrhythmias have included bradycardia , heart block , QT interval prolongation , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation which have resulted in asystole , cardiac arrest , and death .
Severe complications are most commonly encountered in critically ill patients , elderly patients , and patients with hypotension and severe myocardial insufficiency .
However , cardiac events have also been reported in adults and children without underlying cardiac disease or comorbidities and at recommended doses and infusion rates .
The rate of IV SESQUIENT administration should not exceed 150 mg phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) per minute in adults .
Rates above 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min in pediatric patients have not been studied [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Although the risk of cardiovascular toxicity increases with infusion rates above the recommended infusion rate , these events have also been reported at or below the recommended infusion rate .
As non - emergency therapy , IV SESQUIENT should be administered more slowly .
Because of the risks of cardiac and local toxicity associated with IV SESQUIENT , oral phenytoin should be used whenever possible .
Because adverse cardiovascular reactions have occurred during and after infusions , careful cardiac and respiratory monitoring is needed during and after the administration of IV SESQUIENT .
Reduction in rate of administration or discontinuation of dosing may be needed .
5 . 3 Withdrawal Precipitated Seizure , Status Epilepticus Antiepileptic drugs should not be abruptly discontinued because of the possibility of increased seizure frequency , including status epilepticus .
When , in the judgment of the clinician , the need for dosage reduction , discontinuation , or substitution of alternative antiepileptic medication arises , this should be done gradually .
However , in the event of an allergic or hypersensitivity reaction , rapid substitution of alternative therapy may be necessary .
In this case , alternative therapy should be an antiepileptic drug not belonging to the hydantoin chemical class .
5 . 4 Serious Dermatologic Reactions SESQUIENT can cause severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCARs ) , which may be fatal .
Reported reactions in phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) - treated patients have included toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
The onset of symptoms is usually within 28 days , but can occur later .
SESQUIENT should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash , unless the rash is clearly not drug - related .
If signs or symptoms suggest a severe cutaneous adverse reaction , use of this drug should not be resumed and alternative therapy should be considered .
If a rash occurs , the patient should be evaluated for signs and symptoms of SCARs .
Studies in patients of Chinese ancestry have found a strong association between the risk of developing SJS / TEN and the presence of HLA - B * 1502 , an inherited allelic variant of the HLA B gene , in patients using carbamazepine .
Limited evidence suggests that HLA - B * 1502 may be a risk factor for the development of SJS / TEN in patients of Asian ancestry taking other antiepileptic drugs associated with SJS / TEN , including phenytoin .
In addition , retrospective , case - control , genome - wide association studies in patients of southeast Asian ancestry have also identified an increased risk of SCAR in carriers of the decreased function CYP2C9 * 3 variant , which has also been associated with decreased clearance of phenytoin .
Consider avoiding SESQUIENT as an alternative to carbamazepine in patients who are positive for HLA - B * 1502 or in CYP2C9 * 3 carriers .
Should SESQUIENT be utilized for CYP2C9 * 3 carriers , consider starting at the lower end of the dosage range [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
The use of HLA - B * 1502 or CYP2C9 genotyping has important limitations and must never substitute for appropriate clinical vigilance and patient management .
The role of other possible factors in the development of , and morbidity from , SJS / TEN , such as antiepileptic drug ( AED ) dose , compliance , concomitant medications , comorbidities , and the level of dermatologic monitoring have not been studied .
5 . 5 Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) , also known as Multiorgan hypersensitivity , has been reported in patients taking antiepileptic drugs , including phenytoin and fosphenytoin .
Some of these events have been fatal or life - threatening .
DRESS typically , although not exclusively , presents with fever , rash , lymphadenopathy , and / or facial swelling , in association with other organ system involvement , such as hepatitis , nephritis , hematological abnormalities , myocarditis , or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection .
Eosinophilia is often present .
Because this disorder is variable in its expression , other organ systems not noted here may be involved .
It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity , such as fever or lymphadenopathy , may be present even though rash is not evident .
If such signs or symptoms are present , the patient should be evaluated immediately .
SESQUIENT should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity SESQUIENT and other hydantoins are contraindicated in patients who have experienced phenytoin hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Additionally , consider alternatives to structurally similar drugs such as carboxamides ( e . g . , carbamazepine ) , barbiturates , succinimides , and oxazolidinediones ( e . g . , trimethadione ) in these same patients .
Similarly , if there is a history of hypersensitivity reactions to these structurally similar drugs in the patient or immediate family members , consider alternatives to SESQUIENT .
5 . 7 Angioedema Angioedema has been reported in patients treated with phenytoin and fosphenytoin in the postmarketing setting .
SESQUIENT should be discontinued immediately if symptoms of angioedema , such as facial , perioral , or upper airway swelling occur .
SESQUIENT should be discontinued permanently if a clear alternative etiology for the reaction cannot be established .
5 . 8 Hepatic Injury Cases of acute hepatotoxicity , including infrequent cases of acute hepatic failure , have been reported with phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) .
These events may be part of the spectrum of DRESS or may occur in isolation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Other common manifestations include jaundice , hepatomegaly , elevated serum transaminase levels , leukocytosis , and eosinophilia .
The clinical course of acute phenytoin hepatotoxicity ranges from prompt recovery to fatal outcomes .
In these patients with acute hepatotoxicity , SESQUIENT should be immediately discontinued and not re - administered .
5 . 9 Hematopoietic Complications Hematopoietic complications , some fatal , have occasionally been reported in association with administration of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) .
These have included thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , granulocytopenia , agranulocytosis , and pancytopenia with or without bone marrow suppression .
There have been a number of reports that have suggested a relationship between phenytoin and the development of lymphadenopathy ( local or generalized ) , including benign lymph node hyperplasia , pseudolymphoma , lymphoma , and Hodgkin ’ s disease .
Although a cause and effect relationship has not been established , the occurrence of lymphadenopathy indicates the need to differentiate such a condition from other types of lymph node pathology .
Lymph node involvement may occur with or without symptoms and signs resembling DRESS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
In all cases of lymphadenopathy , follow - up observation for an extended period is indicated and every effort should be made to achieve seizure control using alternative antiepileptic drugs .
5 . 10 Sensory Disturbances Severe burning , itching , and / or paresthesia were reported by 7 of 16 normal volunteers administered intravenous ( IV ) fosphenytoin at a dose of 1200 mg PE at the maximum rate of administration ( 150 mg PE / min ) .
The severe sensory disturbance lasted from 3 to 50 minutes in 6 of these subjects and for 14 hours in the seventh subject .
In some cases , milder sensory disturbances persisted for as long as 24 hours .
The location of the discomfort varied among subjects with the groin mentioned most frequently as an area of discomfort .
In a separate cohort of 16 normal volunteers ( taken from 2 other studies ) who were administered IV fosphenytoin at a dose of 1200 mg PE at the maximum rate of administration ( 150 mg PE / min ) , none experienced severe disturbances , but most experienced mild to moderate itching or tingling .
Patients administered fosphenytoin at doses of 20 mg PE / kg at 150 mg PE / min are expected to experience discomfort of some degree .
The occurrence and intensity of the discomfort can be lessened by slowing or temporarily stopping the infusion .
The effect of continuing infusion unaltered in the presence of these sensations is unknown .
No permanent sequelae have been reported thus far .
The pharmacologic basis for these positive sensory phenomena is unknown , but other phosphate ester drugs , which deliver smaller phosphate loads , have been associated with burning , itching , and / or tingling predominantly in the groin area .
5 . 11 Local Toxicity ( Including Purple Glove Syndrome ) Edema , discoloration , and pain distal to the site of injection ( described as “ purple glove syndrome ” ) have also been reported following peripheral intravenous injection of fosphenytoin .
This may or may not be associated with extravasation .
The syndrome may not develop for several days after injection .
5 . 12 Phosphate Load The phosphate load provided by SESQUIENT ( 0 . 0037 mmol phosphate / mg PE SESQUIENT ) should be considered when treating patients who require phosphate restriction , such as those with severe renal impairment .
5 . 13 Renal or Hepatic Disease or Hypoalbuminemia Because the fraction of unbound phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) is increased in patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction in those patients .
After intravenous administration to patients with renal and / or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , fosphenytoin clearance to phenytoin may be increased without a similar increase in phenytoin clearance .
This has the potential to increase the frequency and severity of adverse events .
5 . 14 Exacerbation of Porphyria In view of isolated reports associating phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) with exacerbation of porphyria , caution should be exercised in using SESQUIENT in patients suffering from this disease .
5 . 15 Teratogenicity and Other Harm to the Newborn SESQUIENT may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Prenatal exposure to phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) may increase the risks for congenital malformations and other adverse development outcomes [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Increased frequencies of major malformations ( such as orofacial clefts and cardiac defects ) , and abnormalities characteristic of fetal hydantoin syndrome , including dysmorphic skull and facial features , nail and digit hypoplasia , growth abnormalities ( including microcephaly ) , and cognitive deficits , have been reported among children born to epileptic women who took phenytoin alone or in combination with other antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
There have been several reported cases of malignancies , including neuroblastoma .
The overall incidence of malformations for children of epileptic women treated with antiepileptic drugs , including phenytoin , during pregnancy is about 10 % , or two - to three - fold that in the general population .
A potentially life - threatening bleeding disorder related to decreased levels of vitamin K - dependent clotting factors may occur in newborns exposed to phenytoin in utero .
This drug - induced condition can be prevented with vitamin K administration to the mother before delivery and to the neonate after birth .
5 . 16 Hyperglycemia Hyperglycemia , resulting from the inhibitory effect of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) on insulin release , has been reported .
Phenytoin may also raise the serum glucose concentrations in diabetic patients .
5 . 17 Serum Phenytoin Levels above Therapeutic Range Serum levels of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) sustained above the therapeutic range may produce confusional states referred to as “ delirium , ” “ psychosis , ” or “ encephalopathy , ” or rarely , irreversible cerebellar dysfunction and / or cerebellar atrophy .
Accordingly , at the first sign of acute toxicity , serum levels should be immediately checked .
SESQUIENT dose reduction is indicated if serum levels are excessive ; if symptoms persist , administration of SESQUIENT should be discontinued .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular Risk Associated with Rapid Infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Withdrawal Precipitated Seizure , Status Epilepticus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Serious Dermatologic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multiorgan Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hepatic Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hematopoietic Complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Sensory Disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Local Toxicity ( Including Purple Glove Syndrome ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Exacerbation of Porphyria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] • Teratogenicity and Other Harm to the Newborn [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] • Hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 16 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 10 % ) are : • Adults : pruritus , nystagmus , dizziness , somnolence , and ataxia • Pediatrics : vomiting , nystagmus , and ataxia ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sedor Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
at 1 - 610 - 455 - 2180 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The more important adverse clinical reactions caused by the intravenous ( IV ) use of SESQUIENT or phenytoin are cardiovascular collapse and / or central nervous system depression .
Hypotension can occur when either drug is administered rapidly by the IV route .
The rate of administration is very important ; for SESQUENT , the rate for adult patients should not exceed 150 mg PE / min .
The rate of administration of SESQUIENT in pediatric patients is limited to 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min because the safety of IV administration of the betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium ingredient in SESQUIENT at a faster rate has not been established [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) .
and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
The data presented below were obtained from a formulation of fosphenytoin injection that does not contain betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The adverse reactions most commonly observed with the use of fosphenytoin injection in clinical trials were nystagmus , dizziness , pruritus , somnolence , and ataxia .
With one exception , these reactions are commonly associated with the administration of IV phenytoin .
Pruritus , however , was seen much more often following fosphenytoin injection administration compared to phenytoin injection .
These reactions were dose and rate related ; most alert patients ( 41 of 64 ; 64 % ) administered doses of ≥ 15 mg PE / kg at 150 mg PE / min experienced discomfort of some degree .
These sensations , generally described as itching , burning , or tingling , were usually not at the infusion site .
The location of the discomfort varied with the groin mentioned most frequently as a site of involvement .
The paresthesia and pruritus were transient events that occurred within several minutes of the start of infusion and generally resolved within 10 minutes after completion of fosphenytoin infusion .
Some patients experienced symptoms for hours .
These reactions did not increase in severity with repeated administration .
Concurrent adverse events or clinical laboratory change suggesting an allergic process were not seen [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Approximately 2 % of the 859 patients who received fosphenytoin injection in premarketing clinical trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse event .
The adverse events most commonly associated with withdrawal were pruritus ( 0 . 5 % ) , hypotension ( 0 . 3 % ) , and bradycardia ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Dose and Rate Dependency of Adverse Reactions Following IV Fosphenytoin Injection The incidence of adverse reactions tended to increase as both dose and infusion rate increased .
In particular , at doses of ≥ 15 mg PE / kg and rates ≥ 150 mg PE / min , transient pruritus , tinnitus , nystagmus , somnolence , and ataxia occurred 2 to 3 times more often than at lower doses or rates .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials - IV Administration to Adult Patients with Epilepsy or Neurosurgical Patients Table 4 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of adult patients treated with IV fosphenytoin at the maximum dose and rate in a randomized , double - blind , controlled clinical trial where the rates for phenytoin and fosphenytoin administration would have resulted in equivalent systemic exposure to phenytoin .
TABLE 4 .
Adverse Reaction Incidence Following IV Administration at the Maximum Dose and Rate to Adult Patients with Epilepsy or Neurosurgical Patients ( Events in at Least 2 % of TRADE NAME - Treated Patients ) 1 The study was not designed to assess comparative safety .
BODY SYSTEM Adverse Event IV Fosphenytoin N = 90 IV Phenytoin1 N = 22 BODY AS A WHOLE Pelvic Pain 4 0 Asthenia 2 0 Back Pain 2 0 Headache 2 5 CARDIOVASCULAR Hypotension 8 9 Vasodilatation 6 5 Tachycardia 2 0 DIGESTIVE Nausea 9 14 Tongue Disorder 4 0 Dry Mouth 4 5 Vomiting 2 9 NERVOUS Nystagmus 44 59 Dizziness 31 27 Somnolence 20 27 Ataxia 11 18 Stupor 8 5 Incoordination 4 5 Paresthesia 4 0 Extrapyramidal Syndrome 4 0 Tremor 3 9 Agitation 3 0 Hypesthesia 2 9 Dysarthria 2 0 Vertigo 2 0 Brain Edema 2 5 SKIN AND APPENDAGES Pruritus 49 5 SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus 9 9 Diplopia 3 0 Taste Perversion 3 0 Amblyopia 2 9 Deafness 2 0 Incidence in Clinical Trials - IV Administration to Pediatric Patients The overall incidence of adverse reactions and the types of adverse reactions seen were similar among children and adults treated with fosphenytoin injection .
In an open - label , safety , tolerability , and pharmacokinetic study of fosphenytoin in pediatric patients ( including age 2 through age 16 ) , the following adverse reactions occurred at a frequency of at least 5 % in 96 patients treated with IV fosphenytoin : vomiting ( 21 % ) , nystagmus ( 18 % ) , ataxia ( 10 % ) , fever ( 8 % ) , nervousness ( 7 % ) , pruritus ( 6 % ) , somnolence ( 6 % ) , hypotension ( 5 % ) , and rash ( 5 % ) .
Adverse Events During Clinical Trials in Adult and Pediatric Patients Fosphenytoin injection has been administered to approximately 900 individuals during clinical trials .
Adverse events seen at least twice are listed in the following , except those already included in previous tables and listings .
Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in greater than 1 / 100 individuals ; infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 individuals .
Body as a Whole : Frequent : fever , injection - site reaction , infection , chills , face edema , injection - site pain ; Infrequent : sepsis , injection - site inflammation , injection - site edema , injection - site hemorrhage , flu syndrome , malaise , generalized edema , shock , photosensitivity reaction , cachexia , cryptococcosis .
Cardiovascular : Frequent : hypertension ; Infrequent : cardiac arrest , migraine , syncope , cerebral hemorrhage , palpitation , sinus bradycardia , atrial flutter , bundle branch block , cardiomegaly , cerebral infarct , postural hypotension , pulmonary embolus , QT interval prolongation , thrombophlebitis , ventricular extrasystoles , congestive heart failure .
Digestive : Frequent : constipation ; Infrequent : dyspepsia , diarrhea , anorexia , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , increased salivation , liver function tests abnormal , tenesmus , tongue edema , dysphagia , flatulence , gastritis , ileus .
Endocrine : Infrequent : diabetes insipidus .
Hematologic and Lymphatic : Infrequent : thrombocytopenia , anemia , leukocytosis , cyanosis , hypochromic anemia , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , petechia .
Laboratory Test Abnormality : Phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) may cause increased serum levels of glucose and alkaline phosphatase .
Metabolic and Nutritional : Frequent : hypokalemia ; Infrequent : hyperglycemia , hypophosphatemia , alkalosis , acidosis , dehydration , hyperkalemia , ketosis .
Musculoskeletal : Frequent : myasthenia ; Infrequent : myopathy , leg cramps , arthralgia , myalgia .
Nervous : Frequent : reflexes increased , speech disorder , dysarthria , intracranial hypertension , thinking abnormal , nervousness ; Infrequent : confusion , twitching , Babinski sign positive , circumoral paresthesia , hemiplegia , hypotonia , convulsion , extrapyramidal syndrome , insomnia , meningitis , depersonalization , CNS depression , depression , hypokinesia , hyperkinesia , paralysis , psychosis , aphasia , emotional lability , coma , hyperesthesia , myoclonus , personality disorder , acute brain syndrome , encephalitis , subdural hematoma , encephalopathy , hostility , akathisia , amnesia , neurosis .
Respiratory : Frequent : pneumonia ; Infrequent : pharyngitis , sinusitis , hyperventilation , rhinitis , apnea , aspiration pneumonia , asthma , dyspnea , atelectasis , cough increased , sputum increased , epistaxis , hypoxia , pneumothorax , hemoptysis , bronchitis .
Skin and Appendages : Frequent : rash ; Infrequent : maculopapular rash , urticaria , sweating , skin discoloration , contact dermatitis , pustular rash , skin nodule .
Special Senses : Infrequent : visual field defect , eye pain , conjunctivitis , photophobia , hyperacusis , mydriasis , parosmia , ear pain , taste loss .
Urogenital : Infrequent : urinary retention , oliguria , dysuria , vaginitis , albuminuria , genital edema , kidney failure , polyuria , urethral pain , urinary incontinence , vaginal moniliasis .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of fosphenytoin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : Anaphylaxis , angioedema angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Laboratory Test Abnormality : Phenytoin or SESQUIENT may decrease serum concentrations of T4 .
It may also produce lower than normal values for dexamethasone or metyrapone tests .
Phenytoin may also cause increased serum levels of gamma glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ) .
Nervous System Disorders : Dyskinesia 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fosphenytoin is extensively bound to human plasma proteins .
Drugs highly bound to albumin could increase the unbound fraction of fosphenytoin .
Although , it is unknown whether this could result in clinically significant effects , caution is advised when administering SESQUIENT with other drugs that significantly bind to serum albumin .
The most significant drug interactions following administration of SESQUIENT are expected to occur with drugs that interact with phenytoin .
Phenytoin is extensively bound to serum plasma proteins and is prone to competitive displacement .
Phenytoin is primarily metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C19 and is particularly susceptible to inhibitory drug interactions because it is subject to saturable metabolism .
Inhibition of metabolism may produce significant increases in circulating phenytoin concentrations and enhance the risk of drug toxicity .
Monitoring of phenytoin serum levels is recommended when a drug interaction is suspected .
Phenytoin or SESQUIENT is a potent inducer of hepatic drug - metabolizing enzymes .
• Multiple drug interactions because of extensive plasma protein binding , saturable metabolism , and potent induction of hepatic enzymes ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that Affect Phenytoin or SESQUIENT Table 5 includes commonly occurring drug interactions that affect phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) concentrations .
However , this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive .
Individual prescribing information from relevant drugs should be consulted .
The addition or withdrawal of these agents in patients on phenytoin therapy may require an adjustment of the phenytoin dose to achieve optimal clinical outcome .
a The induction potency of St . John ’ s wort may vary widely based on preparation .
Table 5 .
Drugs That Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Interacting Agent Examples Drugs that may increase phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Ethosuximide , felbamate , oxcarbazepine , methsuximide , topiramate Azoles Fluconazole , ketoconazole , itraconazole , miconazole , voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Capecitabine , fluorouracil Antidepressants Fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , sertraline Gastric acid reducing agents H2 antagonists ( cimetidine ) , omeprazole Sulfonamides Sulfamethizole , sulfaphenazole , sulfadiazine , sulfamethoxazoletrimethoprim Other Acute alcohol intake , amiodarone , chloramphenicol , chlordiazepoxide , disulfiram , estrogen , fluvastatin , isoniazid , methylphenidate , phenothiazines , salicylates , ticlopidine , tolbutamide , trazodone , warfarin Drugs that may decrease phenytoin serum levels Antineoplastic agents usually in combination Bleomycin , carboplatin , cisplatin , doxorubicin , methotrexate Antiviral agents Fosamprenavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir Antiepileptic drugs Carbamazepine , vigabatrin Other Chronic alcohol abuse , diazepam , diazoxide , folic acid , reserpine , rifampin , St . John ’ s wort , a theophylline Drugs that may either increase or decrease phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Phenobarbital , valproate sodium , valproic acid 7 . 2 Drugs Affected by Phenytoin or SESQUIENT Table 6 includes commonly occurring drug interactions affected by phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) .
However , this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive .
Individual drug package inserts should be consulted .
The addition or withdrawal of phenytoin during concomitant therapy with these agents may require adjustment of the dose of these agents to achieve optimal clinical outcome .
a The effect of phenytoin on phenobarbital , valproic acid and sodium valproate serum levels is unpredictable .
Table 6 : Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Interacting Agent Examples Drugs whose efficacy is impaired by phenytoin Azoles Fluconazole , ketoconazole , itraconazole , posaconazole , voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Irinotecan , paclitaxel , teniposide Delavirdine Phenytoin can substantially reduce the concentrations of delavirdine .
This can lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Neuromuscular blocking agents Cisatracurium , pancuronium , rocuronium and vecuronium : resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of the nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents has occurred in patients chronically administered phenytoin .
Whether or not phenytoin has the same effect on other non - depolarizing agents is unknown .
• Prevention or Management : Patients should be monitored closely for more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected , and infusion rate requirements may be higher .
Warfarin Increased and decreased PT / INR responses have been reported when phenytoin is coadministered with warfarin .
Other Corticosteroids , doxycycline , estrogens , furosemide , oral contraceptives , paroxetine , quinidine , rifampin , sertraline , theophylline , and vitamin D Drugs whose level is decreased by phenytoin Antiepileptic drugsa Carbamazepine , felbamate , lamotrigine , topiramate , oxcarbazepine Antilipidemic agents Atorvastatin , fluvastatin , simvastatin Antiviral agents Efavirenz , lopinavir / ritonavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir , saquinavir Fosamprenavir : phenytoin when given with fosamprenavir alone may decrease the concentration of amprenavir , the active metabolite .
Phenytoin when given with the combination of fosamprenavir and ritonavir may increase the concentration of amprenavir Calcium channel blockers Nifedipine , nimodipine , nisoldipine , verapamil Other Albendazole ( decreases active metabolite ) , chlorpropamide , clozapine , cyclosporine , digoxin , folic acid , methadone , mexiletine , praziquantel , quetiapine 7 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Care should be taken when using immunoanalytical methods to measure serum phenytoin concentrations following SESQUIENT administration .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) prenatal exposure may increase risks for congenital malformations and other adverse developmental outcomes ( 5 . 15 , 8 . 1 ) • Renal and / or Hepatic Impairment or Hypoalbuminemia : Monitor unbound phenytoin concentrations in these patients .
Because of accumulation of sulfobutylether beta - cyclodextrin sodium salt , closely monitor serum creatinine levels in patients with severe renal impairment .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , such as SESQUIENT , during pregnancy .
Physicians are advised to recommend that pregnant patients taking SESQUIENT enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) Pregnancy Registry .
This can be done by calling the toll free number 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 , and must be done by patients themselves .
Information on the registry can also be found at the website http : / / www . aedpregnancyregistry . org / .
Risk Summary In humans , prenatal exposure to phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) may increase the risks for congenital malformations and other adverse development outcomes .
An increased incidence of major malformations ( such as orofacial clefts and cardiac defects ) and abnormalities characteristic of fetal hydantoin syndrome ( dysmorphic skull and facial features , nail and digit hypoplasia , growth abnormalities [ including microcephaly ] , and cognitive deficits ) has been reported among children born to epileptic women who took phenytoin alone or in combination with other antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
There have been several reported cases of malignancies , including neuroblastoma , in children whose mothers received phenytoin during pregnancy .
Administration of phenytoin to pregnant animals resulted in an increased incidence of fetal malformations and other manifestations of developmental toxicity ( including embryofetal death , growth impairment , and behavioral abnormalities ) in multiple species at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
The overall incidence of malformations for children of epileptic women treated with antiepileptic drugs ( phenytoin and / or others ) during pregnancy is about 10 % , or two - to three - fold that in the general population .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal risk An increase in seizure frequency may occur during pregnancy because of altered phenytoin pharmacokinetics .
Periodic measurement of serum phenytoin concentrations may be valuable in the management of pregnant women as a guide to appropriate adjustment of dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 , 2 . 9 ) ] .
However , postpartum restoration of the original dosage will probably be indicated .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions A potentially life - threatening bleeding disorder related to decreased levels of vitamin K - dependent clotting factors may occur in newborns exposed to phenytoin in utero .
This drug - induced condition can be prevented with vitamin K administration to the mother before delivery and to the neonate after birth .
Data Animal data Administration of phenytoin to pregnant rats , rabbits , and mice during organogenesis resulted in embryofetal death , fetal malformations , and decreased fetal growth .
Malformations ( including craniofacial , cardiovascular , neural , limb , and digit abnormalities ) were observed in rats , rabbits , and mice at doses as low as 100 , 75 , and 12 . 5 mg / kg , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether fosphenytoin is secreted in human milk .
Following administration of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) , phenytoin is secreted in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for SESQUIENT and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from SESQUIENT or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of SESQUIENT in pediatric patients for the treatment of generalized tonic - clonic status epilepticus and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during neurosurgery have not been established .
The rate of administration of SESQUIENT in pediatric patients is limited to 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min because the safety of intravenous ( IV ) administration of the betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium ingredient in SESQUIENT at a faster rate has not been established .
This maximum rate of 0 . 4 mg PE / kg / min does not allow for adequate treatment of status epilepticus or seizures occurring during neurosurgery .
In addition , rapid IV administration of fosphenytoin increases the risk of adverse cardiovascular reactions ; however , these events have also been reported at or below the recommended infusion rate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of SESQUIENT for the short - term substitution of oral phenytoin have been established in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older .
Use of SESQUIENT in these patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled safety studies in adults comparing IV fosphenytoin to IV phenytoin ; pharmacokinetic data in healthy adults comparing SESQUIENT to IV fosphenytoin ; and safety data of betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older .
There are no data on the safety of betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium in pediatric patients below 2 years of age .
Safety of SESQUIENT for short - term substitution for oral phenytoin in patients below the 2 years of age has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No systematic studies in geriatric patients have been conducted .
Phenytoin clearance tends to decrease with increasing age [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lower or less frequent dosing may be required [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 8 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal and / or Hepatic Impairment , or Hypoalbuminemia The liver is the site of biotransformation [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with impaired liver function , elderly patients , or those who are gravely ill may show early toxicity .
Because the fraction of unbound phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) is increased in patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction in those patients .
After IV administration to patients with renal and / or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia , fosphenytoin clearance to phenytoin may be increased without a similar increase in phenytoin clearance .
This has the potential to increase the frequency and severity of adverse events .
Sulfobutylether beta - cyclodextrim sodium salt is known to accumulate in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment .
Closely monitor serum creatinine levels in patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 - 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) receiving intravenous SESQUIENT .
If serum creatinine level increases occur , consider changing to oral phenytoin .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Decreased CYP2C9 Function Patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C9 substrates ( e . g . , * 1 / * 3 , * 2 / * 2 , * 3 / * 3 ) may exhibit increased phenytoin serum concentrations compared to patients who are normal metabolizers ( e . g . , * 1 / * 1 ) .
Thus , patients who are known to be intermediate or poor metabolizers may ultimately require lower doses to maintain similar steady - state concentrations compared to normal metabolizers .
In patients who are known to be carriers of the decreased function CYP2C9 * 2 or * 3 alleles ( intermediate and poor metabolizers ) , consider starting at the low end of the dosage range and monitor serum concentrations to maintain total phenytoin concentrations of 10 to 20 mcg / mL .
If early signs of dose - related central nervous system ( CNS ) toxicity develop , serum concentrations should be checked immediately [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Nausea , vomiting , lethargy , tachycardia , bradycardia , asystole , cardiac arrest , hypotension , syncope , hypocalcemia , metabolic acidosis , and death have been reported in cases of overdosage with phenytoin and fosphenytoin .
Because SESQUIENT is a prodrug of phenytoin , the following information about phenytoin overdosage may be helpful .
Initial symptoms of acute phenytoin toxicity are nystagmus , ataxia , and dysarthria .
Other signs include tremor , hyperreflexia , lethargy , slurred speech , nausea , vomiting , coma , and hypotension .
Death is caused by respiratory and circulatory depression .
The lethal dose of phenytoin in adults is estimated to be 2 to 5 grams .
The lethal dose in pediatrics is not known .
There are marked variations among individuals with respect to serum phenytoin concentrations where toxicity occurs .
Lateral gaze nystagmus usually appears at 20 µg / mL , ataxia at 30 µg / mL , and dysarthria and lethargy appear when the serum concentration is over 40 µg / mL .
However , phenytoin concentrations as high as 50 µg / mL have been reported without evidence of toxicity .
As much as 25 times the therapeutic phenytoin dose has been taken , resulting in serum phenytoin concentrations over 100 µg / mL , with complete recovery .
Irreversible cerebellar dysfunction and atrophy have been reported after overdosage .
Formate and phosphate are metabolites of SESQUIENT and therefore may contribute to signs of toxicity following overdosage .
Signs of formate toxicity are similar to those of methanol toxicity and are associated with severe anion - gap metabolic acidosis .
Large amounts of phosphate , delivered rapidly , could potentially cause hypocalcemia with paresthesia , muscle spasms , and seizures .
Ionized free calcium levels can be measured and , if low , used to guide treatment .
Treatment : Treatment is nonspecific since there is no known antidote to SESQUIENT or phenytoin overdosage .
The adequacy of the respiratory and circulatory systems should be carefully observed , and appropriate supportive measures employed .
Hemodialysis can be considered since phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) is not completely bound to plasma proteins .
Total exchange transfusion has been used in the treatment of severe intoxication in children .
In acute overdosage the possibility of other CNS depressants , including alcohol , should be borne in mind .
11 DESCRIPTION SESQUIENT ( Fosphenytoin Sodium Injection ) is a prodrug intended for parenteral administration ; its active metabolite is phenytoin .
1 . 5 mg of fosphenytoin sodium is equivalent to 1 mg phenytoin sodium , and is referred to as 1 mg phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) .
The amount and concentration of fosphenytoin is always expressed in terms of mg PE .
The pharmacological class of the fosphenytoin sodium is hydantoin derivative , and the therapeutic class is anticonvulsant .
SESQUIENT is supplied as a clear , colorless , sterile solution in single - dose vials containing 100 mg PE / 2 mL or 500 mg PE / 10 mL , for intravenous administration .
Each mL contains 50 mg PE ( equivalent to 75 mg fosphenytoin sodium or 46 mg phenytoin ) and the following inactive ingredients : 100 mg of betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium and 2 . 42 mg of tromethamine in water for injection , adjusted to pH 7 . 6 to 8 . 2 with either hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide .
FDA approved impurity specification for phenytoin differs from USP .
FDA approved pH specification differs from USP .
The chemical name of fosphenytoin sodium is 5 , 5 - diphenyl - 3 - [ ( phosphonooxy ) methyl ] - 2 , 4 - imidazolidinedione disodium salt .
The molecular structure of fosphenytoin sodium is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of fosphenytoin sodium is 406 . 24 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fosphenytoin is a prodrug of phenytoin and accordingly , its anticonvulsant effects are attributable to phenytoin .
The precise mechanism by which phenytoin exerts its therapeutic effect has not been established but is thought to involve the voltage - dependent blockade of membrane sodium channels resulting in a reduction in sustained high - frequency neuronal discharges .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Fosphenytoin Absorption Intravenous : When SESQUIENT is administered by intravenous ( IV ) infusion , maximum plasma fosphenytoin concentrations are achieved at the end of the infusion .
Distribution Fosphenytoin is extensively bound ( 95 % to 99 % ) to human plasma proteins , primarily albumin .
Binding to plasma proteins is saturable with the result that the percent bound decreases as total fosphenytoin concentrations increase .
Fosphenytoin displaces phenytoin from protein binding sites .
The volume of distribution of fosphenytoin increases with SESQUIENT dose and rate , and ranges from 4 . 3 to 10 . 8 liters .
Elimination The conversion half - life of fosphenytoin to phenytoin is approximately 15 minutes .
Metabolism Following parenteral administration of SESQUIENT , fosphenytoin is converted to the anticonvulsant phenytoin .
The mechanism of fosphenytoin conversion has not been determined , but phosphatases probably play a major role .
Fosphenytoin is metabolized to phenytoin , phosphate , and formate .
For every mmol of fosphenytoin administered , one mmol of phenytoin is produced .
The hydrolysis of fosphenytoin to phenytoin yields two metabolites , phosphate and formaldehyde .
Formaldehyde is subsequently converted to formate , which is in turn metabolized via a folate dependent mechanism .
Although phosphate and formaldehyde ( formate ) have potentially important biological effects , these effects typically occur at concentrations considerably in excess of those obtained when SESQUIENT is administered under conditions of use recommended in this labeling .
Excretion Fosphenytoin is not excreted in urine .
Phenytoin ( after SESQUIENT administration ) The pharmacokinetics of fosphenytoin following IV administration of SESQUIENT , are complex , and when used in an emergency setting ( e . g . , status epilepticus ) , differences in rate of availability of phenytoin could be critical .
Studies have therefore empirically determined an infusion rate for SESQUIENT that gives a rate and extent of phenytoin systemic availability similar to that of a 50 mg / min phenytoin sodium infusion .
A dose of 15 to 20 mg PE / kg of SESQUIENT infused at 100 to 150 mg PE / min yields plasma free phenytoin concentrations over time that approximate those achieved when an equivalent dose of phenytoin sodium ( e . g . , parenteral DILANTIN ® ) is administered at 50 mg / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] FIGURE 1 .
Mean plasma unbound phenytoin concentrations following IV administration of 1200 mg PE fosphenytoin infused at 100 mg PE / min ( triangles ) or 150 mg PE / min ( squares ) and 1200 mg Dilantin infused at 50 mg / min ( diamonds ) to healthy subjects ( N = 12 ) .
Inset shows time course for the entire 96 - hour sampling period .
Following administration of single IV fosphenytoin doses of 400 to 1200 mg PE , mean maximum total phenytoin concentrations increase in proportion to dose , but do not change appreciably with changes in infusion rate .
In contrast , mean maximum unbound phenytoin concentrations increase with both dose and rate .
Absorption Fosphenytoin is completely converted to phenytoin following IV administration , with a half - life of approximately 15 minutes .
Fosphenytoin is also completely converted to phenytoin following IM administration and plasma total phenytoin concentrations peak in approximately 3 hours .
Distribution Phenytoin is highly bound to plasma proteins , primarily albumin , although to a lesser extent than fosphenytoin .
In the absence of fosphenytoin , approximately 12 % of total plasma phenytoin is unbound over the clinically relevant concentration range .
However , fosphenytoin displaces phenytoin from plasma protein binding sites .
This increases the fraction of phenytoin unbound ( up to 30 % unbound ) during the period required for conversion of fosphenytoin to phenytoin ( approximately 0 . 5 to 1 hour post infusion ) .
Elimination Mean total phenytoin half - life values ( 12 . 0 to 28 . 9 hr ) following fosphenytoin administration at these doses are similar to those after equal doses of parenteral Dilantin and tend to be greater at higher plasma phenytoin concentrations .
Metabolism Phenytoin derived from administration of fosphenytoin is extensively metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2C9 and to a lesser extend by CYP2C19 .
Phenytoin hepatic metabolism is saturable , and following administration of single IV fosphenytoin doses of 400 to 1200 mg PE , total and unbound phenytoin AUC values increase disproportionately with dose .
Excretion Phenytoin derived from administration of fosphenytoin is excreted in urine primarily as 5 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) - 5 phenylhydantoin and its glucuronide ; little unchanged phenytoin ( 1 % – 5 % of the fosphenytoin dose ) is recovered in urine .
Specific Populations Age : Geriatric Population The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of fosphenytoin was evaluated in patients 5 to 98 years of age .
Patient age had no significant impact on fosphenytoin pharmacokinetics .
Phenytoin clearance tends to decrease with increasing age ( 20 % less in patients over 70 years of age relative to that in patients 20 – 30 years of age ) .
Sex / Race Gender and race have no significant impact on fosphenytoin or phenytoin pharmacokinetics .
Renal or Hepatic Impairment Increased fraction of unbound phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) in patients with renal or hepatic disease , or in those with hypoalbuminemia has been reported .
Pregnancy It has been reported in the literature that the plasma clearance of phenytoin ( the active metabolite of SESQUIENT ) generally increased during pregnancy , reached a peak in the third trimester and returned to the level of pre - pregnancy after few weeks or months of delivery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 9 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Phenytoin derived from administration of fosphenytoin is extensively metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2C9 and to a lesser extend by CYP2C19 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
No drugs are known to interfere with the conversion of fosphenytoin to phenytoin .
Conversion could be affected by alterations in the level of phosphatase activity , but given the abundance and wide distribution of phosphatases in the body it is unlikely that drugs would affect this activity enough to affect conversion of fosphenytoin to phenytoin .
The pharmacokinetics and protein binding of fosphenytoin , phenytoin , and diazepam were not altered when diazepam and fosphenytoin were concurrently administered in single submaximal doses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2C9 activity is decreased in individuals with genetic variants such as the CYP2C9 * 2 and CYP2C9 * 3 alleles .
Carriers of variant alleles , resulting in intermediate ( e . g . , * 1 / * 3 , * 2 / * 2 ) or poor metabolism ( e . g . , * 2 / * 3 , * 3 / * 3 ) have decreased clearance of phenytoin .
Other decreased or nonfunctional CYP2C9 alleles may also result in decreased clearance of phenytoin ( e . g . , * 5 , * 6 , * 8 , * 11 ) .
The prevalence of the CYP2C9 poor metabolizer phenotype is approximately 2 - 3 % in the White population , 0 . 5 - 4 % in the Asian population , and < 1 % in the African American population .
The CYP2C9 intermediate phenotype prevalence is approximately 35 % in the White population , 24 % in the African American population , and 15 - 36 % in the Asian population [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The carcinogenic potential of fosphenytoin has not been assessed .
In carcinogenicity studies , phenytoin ( active metabolite of fosphenytoin ) was administered in the diet to mice ( 10 , 25 , or 45 mg / kg / day ) and rats ( 25 , 50 , or 100 mg / kg / day ) for 2 years .
The incidences of hepatocellular tumors were increased in male and female mice at the highest dose .
No increases in tumor incidence were observed in rats .
The highest doses tested in these studies were associated with peak plasma phenytoin levels below human therapeutic concentrations .
In carcinogenicity studies reported in the literature , phenytoin was administered in the diet for 2 years at doses up to 600 ppm ( approximately 90 mg / kg / day ) to mice and up to 2400 ppm ( approximately 120 mg / kg / day ) to rats .
The incidences of hepatocellular tumors were increased in female mice at all but the lowest dose tested .
No increases in tumor incidence were observed in rats .
Mutagenesis An increase in structural chromosome aberrations were observed in cultured V79 Chinese hamster lung cells exposed to fosphenytoin in the presence of metabolic activation .
No evidence of mutagenicity was observed in bacteria ( Ames test ) or Chinese hamster lung cells in vitro , and no evidence for clastogenic activity was observed in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Fosphenytoin was administered to male and female rats during mating and continuing in females throughout gestation and lactation at doses of 50 mg PE / kg or higher .
No effects on fertility were observed in males .
In females , altered estrous cycles , delayed mating , prolonged gestation length , and developmental toxicity were observed at all doses , which were associated with maternal toxicity .
The lowest dose tested is approximately 40 % of the maximum human loading dose on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of SESQUIENT is based upon bioavailability studies comparing SESQUIENT to another intravenous fosphenytoin that does not contain betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium .
The content of betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium present in SESQUIENT limits use in the pediatric population to non - urgent loading dosing and short - term maintenance dosing as replacement for oral phenytoin in patients older than 2 years [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , and Use in Specific Populaitons ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Infusion tolerance was evaluated in clinical studies .
One double - blind study in adult patients assessed infusion - site tolerance of equivalent loading doses ( 15 – 20 mg PE / kg ) of IV fosphenytoin infused at 150 mg PE / min or phenytoin infused at 50 mg / min .
The study demonstrated better local tolerance ( pain and burning at the infusion site ) , fewer disruptions of the infusion , and a shorter infusion period for fosphenytoin - treated patients ( Table 7 ) .
TABLE 7 .
Infusion Tolerance of Equivalent Loading Doses of IV Fosphenytoin and IV PhenytoinaPercent of patients IV fosphenytoin N = 90 IV Phenytoin N = 22 Local Intolerance 9 % a 90 % Infusion Disrupted 21 % 67 % Average Infusion Time 13 min 44 min Fosphenytoin - treated patients , however , experienced more systemic sensory disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Infusion disruptions in fosphenytoin - treated patients were primarily due to systemic burning , pruritus , and / or paresthesia while those in phenytoin - treated patients were primarily due to pain and burning at the infusion site ( see Table 7 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied SESQUIENT is a clear , colorless , sterile solution supplied as follows : 500 mg PE / 10 mL vial ( 50 mg PE / mL ) .
Package contains 10 vials ( NDC 80674 - 210 - 10 ) .
100 mg PE / 2 mL vial ( 50 mg PE / mL ) .
Package contains 25 vials ( NDC 80674 - 102 - 25 ) .
SESQUIENT should always be prescribed in phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 5 mg of fosphenytoin sodium is equivalent to 1 mg phenytoin sodium , and is referred to as 1 mg PE .
The amount and concentration of fosphenytoin is always expressed in terms of mg of phenytoin sodium equivalents ( PE ) .
Fosphenytoin ’ s weight is expressed as phenytoin sodium equivalents to avoid the need to perform molecular weight - based adjustments when substituting fosphenytoin for phenytoin or vice versa .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store SESQUIENT at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Temperature excursions are permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Vials that develop particulate matter should not be used .
Injection vials are single - dose only .
After opening , any unused product should be discarded .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Cardiovascular Risk Associated with Rapid Infusion Inform patients that rapid intravenous administration of SESQUIENT increases the risk of adverse cardiovascular reactions , including severe hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias .
Cardiac arrhythmias have included bradycardia , heart block , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation which have resulted in asystole , cardiac arrest , and death .
Patients should report cardiac signs or symptoms to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Withdrawal of Antiepileptic Drugs Advise patients not to discontinue use of SESQUIENT without consulting with their healthcare provider .
SESQUIENT should normally be gradually withdrawn to reduce the potential for increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Serious Dermatologic Reactions Advise patients of the early signs and symptoms of severe cutaneous adverse reactions and to report any occurrence immediately to a physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Potential Signs of Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) and Other Systemic Reactions Advise patients of the early toxic signs and symptoms of potential hematologic , dermatologic , hypersensitivity , or hepatic reactions .
These symptoms may include , but are not limited to , fever , sore throat , rash , ulcers in the mouth , easy bruising , lymphadenopathy , facial swelling , and petechial or purpuric hemorrhage , and in the case of liver reactions , anorexia , nausea / vomiting , or jaundice .
Advise the patient that , because these signs and symptoms may signal a serious reaction , that they must report any occurrence immediately to a physician .
In addition , advise the patient that these signs and symptoms should be reported even if mild or when occurring after extended use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 8 , 5 . 9 ) ] .
Angioedema Advise patients to discontinue SESQUIENT and seek immediate medical care if they develop signs or symptoms of angioedema such as facial , perioral , or upper airway swelling [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia Advise patients that SESQUIENT may cause an increase in blood glucose levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 16 ) ] .
Effects of Alcohol Use and Other Drugs and Over - the - Counter Drug Interactions Caution patients against the use of other drugs or alcoholic beverages without first seeking their healthcare provider ’ s advice [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
Inform patients that certain over - the - counter medications ( e . g . , cimetidine and omeprazole ) , vitamins ( e . g . , folic acid ) , and herbal supplements ( e . g . , St . John ’ s wort ) can alter their phenytoin levels .
Use in Pregnancy Inform pregnant women and women of childbearing potential that use of SESQUIENT during pregnancy can cause fetal harm , including an increased risk for cleft lip and / or cleft palate ( oral clefts ) , cardiac defects , dysmorphic skull and facial features , nail and digit hypoplasia , growth abnormalities ( including microcephaly ) , and cognitive deficits [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
When appropriate , counsel pregnant women and women of childbearing potential about alternative therapeutic options .
Advise women of childbearing potential who are not planning a pregnancy to use effective contraception while using SESQUIENT , keeping in mind that there is a potential for decreased hormonal contraceptive efficacy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy , and to notify their physician if they are breastfeeding or intend to breastfeed during therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 ) ] .
Encourage patients to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) Pregnancy Registry if they become pregnant .
This registry is collecting information about the safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Emergent BioSolutions Inc Baltimore , MD 21224 Manufactured for : Sedor Pharmaceuticals LLC Paoli , PA 19301 Barcode PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 80674 - 210 - 10 - 500 mg PE / 10 mL Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 80674 - 210 - 10 - 500 mg PE / 10 mL vial label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 80674 - 102 - 25 - 100 mg PE / 2 mL carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 80674 - 102 - 25 - 100 mg PE / 2 mL Vial label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
