Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Vaginal antifungal Uses • • treats vaginal yeast infections • • relieves external itching and irritation due to a vaginal yeast infection Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• • vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine warfarin , because bleeding or bruising may occur .
When using this product • • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• • do not have vaginal intercourse • • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • • symptoms last more than 7 days • • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • before using this product read the enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information • • adults and children 12 years of age and over : • • applicators : insert 1 applicatorful into the vagina at bedtime for 7 nights in a row .
Throw applicator away after use .
• • use the same tube of cream if you have itching and irritation on the skin outside the vagina .
Squeeze a small amount of cream onto your fingertip .
Apply the cream onto the itchy , irritated skin outside the vagina .
Use 2 times daily for up to 7 days , as needed .
• • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • • do not use if seal over tube opening has been punctured • • do not purchase if carton is open • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , glyceryl stearate , mineral oil , peglicol 5 oleate , pegoxol 7 stearate , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer Information 7 - Day Treatment CONSUMER INFORMATION LEAFLET Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream ( 2 % ) VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL Cures Most Vaginal Yeast Infections and Relieves Associated External Itching and Irritation Why should I use this product ?
This product contains a 2 % miconazole nitrate cream that cures most vaginal yeast infections , and can be used for relief of itching and irritation on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) due to a yeast infection .
Do not use this product if this is the first time you have vaginal discharge , itching , burning and discomfort .
See your doctor or health professional first to find out the cause of your symptoms .
If a doctor has told you in the past that you had a vaginal yeast infection and you have the same symptoms now ( such as vaginal discharge , itching or burning ) , then this product may work for you .
What is a vaginal yeast infection ?
A vaginal yeast infection is a common condition caused by an overgrowth of yeast ( Candida ) that may normally live in the vagina .
Your doctor may call this infection “ monilia ” or “ candidiasis . ”
Some women may have a yeast infection on the skin outside of the vagina ( vulva ) at the same time that they have a vaginal infection .
Who can get a vaginal yeast infection ?
You can get a vaginal yeast infection at any age .
It is most common during the childbearing years .
Women who are pregnant or diabetic , taking antibiotics , birth control pills or steroids , or who have a weakened immune system are more likely to get repeated yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
Some medical conditions can weaken the body ' s normal ability to fight infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
The HIV virus causes the body to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
If you may have been exposed to HIV and get repeated vaginal yeast infections , you should see your doctor right away .
For more information on HIV infection , please contact your doctor or the CDC National AIDS HOTLINE .
The CDC phone numbers are : 1 - 800 - 232 - 4636 ( English / Spanish ) , or 1 - 888 - 232 - 6348 ( hearing impaired , TTY ) .
How can I tell if I have a vaginal yeast infection ?
When you have a vaginal yeast infection , you may have one or more of the following symptoms : • • vaginal itching • • vaginal discharge that may be thick , white , and lumpy like cottage cheese • • vaginal soreness , irritation , or burning • • rash or redness on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) • • burning on urination • • painful vaginal intercourse ( sex ) Note : Vaginal yeast infections do NOT cause fever , chills , lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , foul - smelling vaginal discharge , or a missed period .
These may be signs of a sexually transmitted disease ( STD ) or a tubal pregnancy .
If you have these symptoms , call your doctor right away .
What are other causes of a vaginal discharge ?
It is normal to have a small amount of vaginal discharge at certain times of the month .
This normal discharge may be clear or slightly white and does not cause itching , pain or a foul odor .
The most common cause of an abnormal vaginal discharge is an infection .
These infections include bacterial vaginosis ( BV ) , trichomoniasis ( Trich ) , gonorrhea ( GC ) and / or chlamydia .
All of these may be transmitted sexually and are called sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
If you have more questions about sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) call the CDC Hotline at 1 - 800 - 232 - 4636 .
Although many of the infections mentioned above can cause symptoms similar to a vaginal yeast infection ( vaginal discharge , irritation and itching ) , their diagnosis must be made by a doctor so that proper treatment can be given .
If these infections are not properly treated or if proper treatment is delayed , serious problems , such as pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) may result , which may prevent you from having children in the future .
If you are pregnant and do not get the proper treatment , the infection may be passed to your baby before or during delivery and may cause your baby to have permanent damage .
If you have multiple sex partners or a new sex partner , you should also ask a doctor before use to make sure you do not have an STD .
Why do women get repeated vaginal yeast infections ?
• • Women may get repeated vaginal yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
Listed below are some of the causes of repeated yeast infections : • • hormonal changes occurring a few days before the monthly period • • use of antibiotics • • use of some birth control pills • • pregnancy • • diabetes ( “ sugar ” or “ high blood sugar ” ) • • clothing - wearing tight layers or moist clothing in the genital area • • weakened immune system - some drugs ( such as chemotherapy or steroids ) and medical conditions can weaken the body ' s normal ability to fight infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
Infection with HIV causes the person to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections .
If you get vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) , you should talk to a doctor .
Are vaginal yeast infections sexually transmitted ?
Vaginal yeast infections are usually not spread by having intercourse ( sex ) .
However , if your partner has a rash , itching or discomfort in his genital area , he should contact a doctor to find out the cause of his symptoms and tell the doctor that you are treating your vaginal yeast infection with this product .
How can I prevent repeated vaginal yeast infections ?
To lower your chances of getting another yeast infection : • • Try to keep the genital area cool and dry .
Yeast grow well in warm , moist areas .
The following suggestions may be helpful : • ( 1 ) Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes .
• ( 2 ) Change out of damp clothes or a wet bathing suit as soon as possible .
• ( 3 ) If you use minipads when you are not having a menstrual period , change the minipads often .
• • Talk with your doctor about any drugs you are now taking .
You are more likely to get a vaginal yeast infection if you are taking certain drugs such as antibiotics , steroids , or birth control pills .
Do not stop taking these drugs without first asking your doctor .
A doctor may need to see you to make sure that you do not have other medical conditions such as diabetes or a weakened immune system .
Can I use this product during my menstrual period ?
Yes , this product can be used during your menstrual period .
In fact , many women get vaginal yeast infections just before their period because of hormonal changes .
Using this product during your period will not affect how well this product works .
If you have started treatment and your period occurs , you should complete the full course of treatment .
Do not use tampons while using this product , because tampons may remove some of the drug from the vagina .
Use deodorant - free sanitary napkins or pads instead , and change them often .
Can I use other vaginal products with this product ?
This drug should not be used with other vaginal products .
• ( 4 ) Douches and tampons may remove some of the cream from the vagina .
• ( 5 ) Spermicides may interfere with this product .
• ( 6 ) Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged by this product and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
How can I get the best results when treating my infection ?
• ( 7 ) Use 1 applicator full of vaginal cream at bedtime , even during your menstrual period for 7 nights in a row .
• ( 8 ) Use the cream externally only while symptoms are present .
If you have symptoms ( such as itching and irritation ) on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) , apply the cream externally 2 times a day , up to a total of 7 days , as needed .
• ( 9 ) Dry the genital area thoroughly after a shower , bath or swim .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp clothes as soon as possible .
A dry area is less likely to lead to the overgrowth of yeast .
• ( 10 ) Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes .
• ( 11 ) Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement or after urination .
• ( 12 ) Do not douche , because douching may wash the drug out of the vagina .
• ( 13 ) Do not use tampons , because they remove some of the drug from the vagina .
Use deodorant - free sanitary napkins or pads as needed .
• ( 14 ) Do not use spermicides , as they may interfere with this product .
• ( 15 ) Do not have vaginal intercourse while using this product .
• ( 16 ) Do not scratch the skin outside the vagina .
Scratching can cause more irritation and can spread the infection .
• ( 17 ) Tell your doctor about any drugs you are now taking . Certain drugs such as antibiotics , steroids , and birth control pills , may make it more likely for you to get a vaginal yeast infection .
If you are taking any of these drugs do not stop taking them without first asking a doctor .
• ( 18 ) If you have any other medical questions or concerns about vaginal yeast infections , call your doctor .
What warnings should I know about when using this product ?
For vaginal use only .
Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time .
You may need a different treatment .
• • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You could have a more serious condition .
• • vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine , warfarin ( coumadin ) , because bleeding or bruising may occur .
When using this product : • • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• • do not have vaginal intercourse • • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product How Should I Use Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream with Disposable Applicators ?
This product is for adults and children 12 years of age and over .
For children under 12 years , ask a doctor .
Directions for using the Vaginal Cream : Begin treatment before going to bed : 1 Open the tube by unscrewing the cap .
The first time the tube is opened , press the sharp point of the cap into the sealed end of the tube .
Push down firmly until the seal is open .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Attach the applicator to the tube of cream by placing “ A ” end of the applicator firmly onto tube of cream .
( See picture . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 Gently squeeze the cream into the applicator , continue squeezing until applicator is full .
Separate the applicator from the tube .
DO NOT release pressure on the tube until you have separated it from the filled applicator .
After each use , replace the cap and roll up the tube from the bottom .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 Hold the barrel as shown in the picture .
5 Gently insert the applicator into the vagina as far as it will go comfortably .
This can be done while lying on your back with your knees bent ( as shown in the picture ) or while standing with your feet apart and knees bent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 With one hand holding the barrel , use the other hand to push the plunger all the way in to place the cream as far back in the vagina as possible .
Then remove both parts of the applicator from the vagina .
7 Throw the applicator away after use .
Do not flush in toilet .
8 Lie down as soon as possible after inserting the cream .
This will reduce leakage .
9 Repeat steps 2 through 8 before bedtime for the next 6 days .
You may want to use deodorant - free pads or pantyshields to protect your clothing during the time that you are using this product .
This is because the vaginal cream can leak or you may get some discharge .
Do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , condoms or diaphragms until after you have completed the treatment and your symptoms are gone .
Directions for using the Vaginal Cream Externally Use externally twice daily , for up to 7 days as needed .
1 .
Squeeze a small amount of cream onto your fingertip .
2 .
Apply the cream onto the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) that itches and is irritated .
3 .
Screw the cap back on the tube .
4 .
Repeat steps 1 - 3 each morning and at bedtime for up to 7 days , as needed .
Stop use and ask your doctor if : • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
These may be signs that this product is not working , or you may have a more serious condition or an allergic reaction .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
What side effects may occur with this product ?
A mild increase in vaginal burning , itching , or irritation may occur when the applicator containing the cream is inserted .
Abdominal cramping has also been reported .
Stop using this product and consult your doctor if you have abdominal pain , hives , skin rash , or if you have severe vaginal burning , itching , or irritation or swelling .
What should I do if I have questions about this product ?
Questions of a medical nature should be taken up with your doctor .
If you have any other questions or need more information on this product , call our toll - free number 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Other Information : • • TAMPER - EVIDENT UNIT - do not use if tube seal has been punctured .
• • store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) Active Ingredient : miconazole nitrate 2 % ( 100 mg per applicator ) Inactive Ingredients : benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , glyceryl stearate , mineral oil , peglicol 5 oleate , pegoxol 7 stearate , purified water .
Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 02 / 16 : 82500 00 J3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Compare to Monistat ® 7 with 7 Disposable Applicators active ingredient Miconazole 7 Cream MICONAZOLE NITRATE VAGINAL CREAM ( 2 % ) Vaginal Antifungal Quality Guaranteed 7 - DAY TREATMENT CURES most vaginal YEAST INFECTIONS Relieves associated external itching and irritation 7 Day Treatment Cream with 7 Disposable Applicators NEW WT .
159 OZ .
( 45 g ) TUBE + 7 DISPOSABLE APPLICATORS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
