Drug Facts Shampoo Active ingredients Piperonyl butoxide ( 4 % ) Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Purpose Lice treatment Uses Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Warnings For external use only Do not use · near the eyes · inside the nose , mouth , or vagina · on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
· if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product ● keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel ● if product gets in eyes , flush with water right away ● scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if ● breathing difficulty occurs ● eye irritation occurs ● skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ● Important : Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over : Inspect ● check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) ● look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears ● examine small sections of hair at a time ● unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair ● if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product Treat ● apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
● allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer ● use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse ● for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) ● use a fine - tooth or special lice / nit comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
● hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits ● if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water ● for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
● lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
● pin back each strand of hair after combing ● clean comb often .
Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back .
● after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / nits .
Repeat combing if necessary .
● check daily for any lice / nits that you missed ● a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice ● if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information Other information ● keep carton for important product information ● see Consumer Information Insert for additional information ● avoid excessive heat Inactive ingredients ammonium laureth sulfate , dehydrated alcohol , fragrance , isopropyl alcohol , PEG - 25 hydrogenated castor oil , polyquaternium - 10 , purified water Questions or Comments Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - RID - LICE ( 1 - 800 - 743 - 5423 ) ( Mon – Fri 9 AM – 8 PM EST ) www . ridlice . com Lice & Egg Comb Out Spray Use RID ® Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray detangles hair in order to make lice and egg comb - out easier .
For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Directions For Use ● Before using , read Consumer Information Insert for complete directions .
● Use AFTER shampooing with RID ® Lice Killing Shampoo .
● Towel dry hair .
Apply a small amount of RID ® Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray and use a wide - toothed comb to remove any tangles .
● Comb out the dead lice , eggs , and nits , one small section at a time , with the enclosed RIDvantage ® Jr .
Lice Comb .
( See insert for additional combing instructions ) .
This step is very important .
● Use additional RID ® Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray to remove tangles , if needed , during the comb - out process .
● After you have combed entire head , rinse hair thoroughly with warm water .
Disinfect combs with hot water ( 130ºF ) .
Other Information ● It is important to wash in hot water ( 130ºF ) all clothing , bedding , towels , and hair products ( combs , brushes ) used by infested persons in the two days prior to treatment .
● Dry clean non - washable fabrics .
● To eliminate infestation of furniture and bedding that cannot be washed or dry cleaned , a multi - use lice spray such as RID ® Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray may be used .
● RID ® Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray does not kill lice or their eggs .
Use this product only after treating with RID ® Lice Killing Shampoo .
● Store in a cool , dry place .
Keep from freezing .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - RID - LICE ( 1 - 800 - 743 - 5423 ) Consumer Information [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RID LICE TREAMENT COMPLETE KIT LICE TREATMENT Easy - to - Follow 3 - step Process Instructions inside • Treat • Remove • Control 24 / 7 SUPPORT CALL AN EXPERT 1 - 800 - RID - LICE HOW -- TO VIDEOS TRATAMIENTO DE PIOJOS -- KIT COMPLETO Se incluyen instrucciones en espanol SHAMPOO NET WT .
4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) COMB - OUT SPRAY NET WT .
2 FL OZ ( 59 mL ) RID ® HOME LICE , BEDBUG & DUST MITE SPRAY NET WT .
3 oz ( 851 g ) 1 PATENTED ® RID LICE COMB KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN CAUTION See Back Panel for Additional Precautions [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
