Drug Facts Active ingredient ( per powder ) Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever and other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose and throat Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to common cold : • runny nose • sneezing Warnings Do not use with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • glaucoma • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • excitability may occur , especially in children If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use to make a child sleepy .
Directions adults and children 12 years and over : • see instructions in red box for opening packet • place 25 mg ( 1 powder ) to 50 mg ( 2 powders ) on the tongue and swallow with or without water • take every 4 to 6 hours • do not take more than 300 mg ( 12 powders ) in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age : • place 12 . 5 mg ( this dose strength is not available in this package ) to 25 mg ( 1 powder ) on the tongue and swallow with or without water • take every 4 to 6 hours • do not take more than 150 mg ( 6 powders ) in 24 hours • do not attempt to divide a powder in half children under 6 years of age : do not use Inactive ingredients citric acid , ethylcellulose , flavor , glucose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , starch , sucralose , sucrose Questions ?
1 - 888 - 998 - 7436 ( Mon - Fri 9 AM - 5 PM MDT ) Do not use if pouch is torn or open distributed by URGENT Rx ® Breakthrough Products , Inc .
Denver , CO 80202 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Powder Packet New !
NO WATER REQUIRED POUR DIRECTLY IN MOUTH URGENT Rx ® FAST POWDERS ™ SEE OPENING INSTRUCTIONS ON BACK PANEL ALLERGY ATTACK URGENT Rx ® RELIEF TO - GO ™ DIPHENHYDRAMINE HCl / ANTIHISTAMINE raspberry distributed by UrgentRx 1 POWDER PACK [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
