RYZOLT ™ ( tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) DescriptionRYZOLT ™ ( tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) is a centrally acting analgesic composed of a dual - matrix delivery system with both immediate - release and extended - release characteristics .
The chemical name for tramadol hydrochloride is ( ± ) cis - 2 - [ ( dimethylamino ) methyl ] - 1 - ( 3 - methoxyphenyl ) cyclohexanol hydrochloride .
Its structural formula is : C16H25NO2 · HCl [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of tramadol hydrochloride is 299 . 8 .
Tramadol hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water and ethanol .
RYZOLT ™ extended - release tablets are for oral administration and contain 100 mg , 200 mg or 300 mg of tramadol hydrochloride .
The tablets are white to off - white in color .
The inactive ingredients in the tablet are colloidal silicon dioxide , pregelatinized modified starch , hydrogenated vegetable oil , magnesium stearate , polyvinyl acetate , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical PharmacologyMechanism of ActionRYZOLT ™ is a centrally acting synthetic opioid analgesic .
Although its mode of action is not completely understood , at least two complementary mechanisms that demonstrate three different types of activity appear applicable : binding of parent and M1 metabolite to µ - opioid receptors and weak inhibition of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin .
Opioid activity is due to both low affinity binding of the parent compound and higher affinity binding of the O - demethylated metabolite ( M1 ) to mu - opioid receptors .
In animal models , M1 is up to 6 times more potent than tramadol in producing analgesia and 200 times more potent in mu - opioid binding .
Tramadol - induced analgesia is only partially antagonized by the opiate antagonist naloxone in several animal tests .
The relative contribution of both tramadol and M1 to human analgesia is dependent upon the plasma concentrations of each compound .
Tramadol has been shown to inhibit reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in vitro , as have some other opioid analgesics .
These mechanisms may contribute independently to the overall analgesic profile of tramadol .
Apart from analgesia , tramadol hydrochloride administration may produce various symptoms ( including dizziness , somnolence , nausea , constipation , sweating and pruritus ) similar to that of other opioids .
In contrast to morphine , tramadol has not been shown to cause histamine release .
At therapeutic doses , tramadol has no effect on heart rate , left - ventricular function or cardiac index .
Orthostatic hypotension has been observed .
PharmacokineticsThe analgesic activity of tramadol hydrochloride is due to both parent drug and the M1 metabolite ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Mechanism of Action ) .
RYZOLT ™ is formulated as a racemate and both tramadol and M1 are detected in the circulation .
The pharmacokinetics of tramadol and M1 are dose - proportional over a 100 to 300 mg dose range in healthy subjects .
AbsorptionThe median time to peak plasma concentrations of tramadol and M1 after multiple - dose administration of RYZOLT ™ 200 mg tablets to healthy subjects are attained at about 4 h and 5 h , respectively ( Table 1 and Figure 1 ) .
The pharmacokinetic parameter values for RYZOLT ™ 200 mg administered once daily and tramadol immediate - release 50 mg administered every six hours are provided in Table 1 .
The relative bioavailability of a 200 mg RYZOLT ™ tablet compared to a 50 mg immediate - release tablet dosed every six hours was approximately 95 % in healthy subjects .
Steady - state plasma concentrations are reached within approximately 48 hours .
Figure 1 .
Mean Tramadol Plasma Concentrations at Steady State Following Five Days of Oral Administration of RYZOLT ™ 200 mg Once Daily and Immediate - Release Tramadol 50 mg Every 6 Hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 .
Mean M1 Plasma Concentrations at Steady State Following Five Days of Oral Administration of RYZOLT ™ 200 mg Once Daily and Immediate - Release Tramadol 50 mg Every 6 Hours [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food EffectCo - administration with a high fat meal did not significantly affect AUC ( overall exposure to tramadol ) ; however , Cmax ( peak plasma concentration ) increased 67 % following a single 300 mg tablet administration and 54 % following a single 200 mg tablet administration .
RYZOLT ™ was administered without regard to food in all clinical trials .
DistributionThe volume of distribution of tramadol is 2 . 6 and 2 . 9 L / kg in males and females , respectively , following a 100 mg intravenous dose .
The binding of tramadol to human plasma proteins is approximately 20 % .
Protein binding also appears to be independent of concentration up to 10 µg / mL .
Saturation of plasma protein binding occurs only at concentrations outside the clinically relevant range .
MetabolismTramadol is extensively metabolized after oral administration .
The major metabolic pathways appear to be N - and O - demethylation and glucuronidation or sulfation in the liver .
N - demethylation is mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 .
One metabolite ( O - desmethyltramadol , denoted M1 ) is pharmacologically active in animal models .
Formation of M1 is dependent on CYP2D6 and as such is subject to inhibition and polymorphism , which may affect the therapeutic response ( See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
EliminationTramadol is eliminated primarily through metabolism by the liver and the metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys .
Approximately 30 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug , whereas 60 % of the dose is excreted as metabolites .
The remainder is excreted either as unidentified or as unextractable metabolites .
After single administration of RYZOLT ™ , the mean terminal plasma elimination half - lives of racemic tramadol and racemic M1 are 6 . 5 ± 1 . 5 and 7 . 5 ± 1 . 4 hours , respectively .
Special PopulationsRenal ImpairmentImpaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite , M1 in patients taking an immediate - release formulation of tramadol .
RYZOLT ™ has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of RYZOLT ™ do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe renal impairment .
Therefore , RYZOLT ™ should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) ( See WARNINGS , Use in Renal and Hepatic Disease and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The total amount of tramadol and M1 removed during a 4 - hour dialysis period is less than 7 % of the administered dose .
Hepatic ImpairmentThe metabolism of tramadol and M1 is reduced in patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver , resulting in both a larger area under the concentration time curve ( AUC ) for tramadol and longer mean tramadol and M1 elimination half - lives ( 13 hours for tramadol and 19 hours for M1 ) after the administration of tramadol immediate - release tablets .
RYZOLT ™ has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of RYZOLT ™ do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with hepatic impairment .
Therefore , RYZOLT ™ should not be used in patients with hepatic impairment ( see WARNINGS , Use in Renal and Hepatic Disease and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric PatientsHealthy elderly subjects aged 65 to 75 years administered an immediate - release formulation of tramadol , have plasma concentrations and elimination half - lives comparable to those observed in healthy subjects less than 65 years of age .
In subjects over 75 years , mean maximum plasma concentrations are elevated ( 208 vs . 162 ng / mL ) and the mean elimination half - life is prolonged ( 7 vs . 6 hours ) compared to subjects 65 to 75 years of age .
Adjustment of the daily dose is recommended for patients older than 75 years ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
GenderFollowing a 100 mg IV dose of tramadol , plasma clearance was 6 . 4 mL / min / kg in males and 5 . 7 mL / min / kg in females .
Following a single oral dose of immediate - release tramadol , and after adjusting for body weight , females had a 12 % higher peak tramadol concentration and a 35 % higher area under the concentration - time curve compared to males .
The clinical significance of this difference is unknown .
Drug InteractionsThe formation of the active metabolite of tramadol , M1 , is mediated by CYP2D6 , a polymorphic enzyme .
Approximately 7 % of the population has reduced activity of CYP2D6 .
These individuals are " poor metabolizers " of debrisoquine , dextromethorphan and tricyclic antidepressants , among other drugs .
In studies in healthy subjects administered immediate - release tramadol products , concentrations of tramadol were approximately 20 % higher in " poor metabolizers " versus " extensive metabolizers " , while M1 concentrations were 40 % lower .
In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that inhibitors of CYP2D6 ( amitriptyline , quinidine and fluoxetine and its metabolite norfluoxetine , ) inhibit the metabolism of tramadol to various degrees , suggesting that concomitant administration of these compounds could result in increases in tramadol concentrations and decreased concentrations of M1 .
The full pharmacological impact of these alterations in terms of either efficacy or safety is unknown .
Tramadol is also metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole and erythromycin , or inducers , such as rifampin and St . John ’ s Wort , with RYZOLT ™ may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Quinidine Quinidineis a selective inhibitor of CYP2D6 , so that concomitant administration of quinidine and RYZOLT ™ may result in increased concentrations of tramadol and reduced concentrations of M1 .
The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism .
Carbamazepine Carbamazepine , a CYP3A4 inducer , increases tramadol metabolism .
Patients taking carbamazepine may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol .
Because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol , concomitant administration of RYZOLT ™ and carbamazepine is not recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Cimetidine Concomitant administration of tramadol immediate - release tablets with cimetidine does not result in clinically significant changes in tramadol pharmacokinetics .
No alteration of the RYZOLT ™ dosage regimen with cimetidine is recommended .
Clinical StudiesRYZOLT ™ was studied in four 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , controlled studies in patients with moderate to severe pain due to osteoarthritis .
Efficacy was demonstrated in one double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized withdrawal design study .
In this study , patients who experienced a reduction of pain and were able to tolerate RYZOLT ™ during an open - label titration period , were then randomized to RYZOLT ™ or to placebo for 12 weeks .
Sixty - five percent of patients were able to successfully titrate onto RYZOLT ™ .
After a washout , patients randomized to RYZOLT ™ were titrated to 200 mg or 300 mg of RYZOLT ™ based on tolerability and remained on that dose for the following 12 - week period .
Approximately 24 % of patients discontinued during the randomized period of the study , with more patients discontinuing from the RYZOLT ™ arm than the placebo arm due to adverse events ( 10 % vs . 5 % , respectively ) and more patients discontinuing from the placebo arm than the RYZOLT ™ arm due to lack of efficacy ( 10 % vs . 8 % , respectively ) .
Patients treated with RYZOLT ™ demonstrated a greater improvement in pain intensity , measured on an 11 - point numerical rating scale , at the end of treatment compared to patients randomized to placebo .
Figure 3 shows the fraction of patients achieving various degree of improvement in pain from baseline to the end of treatment ( week 12 ) .
The figure is cumulative , so that patients whose change from baseline is , for example , 50 % , are also included at every level of improvement below 50 % .
Patients who did not complete the study were assigned 0 % improvement .
Figure 3 .
Proportion of Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief as Measured by 12 - Week Pain Intensity .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Indications and UsageRYZOLT ™ is indicated for the management of moderate to moderately severe chronic pain in adults who require around - the - clock treatment of their pain for an extended period of time .
ContraindicationsRYZOLT ™ should not be administered to patients who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to tramadol , any other component of this product or opioids .
WarningsSeizure Risk Seizures have been reported in patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride within the recommended dosage range .
Spontaneous postmarketing reports indicate that seizure risk is increased with doses above the recommended range .
Concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride increases the seizure risk in patients taking : • Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRI antidepressants or anorectics ) , • Tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , and other tricyclic compounds ( e . g . , cyclobenzaprine , promethazine , etc . ) , or • Other opioids .
Administration of RYZOLT ™ may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking : • Monoamine Oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ( See also WARNINGS – Use with MAO Inhibitors and Serotonin Re - uptake Inhibitors ) , • Neuroleptics , or • Other drugs that reduce the seizure threshold .
Risk of convulsions may also be increased in patients with epilepsy , those with a history of seizures , or in patients with a recognized risk for seizure ( such as head trauma , certain metabolic disorders , alcohol and drug withdrawal and CNS infections ) .
In tramadol overdose , naloxone administration may increase the risk of seizures .
Suicide Risk Do not prescribe RYZOLT ™ for patients who are suicidal or addiction - prone .
Prescribe RYZOLT ™ with caution for patients taking tranquilizers or antidepressant drugs and for patients who use alcohol in excess .
Serious potential consequences of overdosage with RYZOLT ™ are central nervous system depression , respiratory depression and death .
In treating an overdose , primary attention should be given to maintaining adequate ventilation along with general supportive treatment ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Serotonin Syndrome Risk The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with the use of tramadol products , including RYZOLT ™ , particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , MAOIs , and triptans , with drugs which impair metabolism of serotonin ( including MAOIs ) , and with drugs which impair metabolism of tramadol ( CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors ) .
This may occur within the recommended dose ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Serotonin syndrome may include mental - status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Tramadol products in excessive doses , either alone or in combination with other Central Nervous System ( CNS ) depressants , including alcohol , are a major cause of drug - related deaths .
Fatalities within the first hour of overdosage are not uncommon .
Tramadol should not be taken in doses higher than those recommended by the physician .
The judicious prescribing of tramadol is essential to the safe use of this drug .
With patients who are depressed or suicidal , consideration should be given to the use of non - narcotic analgesics .
Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of tramadol products and alcohol because of potentially serious CNS - additive effects of these agents .
Because of its added depressant effects , tramadol should be prescribed with caution for those patients whose medical condition requires the concomitant administration of sedatives , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , antidepressants , or other CNS - depressant drugs .
Patients should be advised of the additive depressant effects of these combinations .
Many of the tramadol - related deaths have occurred in patients with previous histories of emotional disturbances or suicidal ideation or attempts as well as histories of misuse of tranquilizers , alcohol , and other CNS - active drugs .
Some deaths have occurred as a consequence of the accidental ingestion of excessive quantities of tramadol alone or in combination with other drugs .
Patients taking tramadol should be warned not to exceed the dose recommended by their physician .
Anaphylactoid ReactionsSerious and rarely fatal anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with tramadol .
When these events do occur , it is often following the first dose .
Other reported allergic reactions include pruritus , hives , bronchospasm , angioedema , toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Patients with a history of anaphylactoid reactions to other opioids may be at increased risk and therefore should not receive RYZOLT ™ ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Respiratory DepressionRYZOLT ™ should be administered cautiously in patients at risk for respiratory depression .
In these patients , alternative non - opioid analgesics should be considered .
When large doses of tramadol are administered with anesthetic medications or alcohol , respiratory depression may result .
Respiratory depression should be treated as an overdose .
If naloxone is to be administered , use cautiously because it may precipitate seizures ( See WARNINGS , Seizure Risk and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Interaction with Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants RYZOLT ™ should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients receiving CNS depressants such as alcohol , opioids , anesthetic agents , narcotics , phenothiazines , tranquilizers or sedative hypnotics .
Tramadol increases the risk of CNS and respiratory depression in these patients .
Increased Intracranial Pressure or Head TraumaRYZOLT ™ should be used with caution in patients with increased intracranial pressure or head injury .
The respiratory depressant effects of opioids include carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure , and may be markedly exaggerated in these patients .
Additionally , pupillary changes ( miosis ) from tramadol may obscure the existence , extent , or course of intracranial pathology .
Clinicians should also maintain a high index of suspicion for adverse drug reaction when evaluating altered mental status in these patients if they are receiving RYZOLT ™ ( See Respiratory Depression ) .
Use in Ambulatory PatientsRYZOLT ™ may impair the mental and physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Patients using this drug should be cautioned accordingly .
Use with MAO Inhibitors and Serotonin Re - uptake InhibitorsRYZOLT ™ should be used with great caution in patients taking MAO inhibitors .
Animal studies have shown increased deaths with combined administration of tramadol and MAO inhibitors .
Concomitant use of tramadol products with MAO inhibitors or SSRIs increases the risk of adverse events , including seizure and serotonin syndrome .
WithdrawalWithdrawal symptoms may occur if RYZOLT ™ is discontinued abruptly .
These symptoms may include : anxiety , sweating , insomnia , rigors , pain , nausea , tremors , diarrhea , upper respiratory symptoms , piloerection , and rarely hallucinations .
In a 12 week study , 325 patients were followed for 3 and 7 days after discontinuation of treatment with RYZOLT ™ .
The majority of reported post - treatment adverse events including withdrawal symptoms were mild to moderate in nature .
Onset of the post - treatment adverse events occurred more frequently within the first three days after treatment was stopped .
Less than 1 % of patients taking RYZOLT ™ met the DSM - IV criteria for a diagnosis of opioid withdrawal .
Clinical experience suggests that signs and symptoms of withdrawal may be reduced by tapering medication when discontinuing tramadol therapy .
Misuse , Abuse and Diversion of OpioidsTramadol is an opioid agonist of the morphine type .
Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Like other opioid agonists , legal or illicit , tramadol can be abused .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing RYZOLT ™ in situations where the healthcare professional is concerned about a risk of misuse , abuse , or diversion .
RYZOLT ™ could be abused by breaking , crushing , chewing , or dissolving the product which can result in the uncontrolled delivery of the opioid , and as a consequence poses a significant risk of overdose and death .
Concerns about abuse , addiction , and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain .
Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Tramadol may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids or drugs , whether legal or illicit , which cause central nervous system depression .
Drug Abuse and AddictionAbuseRYZOLT ™ is a mu - agonist opioid .
Tramadol , like other opioids used in analgesia , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiologic disease , with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Concerns about abuse and addiction should not prevent the proper management of pain .
However all patients treated with opioids require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction , because use of opioid analgesic products carries the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use .
“ Drug - seeking ” behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated “ loss ” of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
“ Doctor shopping ” to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
RYZOLT ™ , like other opioids , may be diverted for non - medical use .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
RYZOLT ™ is intended for oral use only .
The crushed tablet poses a hazard of overdose and death .
This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol and other substances .
With parenteral abuse , the tablet excipients can be expected to result in local tissue necrosis , infection , pulmonary granulomas , and increased risk of endocarditis and valvular heart injury .
Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
DependenceTolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist .
The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other symptoms also may develop , including irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
Generally , tolerance and / or withdrawal are more likely to occur the longer a patient is on continuous opioid therapy .
Risk of OverdosageSerious potential consequences of overdosage with RYZOLT ™ are central nervous system depression , respiratory depression and death .
In treating an overdose , primary attention should be given to maintaining adequate ventilation along with general supportive treatment ( See OVERDOSAGE ) .
PrecautionsAcute Abdominal ConditionsThe administration of RYZOLT ™ may complicate the clinical assessment of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Use in Renal and Hepatic DiseaseImpaired renal function results in a decreased rate and extent of excretion of tramadol and its active metabolite , M1 in patients taking an immediate - release formulation of tramadol .
RYZOLT ™ has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of RYZOLT ™ do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with severe renal impairment .
Therefore , RYZOLT ™ should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The metabolism of tramadol and M1 is reduced in patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver .
RYZOLT ™ has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
The limited availability of dose strengths and once daily dosing of RYZOLT ™ do not permit the dosing flexibility required for safe use in patients with hepatic impairment .
Therefore , RYZOLT ™ should not be used in patients with hepatic impairment ( seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYand DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Adverse Reactions RYZOLT ™ was administered to a total of 2707 subjects ( 2406 patients and 301 healthy volunteers ) during clinical studies , including four randomized double - blind studies ( treatment ≥ 12 weeks ) and two open - label long - term studies ( treatment up to 12 months ) in patients with moderate to severe pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee .
A total of 844 patients were exposed to RYZOLT ™ for 12 weeks , 493 patients for 6 months and 243 patients for 12 months .
Treatment emergent adverse events increased with dose from 100 mg to 300 mg in the three twelve - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
The majority of patients who experienced the most common adverse events ( ≥ 5 % ) reported mild to moderate symptoms .
Less than 3 % of adverse events were rated as severe .
Overall , onset of these adverse events usually occurred within the first two weeks of treatment .
Adverse reactions with an incidence of 1 . 0 % to less than 5 . 0 % Ear and labyrinth disorders : vertigo Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , upper abdominal pain General disorders : fatigue , weakness Investigations : weight decreased Metabolism and nutrition disorders : anorexia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : arthralgia Nervous system disorders : headache , tremor Psychiatric disorders : anxiety , insomnia Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : pruritus , sweating increased Vascular disorders : hot flushes Adverse reactions with an incidence of less than 1 . 0 % Blood and lymphatic system disorders : anemia , thrombocytopenia Cardiac disorders : bradycardia Eye disorders : blurred vision , visual disturbance Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal discomfort , abdominal distension , abdominal tenderness , change in bowel habit , constipation aggravated , diverticulitis , diverticulum , dyspepsia aggravated , dysphagia , fecal impaction , gastric irritation , gastritis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gastrointestinal irritation , gastro - esophageal reflux disease , lower abdominal pain , pancreatitis aggravated , rectal hemorrhage , rectal prolapse , retching General disorders : asthenia , malaise Hepatobiliary disorders : biliary tract disorder , cholelithiasis Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity Investigations : alanine aminotransferase decreased , alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase decreased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , blood amylase increased , blood creatinine increased , blood in stool , blood potassium abnormal , blood pressure increased gamma glutamyltransferase increased Metabolism and nutrition disorders : appetite decreased , dehydration Nervous system disorders : ataxia , disturbance in attention , dysarthria , gait abnormal , headache aggravated , mental impairment , sedation , seizure , sleep apnea syndrome , syncope , tremor Psychiatric disorders : abnormal behavior , agitation , anxiety , confusion , depression , emotional disturbance , euphoric mood , indifference , irritability , libido decreased , nervousness , sleep disorder Renal and urinary disorders : difficulty in micturition , urinary hesitation , urinary retention Reproductive system and breast disorders : erectile dysfunction , sexual dysfunction Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : allergic dermatitis , cold sweat , dermatitis , night sweats , pallor , generalized pruritus , urticaria Vascular disorders : flushing , hypertension , hypotension , orthostatic hypotension OverdosageAcute overdosage with tramadol can be manifested by respiratory depression , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , bradycardia , hypotension and death .
Death due to overdose have been reported with abuse and misuse of tramadol , by ingesting , inhaling , or injecting the crushed tablets .
The risk of fatal overdose is further increased when tramadol is abused concurrently with alcohol and other CNS depressants , including other opioids .
In the treatment of tramadol overdosage , primary attention should be given to the re - establishment of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) should be employed in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema accompanying overdose as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias may require cardiac massage or defibrillation .
While naloxone will reverse some ( but not all ) symptoms caused by overdosage with tramadol , the risk of seizures is also increased with naloxone administration .
In animals , convulsions following the administration of toxic doses of tramadol could be suppressed with barbiturates or benzodiazepines but were increased with naloxone .
Naloxone administration did not change the lethality of an overdose in mice .
Hemodialysis is not expected to be helpful in an overdose because it removes less than 7 % of the administered dose in a 4 - hour dialysis period .
Dosage and AdministrationRYZOLT ™ extended - release tablets should be taken once a day .
The tablets should be swallowed whole with liquid and not split , chewed , dissolved or crushed .
RYZOLT ™ tablets produce a continuous release of active ingredient over 24 hours : a repeat dosage within 24 hours is not recommended .
Patients Not Currently on Tramadol Immediate - Release Products : Treatment with RYZOLT ™ should be initiated at a dose of 100 mg / day .
Daily doses should be titrated by 100 mg / day increments every 2 - 3 days ( i . e . , start 200 mg / day on day 3 or 4 of therapy ) to achieve a balance between adequate pain control and tolerability for the individual patient .
For patients requiring the 300 mg daily dose , titration should take at least 4 days ( i . e . 300 mg / day on day 5 ) .
The usual daily dose is 200 or 300 mg .
The daily dose and titration should be individualized for each patient .
Therapy should be continued with the lowest effective dose .
RYZOLT ™ should not be administered at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day .
Clinical experience suggests that signs and symptoms of withdrawal may be reduced by tapering medication when discontinuing tramadol therapy .
Patients Currently on Tramadol Immediate - Release Products : For patients maintained on tramadol immediate release ( IR ) products , the 24 - hour tramadol IR dose should be calculated and the patient should be initiated on a total daily dose of RYZOLT ™ rounded down to the next lowest 100 mg increment .
The dose may subsequently be individualized according to patient need .
Due to limitations in flexibility of dose selection with RYZOLT ™ , some patients maintained on tramadol IR products may not be able to convert to RYZOLT ™ .
RYZOLT ™ should not be administered at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day .
Do not use RYZOLT ™ with other tramadol products .
( see WARNINGS ) .
Individualization of DoseGood pain management practice dictates that analgesic dose be individualized according to patient need using the lowest beneficial dose .
Studies with tramadol products in adults have shown that starting at the lowest possible dose and titrating upward will result in fewer discontinuations and increased tolerability .
Renal and Hepatic DiseaseRYZOLT ™ should not be used in patients with : • Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min , • Hepatic impairment .
( See WARNINGS , Use in Renal and Hepatic Disease ) .
Geriatric patients ( 65 years of age and older ) In general , dose selection for patients over 65 years of age who may have decreased hepatic or renal function , or other concomitant diseases , should be initiated cautiously , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range .
RYZOLT ™ should be administered with greater caution at the lowest effective dose in patients over 75 years , due to the potential for greater frequency of adverse events in this population .
How SuppliedRYZOLT ™ ( tramadol hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) are supplied in a number of packages and dose strengths : 100 - mg , white , beveled edge , round biconvex tablets , plain on one side and printed " PP 100 " in black ink on the other side .
Bottle of 30 tablets – NDC 59011 - 334 - 30 Bottle of 90 tablets – NDC 59011 - 334 - 90 200 - mg , white , beveled edge , round biconvex tablets , plain on one side and printed " PP 200 " in black ink on the other side Bottle of 30 tablets – NDC 59011 - 335 - 30 Bottle of 90 tablets – NDC 59011 - 335 - 90 300 - mg , white , beveled edge , round biconvex tablets , plain on one side and printed " PP 300 " in black ink on the other side Bottle of 30 tablets – NDC 59011 - 336 - 30 Bottle of 90 tablets – NDC 59011 - 336 - 90 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Warning : keep out of reach of children .
Manufactured by : Confab Laboratories Inc Saint - Hubert , Quebec , Canada J3Y 3X3 Distributed by : Purdue Pharma L . P . Stamford , CT 06901 - 3431 Licensed from Labopharm Europe Limited U . S . Patent 6 , 607 , 748 ; U . S . Patent 5 , 591 , 452 ; U . S . Patent 6 , 254 , 887 RYZOLTTM is a trademark of Purdue Pharma L . P . Information for PatientsPatients should be instructed that : • RYZOLT ™ is for oral use only and should be swallowed whole with a sufficient quantity of liquid and not split , chewed , dissolved or crushed .
• RYZOLT ™ may cause seizures and / or serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of serotonergic agents ( including SSRIs , SNRIs and triptans ) or drugs that significantly reduce the metabolic clearance of tramadol .
• RYZOLT ™ should be taken once daily , at approximately the same time every day and that exceeding these instructions can result in respiratory depression , seizures or death .
• RYZOLT ™ should not be taken in doses exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose as exceeding these recommendations can result in respiratory depression , seizures or even death ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) • RYZOLT ™ may impair the mental and physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Patients using this drug should be cautioned accordingly .
• RYZOLT ™ should not be taken with alcohol - containing beverages .
• RYZOLT ™ should be used with caution when taking medications such as tranquilizers , hypnotics or other opiate containing analgesics .
• Female patients should be instructed to inform the physician if they are pregnant , think they might become pregnant , or are trying to become pregnant ( See PRECAUTIONS - Pregnancy and Labor and Delivery ) .
• Clinical experience suggests that signs and symptoms of withdrawal may be reduced by tapering medication when discontinuing tramadol therapy .
• Patients should be informed to keep RYZOLT ™ out of reach of children .
Use in Drug and Alcohol Addiction RYZOLT ™ is an opioid with no approved use for the management of addictive disorders .
Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence , either active or in remission is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia .
Drug InteractionsCYP2D6 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Concomitant administration of CYP2D6 and / or CYP3A4 inhibitors ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) , such as quinidine , fluoxetine , paroxetine and amitriptyline ( CYP2D6 inhibitors ) , and ketoconazole and erythromycin ( CYP3A4 inhibitors ) , may reduce metabolic clearance of tramadol increasing the risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome .
Serotonergic Drugs : There have been postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of tramadol and SSRIs / SNRIs or MAOIs and α2 - adrenergic blockers .
Caution is advised when RYZOLT ™ is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems , such as SSRIs , MAOIs , triptans , linezolid ( an antibiotic which is a reversible non - selective MAOI ) , lithium , or St . John ’ s Wort .
If concomitant treatment of RYZOLT ™ with a drug affecting the serotonergic neurotransmitter system is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see WARNINGS , Serotonin Syndrome ) .
Triptans : Based on the mechanism of action of tramadol and the potential for serotonin syndrome , caution is advised when RYZOLT ™ is coadministered with a triptan .
If concomitant treatment of RYZOLT ™ with a triptan is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see WARNINGS , Serotonin Syndrome ) .
Use with CarbamazepinePatients taking carbamazepine , a CYP3A4inducer , may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect .
Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol , concomitant administration of RYZOLT ™ and carbamazepine is not recommended .
Use with QuinidineTramadol is metabolized to M1 by CYP2D6 .
Quinidineis a selective inhibitor of that isoenzyme , so that concomitant administration of quinidine and tramadol products results in increased concentrations of tramadol and reduced concentrations of M1 .
The clinical consequences of these findings are unknown .
In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that tramadol has no effect on quinidine metabolism .
Use with Digoxin and WarfarinPost - marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity and alteration of warfarin effect , including elevation of prothrombin times .
Interaction With Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depressants RYZOLT ™ should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients receiving CNS depressants such as alcohol , opioids , anesthetic agents , narcotics , phenothiazines , tranquilizers or sedative hypnotics .
RYZOLT ™ increases the risk of CNS and respiratory depression in these patients .
Potential of Other Drugs to Affect Tramadol In vitro drug interaction studies in human liver microsomes indicate that concomitant administration with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as fluoxetine , paroxetine , and amitriptyline could result in some inhibition of the metabolism of tramadol .
Tramadol is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole and erythromycin , or inducers , such as rifampin and St . John ’ s Wort , with RYZOLT ™ may affect the metabolism of tramadol leading to altered tramadol exposure .
Potential for Tramadol to Affect Other Drugs In vitro studies indicate that tramadol is unlikely to inhibit the CYP3A4 - mediated metabolism of other drugs when administered concomitantly at therapeutic doses .
Tramadol is a mild inducer of selected drug metabolism pathways measured in animals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of FertilityA slight , but statistically significant increase in two common murine tumors , pulmonary and hepatic , was observed in a mouse carcinogenicity study , particularly in aged mice .
Mice were dosed orally up to 30 mg / kg ( 90 mg / m2 or 0 . 5 times the maximum daily human dosage of 185 mg / m2 ) for approximately two years , although the study was not done with the Maximum Tolerated Dose .
This finding is not believed to suggest risk in humans .
No such finding occurred in a rat carcinogenicity study ( dosing orally up to 30 mg / kg - 180 mg / m2 equal to the maximum daily human dosage of tramadol ) .
Tramadol was not mutagenic in the following assays : Ames Salmonella microsomal activation test , CHO / HPRT mammalian cell assay , mouse lymphoma assay ( in the absence of metabolic activation ) , dominant lethal mutation tests in mice , chromosome aberration test in Chinese hamsters , and bone marrow micronucleus tests in mice and Chinese hamsters .
Positive mutagenic results occurred in the presence of metabolic activation in the mouse lymphoma assay and micronucleus test in rats .
Relevance of the finding in humans is unknown .
No effects on fertility were observed for tramadol at oral dose levels up to 50 mg / kg ( 300 mg / m2 ) in male rats and 75 mg / kg ( 450 mg / m2 ) in female rats .
These dosages are 1 . 6 and 2 . 4 times the maximum daily human dosage of 185 mg / m2 , respectively .
PregnancyTeratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Tramadol has been shown to be embryotoxic and fetotoxic in mice , ( 120 mg / kg or 360 mg / m2 ) , rats ( ≥ 25 mg / kg or 150 mg / m2 ) and rabbits ( ≥ 75 mg / kg or 900 mg / m2 ) at maternally toxic dosages , but was not teratogenic at these dose levels .
These dosages on an mg / m2 basis are 1 . 9 , 0 . 8 and 4 . 9 times the maximum daily human dosage ( 185 mg / m2 ) for mouse , rat and rabbit , respectively .
No drug related teratogenic effects were observed in progeny of mice ( up to 140 mg / kg or 420 mg / m2 ) , rats ( up to 80 mg / kg or 480 mg / m2 ) or rabbits ( up to 300 mg / kg or 3600 mg / m2 ) treated with tramadol by various routes .
Embryo and fetal toxicity consisted primarily of decreased fetal weights , skeletal ossification and increased supernumerary ribs in maternally toxic dose levels .
Transient delays in developmental or behavioral parameters were also seen in pups from rat dams allowed to deliver .
Embryo and fetal lethality were reported only in one rabbit study at 300 mg / kg ( 3600 mg / m2 ) , a dose that would cause extreme maternal toxicity in the rabbit .
The dosages listed for mouse , rat and rabbit are 2 . 2 , 2 . 6 and 19 . 4 times the maximum daily human dosage ( 185 mg / m2 ) , respectively .
Non - teratogenic EffectsTramadol was evaluated in peri - and post - natal studies in rats .
Progeny of dams receiving oral ( gavage ) dose levels of 50 mg / kg ( 300 mg / m2 or 1 . 6 times the maximum daily human RYZOLT dosage ) or greater had decreased weights , and pup survival was decreased early in lactation at 80 mg / kg ( 480 mg / m2 or 2 . 6 times the maximum daily human dose ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
RYZOLT ™ should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Neonatal seizures , neonatal withdrawal syndrome , fetal death and stillbirth have been reported during post - marketing surveillance of tramadol immediate - release products .
Labor and DeliveryRYZOLT ™ should not be used in pregnant women prior to or during labor unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks .
Safe use in pregnancy has not been established .
Chronic use during pregnancy may lead to physical dependence and post - partum withdrawal symptoms in the newborn ( See DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION ) .
Tramadol has been shown to cross the placenta .
The mean ratio of serum tramadol in the umbilical veins compared to maternal veins was 0 . 83 for 40 women given tramadol during labor .
The effect of RYZOLT ™ , if any , on the later growth , development and functional maturation of the child is unknown .
Nursing MotherRYZOLT ™ is not recommended for obstetrical preoperative medication or for post - delivery analgesia in nursing mothers because its safety in infants and newborns has not been studied .
Following a single IV 100 mg dose of tramadol , the cumulative excretion in breast milk within 16 hours postdose was 100 µg of tramadol ( 0 . 1 % of the maternal dose ) and 27 µg of M1 .
Pediatric UseThe safety and efficacy of RYZOLT ™ in patients under 16 years of age has not been established .
The use of RYZOLT ™ in the pediatric population is not recommended .
Geriatric UseIn general , caution should be used when selecting the dose for an elderly patient .
Usually , dose administration should start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In 12 - week clinical trials , RYZOLT ™ was administered to 534 patients aged 65 years and older .
Of those , 68 patients were 75 years of age and older .
Comparable incidence rates of patients experiencing adverse events were observed for patients older than 65 years of age compared with younger patients ( less than 65 years of age ) , except constipation for which the incidence was higher in older patients .
RYZOLT ™ should be used with caution in patients older than 75 years of age ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Ryzolt Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RYZOLT 100 MG LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] RYZOLT 300 MG LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
