Active Ingredients : Ensulizole , 1 . 8 % , Octinoxate , 7 . 5 % CVS / pharmacy Advanced Deep - Set Wrinkle Day Therapy What age related skin issues does our advanced formula address ?
Deep - set wrinkles commonly appear on the forehead , brow and in the form of frown lines and crow ' s feet .
With daily use , our deep wrinkle lotion evens out the surface of wrinkles and decreases their appearance .
Our Pro - Retinol formula also provides the advanced skin protection of SPF 15 sunscreen to help protect the skin from UV damage .
Multi - Action Benefits Smooths Skin : - Pro - Retinol Vitamin A firms and tones skin , improving elasticity .
- Encapsulated technology provides continuous benefits in fighting the signs of aging - Diminishes appearance of deep - set wrinkles .
Hydrates and Protects Dry Skin : - Essential nutrients replenish moisture , maintaining skin ' s natural balance and enhancing softness - SPF 15 helps protect the skin Keep out of reach of children .
Recomended regimen Step 1 Cleanse skin thoroughly Step 2 Apply CVS / pharmacy Day and Night Eye Cream Step 3 AM : Follow - up with CVS / pharmacy Deep - Set Wrinkle Day Treatment .
PM : CVS / pharmacy Deep - Set Wrinkle Night Cream .
How and When to Use Every morning after thoroughly cleansing skin , apply alone or under makeup .
Gently smooth onto face and neck until completely absorbed .
To use as a sunscreen apply to face prior to sun exposure Warnings For external use only , not to be swallowed .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rash appear .
If irritation or rash persists , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
Recommended Application Step 1 Cleanse skin thoroughly Step 2 Apply CVS / Pharmacy Day and NIght Cream Step 3 AM : Follow - up with CVS ? Pharmacy Advanced Anti - Wrinkle and Firming Day Cream PM : Follow - up with CVS / Pharmacy Advanced Anti - Wrinkle and Firming Night Cream How and When to Use Every day prior to sun exposure , gently smooth onto face and neck until completely absorbed .
Use in the morning ; alone or under makeup .
To use as a sunscreen , apply to face prior to sun exposure .
Inactive Ingredients Water , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Fragrance , Cetyl Alcohol , PolyGlyceryl - 10 Pentastearate , Behenyl Alcohol , Sodium Stearoyl Lactylate , Retinyl Palmitate , Butylene Glycol , Titanium Dioxide , Alumina , Simethicone , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Propylene Glycol , Triethanolamine , Tocopheryl Acetate , Cetearyl Alcohol , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Panthenol , Xanthan Gum , Diazolidinyl Urea , Cetearyl Glocoside , Chamomila Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Dimethicone , Disodium EDTA , Propylparaben , Glycerin , Methylparaben , Red 33 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
