1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MYXREDLIN is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
MYXREDLIN is a short - acting human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Inspect MYXREDLIN visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use MYXREDLIN if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Administer MYXREDLIN intravenously ONLY under medical supervision with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Do not add supplementary medication or additives .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Do not use in series connections .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Do not shake or freeze .
Discard unused portion .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Individualize dose based on metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results , and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in nutrition , renal , or hepatic function or during acute illness .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • • Inspect MYXREDLIN visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use MYXREDLIN if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• • Administer MYXREDLIN intravenously ONLY under medical supervision with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Do not add supplementary medication or additives .
• • Do not use in series connections .
• • Do not shake .
Do not freeze .
Discard any unused portion .
2 . 2 Dosage Information • • Individualize and adjust the dosage of MYXREDLIN based on the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results , and glycemic control goal .
• • Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in nutrition , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Adjustment due to Drug Interactions • • Dosage adjustment may be needed when MYXREDLIN is used concomitantly with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 100 units insulin human in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ( 1 unit per mL ) as a clear , colorless solution in a single - dose container .
Injection : 100 units insulin human in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ( 1 unit / mL ) in a single - dose container ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS MYXREDLIN is contraindicated : • • During episodes of hypoglycemia • • In patients with hypersensitivity to insulin human or any of the excipients in MYXREDLIN • • During episodes of hypoglycemia ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to insulin human or any of the excipients in MYXREDLIN ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hyper - or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Carry out under close medical supervision and increase frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Factors which may increase the risk include changes in nutrition and co - administered medication and patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended in patients at increased risk .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur .
Discontinue MYXREDLIN , monitor , and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in insulin strength , manufacturer , type , or method of administration may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
These changes should be made cautiously and under close medical supervision and the frequency of blood glucose monitoring should be increased .
5 . 2 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction of all insulins , including MYXREDLIN .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may lead to unconsciousness , may be life threatening or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each individual and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia Factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in nutrition and co - administered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with MYXREDLIN .
Generalized allergy to insulin may manifest as a whole body rash ( including pruritus ) , dyspnea , wheezing , hypotension , tachycardia , or diaphoresis .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue MYXREDLIN ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve .
MYXREDLIN is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to insulin human or any of the excipients in MYXREDLIN [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypokalemia All insulins , including MYXREDLIN , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels and treat if indicated .
5 . 5 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including MYXREDLIN , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Adverse Reactions from Clinical Studies or Postmarketing Reports The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during clinical studies or from postmarketing reports with use of insulin human injection .
Because some of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions associated with insulin initiation and glucose control intensification Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
Over the long - term , improved glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
Hypersensitivity reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis .
Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction with MYXREDLIN .
Hypokalemia MYXREDLIN can cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Peripheral edema Insulins , including MYXREDLIN , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Weight gain Weight gain can occur with insulin therapies , including MYXREDLIN , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria .
Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic peptides , insulin administration may cause anti - insulin antibodies to form .
Increases in titers of anti - insulin antibodies that react with human insulin have been observed in patients treated with subcutaneous insulin human injection .
Adverse reactions observed with insulin human injection include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , weight gain and edema ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Baxter Healthcare at 1 - 866 - 888 - 2472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with MYXREDLINDrugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when MYXREDLIN is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of MYXREDLIN Drugs : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when MYXREDLIN is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of MYXREDLIN Drugs : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when MYXREDLIN is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine .
Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when MYXREDLIN is co - administered with these drugs .
• • Drugs that may increase the risk of hypoglycemia : antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
( 7 ) • • Drugs that may decrease the blood glucose lowering effect : atypical antipsychotics , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
( 7 ) • • Drugs that may increase or decrease the blood glucose lowering effect : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and pentamidine .
( 7 ) • • Drugs that may blunt the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia : beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies were not performed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , preeclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from retrospective studies , open - label , randomized , parallel studies and meta - analyses have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
All available studies have methodological limitations including lack of blinding , unclear methods of randomization , and small sample size .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Available data from published literature suggest that exogenous human insulin products , including insulin human injection , are transferred into human milk .
There are no adverse reactions reported in the breastfed infants in the literature .
There are no data on the effects of exogenous human insulin products , including MYXREDLIN , on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for MYXREDLIN and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from MYXREDLIN or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use MYXREDLIN is indicated to improve glycemic control in pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus .
The dosage of MYXREDLIN must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and frequent monitoring of blood glucose to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of insulin human injection has not been studied .
Elderly patients using MYXREDLIN , may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia due to co - morbid disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of MYXREDLIN has not been studied .
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent MYXREDLIN dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of MYXREDLIN has not been studied .
Patients with hepatic impairment are at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent MYXREDLIN dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment can be treated with intramuscular or subcutaneous glucagon or intravenous glucose .
Sustained monitoring may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] 11 DESCRIPTION Insulin human is a short - acting human insulin .
It is a polypeptide hormone and is produced by recombinant DNA technology , utilizing Pichia pastoris ( a yeast ) as the production organism .
Insulin human is regular human insulin and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 and a molecular weight of 5808 .
Figure 1 : Structural formula of Insulin Human [ MULTIMEDIA ] MYXREDLIN ( insulin human ) in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection for intravenous use is a sterile , preservative - free , nonpyrogenic , clear , aqueous , and colorless solution supplied in a 100 mL GALAXY single - dose container .
MYXREDLIN contains 100 units of insulin human in 100 milliliters of 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection .
Each milliliter of solution contains 1 unit Insulin Human , USP ; 0 . 412 mg Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Anhydrous , USP ; 0 . 29 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate Monohydrate , USP ; 9 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ; and Water for Injection , USP .
The pH range is 6 . 5 - 7 . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary activity of insulin , including MYXREDLIN is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulins lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake , especially by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulin inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhances protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics MYXREDLIN is a short - acting insulin .
The time course of insulin action ( i . e . , glucose lowering ) may vary considerably in different individuals , within the same individual , and different doses .
In a double - blind , randomized , crossover , euglycemic glucose clamp study described below , the average onset of action , defined as start of intravenous glucose infusion during the clamp , was approximately 21 minutes after starting of the intravenous infusion administration .
The glucose infusion rate gradually increased to a maximum response of 13 . 7 mg / kg / min after 5 hours of human insulin infusion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a double - blind , randomized , crossover , euglycemic glucose clamp study , fifty eight healthy male subjects between 19 and 50 years of age received an intravenous infusion of either MYXREDLIN or another human insulin at 1 milliUnit / kg / min for 6 hours ( 0 . 36 units / kg total dose ) .
On average , insulin concentrations of about 300 pM were attained approximately from 1 . 5 hours to 6 hours after starting intravenous infusion of MYXREDLIN , followed by a return to the baseline level 1 . 5 hours after stopping intravenous infusion .
Metabolism and Elimination The mean terminal half - life from concentration data after stopping the intravenous infusion was estimated to be 23 . 4 minutes in healthy volunteers .
Specific Population The effects of gender , age , obesity , renal and hepatic impairment on the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of insulin human injection have not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of insulin human injection .
Human insulin is not mutagenic in the following in vitro tests : The chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , the micronucleus assay in mouse polychromatic erythrocytes , and the mutation frequency assay in Chinese hamster cells .
Standard reproduction and teratology studies in animals , including fertility assessments have not been conducted with insulin human injection .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied MYXREDLIN ( insulin human ) in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection contains 100 units / 100 mL ( 1 unit / mL ) of insulin human in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride and is a clear , colorless solution available as : • 100 mL single - dose GALAXY container , package of 12 , NDC 0338 - 0126 - 12 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store MYXREDLIN in the refrigerator ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F [ 2 ° C to 8 ° C ] ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not use after the expiration date printed on the carton and container label .
If needed , MYXREDLIN may be removed from the original carton and stored at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for up to 30 days .
Once stored at room temperature , do not place back in the refrigerator .
Discard MYXREDLIN after 30 days if stored at room temperature .
Do not freeze and do not use MYXREDLIN if it has been frozen .
Do not shake .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypoglycemia Inform patients that hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction with insulin .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with insulin human injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA U . S . License Number 0140 Baxter , Galaxy and Myxredlin are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
07 - 19 - 01 - 720 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0338 - 0126 - 12 MYXREDLIN Insulin Human in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 100 units per 100 mL ( 1 unit / mL ) 100 mL Single - Dose GALAXY container Discard unused portion For Intravenous Infusion Only ( REGULAR ) Insulin Human Sterile Nonpyrogenic Cautions : Do not add supplemental medication or additives .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks and solution clarity .
Each mL contains : 1 unit Insulin Human , USP ; 0 . 412 mg Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Anhydrous , USP ; 0 . 29 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate Monohydrate , USP ; 9 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ; and Water for Injection , USP .
Dosage : See prescribing information .
Rx only Store refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do Not Shake .
Do Not Freeze .
If needed , may store at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) up to 30 days .
Discard after 30 days if stored at room temperature .
Baxter logo Baxter , Galaxy and Myxredlin are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA U . S . License no . 0140 Code 2G3322 PL 2501 Plastic Product of USA 07 - 34 - 00 - 0510 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0338 - 0126 - 12 Code 2G3322 MYXREDLIN Insulin Human in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 100 units per 100 mL ( 1 unit / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Only ( REGULAR ) Insulin Human USE CARTON TO PROTECT CONTENTS FROM LIGHT WHILE REFRIGERATED Rx Only 1 Single - Dose Galaxy container Discard unused portion Baxter Logo For Intravenous Infusion Only MYXREDLIN Insulin Human in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection CONTAINS INSULIN HUMAN 100 units per 100 mL ( 1 unit / mL ) NDC 0338 - 0126 - 12 MYXREDLIN Insulin Human in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( 1 unit / mL ) UNVARNISHED AREA FOR ON - LINE PRINTING OF LOT AND EXP UPC - A Bar Code Placement Sterile , Nonpyrogenic Each mL contains : 1 unit Insulin Human , USP ; 0 . 412 mg Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Anhydrous , USP ; 0 . 29 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate Monohydrate , USP ; 9 mg Sodium Chloride , USP ; and Water for Injection , USP .
No preservative .
Dosage : For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See prescribing information .
Caution : Do not add supplemental medication or additives .
Rx only Store refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do Not Shake .
Do Not Freeze .
If needed , may store MYXREDLIN at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) up to 30 days .
Once stored at room temperature , do not place back in the refrigerator .
Discard after 30 days if stored at room temperature .
Discard 30 days after storing at room temperature .
Discard After : ( Month ) ( Day ) ( Year ) ( to be completed by dispensing pharmacist ) Baxter , Galaxy and Myxredlin are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA U . S . License no . 0140 Product of USA 07 - 01 - 00 - 0251 [ MULTIMEDIA ] MYXREDLIN Insulin Human in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 100 units per 100 mL ( 1 unit / mL ) EXP : JUN 21 LOT # : NC125840 Bar Code ( 01 ) 50803380126120 ( 17 ) 210630 ( 21 ) 100000002582 ( 10 ) NC125840 Contains : 12 x 100 mL Single - Dose GALAXY Containers NDC 0338 - 0126 - 12 Code 2G3322 Store refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) Do Not Shake .
Do Not Freeze .
If needed , may store at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) up to 30 days .
Once stored at room temperature , do not place back in the refrigerator .
Discard after 30 days if stored at room temperature .
Bar Code GTIN50303380126120 SERIAL100000002582 EXP210630 LOTNC125840 Rx Only Baxter Logo Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA 07 - 06 - 00 - 0789 G [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
