Active Ingredients Menthol 3 . 5 % Purpose External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions .
Do not use ■ on irritated or damaged skin ■ on wounds ■ if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have ■ any concerns about using this product When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes ■ do not bandage tightly ■ do not apply heat to the area in form of heating pads , hot water bottles , or lamps ( doing so increases the risk of serious burns ) ■ avoid placing on extremely hairy areas of skin to avoid irritation upon removing the patch Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ excessive irritation of the skin develops ■ nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs ■ you feel actual pain or experience blistering or burning after application ( it is normal to feel a warming or cooling sensation ) ■ when using for pain of arthritis : ■ pain persists for more than 10 days ■ redness is present ■ in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ adults and children 2 years of age and older : remove the protective film from the plaster .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
■ children under 2 years of age : consult your physician .
Other information ■ keep plasters tightly closed in the zip - lock pouch ■ store at 15 to 30 C ( 59 to 86 F ) in a dry place away from sunlight Inactive ingredientsachyranthes root , angelica sinensis root , basil oil , cassia bark , Chinese clematis root and rhizome , Chinese peony root with bark , cinnamon oil , dragon ’ s blood resin , fragrant angelica root , frankincense oleo - gum - resin , kadsura pepper stem , knoxia root , lanolin , lesser galangal rhizome , lindera root , mineral oil , myrrh oleo - gum - resin , notopterygium rhizome and root , paprika , periplocae cortex , persicae semen , petrolatum , pubescent angelica root , rosin , rubber , safflower , sappanwood heartwood , sichuan teasel root , styrene - isoprene , and zinc oxide on a cotton pad and covered with a protective paper film .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm ■ you may also report serious side effects to this phone number Zhuifeng Gao Pain Relieving Plaster NDC 68007 - 403 - 01 10 Patches Each Patch 2 . 75 in x 4 in ( 7 cm x 10 cm ) 5 Patches per Pouch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
