DESCRIPTION Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w is a topical scabicidal agent for the treatment of infestation with Sarcoptesscabiei ( scabies ) .
It is available in an off - white , vanishing cream base .
Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w is for topical use only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name - The permethrin used is an approximate 1 : 3 mixture of the cis and trans isomers of the pyrethroid 3 - ( 2 , 2 - dichloroethenyl ) - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid , ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) methyl ester .
Permethrin has a molecular formula of C 21 H 20 Cl 2 O 3 and a molecular weight of 391 . 29 .
It is a yellow to light orange - brown , low melting solid or viscous liquid .
Active Ingredient - Each gram contains permethrin 50 mg ( 5 % ) .
Inactive Ingredients - Carbomer homopolymer type B , medium - chain triglycerides , glycerin , mono - and diglycerides , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohols , mineral oil , polyoxyethylene ( 20 ) cetyl ethers , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
Formaldehyde 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) is added as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Permethrin , a pyrethroid , is active against a broad range of pests including lice , ticks , fleas , mites , and other arthropods .
It acts on the nerve cell membrane to disrupt the sodium channel current by which the polarization of the membrane is regulated .
Delayed repolarization and paralysis of the pests are the consequences of this disturbance .
Permethrin is rapidly metabolized by ester hydrolysis to inactive metabolites which are excreted primarily in the urine .
Although the amount of permethrin absorbed after a single application of the 5 % cream has not been determined precisely , data from studies with 14 C - labeled permethrin and absorption studies of the cream applied to patients with moderate to severe scabies indicate it is 2 % or less of the amount applied .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w is indicated for the treatment of infestation with Sarcoptesscabiei ( scabies ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components , to any synthetic pyrethroid or pyrethrin .
WARNINGS If hypersensitivity to Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General Scabies infestation is often accompanied by pruritus , edema , and erythema .
Treatment with Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w may temporarily exacerbate these conditions .
Information for Patients Patients with scabies should be advised that itching , mild burning and / or stinging may occur after application of Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w .
In clinical trials , approximately 75 % of patients treated with Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w who continued to manifest pruritus at 2 weeks had cessation by 4 weeks .
If irritation persists , they should consult their physician .
Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w may be very mildly irritating to the eyes .
Patients should be advised to avoid contact with eyes during application and to flush with water immediately if Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w gets in the eyes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Six carcinogenicity bioassays were evaluated with permethrin , three each in rats and mice .
No tumorigenicity was seen in the rat studies .
However , species - specific increases in pulmonary adenomas , a common benign tumor of mice of high spontaneous background incidence , were seen in the three mouse studies .
In one of these studies there was an increased incidence of pulmonary alveolar - cell carcinomas and benign liver adenomas only in female mice when permethrin was given in their food at a concentration of 5000 ppm .
Mutagenicity assays , which give useful correlative data for interpreting results from carcinogenicity bioassays in rodents , were negative .
Permethrin showed no evidence of mutagenic potential in a battery of in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicity studies .
Permethrin did not have any adverse effect on reproductive function at a dose of 180 mg / kg / day orally in a three - generation rat study .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits ( 200 to 400 mg / kg / day orally ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to permethrin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the evidence for tumorigenic potential of permethrin in animal studies , consideration should be given to discontinuing nursing temporarily or withholding the drug while the mother is nursing .
Pediatric Use Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w is safe and effective in pediatric patients two months of age and older .
Safety and effectiveness in infants less than two months of age have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w did not identify sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to allow a definitive statement regarding whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney .
However , since topical permethrin is metabolized in the liver and excreted in the urine as inactive metabolites , there does not appear to be an increased risk of toxic reactions in patients with impaired renal function when used as labeled .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , generally mild and transient burning and stinging followed application with Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w in 10 % of patients and was associated with the severity of infestation .
Pruritus was reported in 7 % of patients at various times post - application .
Erythema , numbness , tingling , and rash were reported in 1 to 2 % or less of patients ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
Other adverse events reported since marketing Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w include : headache , fever , dizziness , abdominal pain , diarrhea and nausea and / or vomiting .
Although extremely uncommon and not expected when used as directed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , rare occurrences of seizure have been reported .
None have been medically confirmed as associated with Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w treatment .
OVERDOSAGE No instance of accidental ingestion of Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w has been reported .
If ingested , gastric lavage and general supportive measures should be employed .
Excessive topical use ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) may result in increased irritation and erythema .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children - Thoroughly massage Permethrin Cream 5 % w / w into the skin from the head to the soles of the feet .
Scabies rarely infests the scalp of adults , although the hairline , neck , temple , and forehead may be infested in infants and geriatric patients .
Usually 30 grams is sufficient for an average adult .
The cream should be removed by washing ( shower or bath ) after 8 to 14 hours .
Infants should be treated on the scalp , temple , and forehead .
ONE APPLICATION IS GENERALLY CURATIVE .
Patients may experience persistent pruritus after treatment .
This is rarely a sign of treatment failure and is not an indication for retreatment .
Demonstrable living mites after 14 days indicate that retreatment is necessary .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 5888 NDC : 50090 - 5888 - 0 60 g in a TUBE / 1 in a CARTON PERMETHRIN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
