DESCRIPTION : Sodium sulfacetamide is C 8 H 9 N 2 NaO 3 S · H 2 O with molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically , it is Acetamide N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide , USP in a formulation containing cocamidopropyl betaine , disodium EDTA , PEG - 150 pentaerythrityl tetrastearate and PEG 6 caprylic / capric glycerides , glyceryl monostearate , methyl paraben , PEG - 60 almond triglyceride , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium thiosulfate .
Sodium Sulfacetamide is an odorless , white , crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , while practically insoluble in benzene , in chloroform and in ether .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth , by its competition with para - aminobenzoic acid .
There is no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic absorption of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash when applied to the skin or scalp .
However , significant absorption of sodium sulfacetamide through the skin has been reported .
The following in vitro data is available but the clinical significance is not known .
Organisms which show susceptibility to sodium sulfacetamide are : Streptococci , Staphylococci , E . coli , Klebsiella pneumonia , Pseudomonas pyocyanea , Salmonella species , Proteus vulgaris , Nocardia and Actinomyces .
INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses : seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca ( dandruff ) .
It is also indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or any other component of this product .
WARNINGS : Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitivie individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : For external use only .
General - Nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi , may proliferate with the use of this preparation .
Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration , and cross hypersensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
If Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash produces signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions , discontinue use of the preparation .
Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large , infected , abraded , denuded , or severely burned areas .
Under these circumstances , potentially any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could occur and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed .
Information for patients - Patients should discontinue use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash if the condition worsens , or is a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis , fever or sores in the mouth develop .
Drug Interactions : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is incompatible with silver preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Chromosomal nondisjunction in the yeast , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , following application of sodium sulfacetamide has been reported .
The significance of this finding to the topical use of sodium sulfacetamide in the human is not known .
PREGNANCY : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash .
It is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon .
The following adverse reactions , reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide , are noteworthy : instances of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus ; in one case a fatal outcome was reported .
( See warnings . )
OVERDOSAGE : The oral LD 50 of sulfacetamide in mice is 16 . 5 g / kg .
In the event of overdosage , emergency treatment should be started immediately .
Manifestations : Overdosage may cause nausea and vomiting .
Large oral overdosage may cause hematuria , crystalluria and renal shutdown due to the precipitation of sulfa crystals in the renal tubules and the urinary tract .
For treatment , contact your local Poison Control Center .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca - Wash affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described for eight to ten days .
If skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently .
Regular shampooing following Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is not necessary , but the hair should be shampooed at least once a week .
As the condition subsides , the interval between applications may be lengthened .
Applications once or twice weekly or every other week may prevent recurrence .
Should the condition recur after stopping therapy , the application of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash should be reinstated as at the beginning of treatment .
Secondary Cutaneuos Bacterial Infections - Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described for eight to ten days .
if skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is available in 16 fluid ounce bottles , NDC 42192 - 129 - 16 .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Note : Store upright .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The wash may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Occasionally , a slight yellowish discoloration may occur when an excessive amount of the wash is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 1010v2 PACKAGE LABEL - 10 % Wash NDC 42192 - 129 - 16 Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash Rx Only For External Use Only 16 fl .
oz .
( 480 mL ) Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
