Rx Only DESCRIPTION A white powder for reconstitution .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF Powder for Oral Solution is a synthetic polyglycol having an average molecular weight of 3350 .
The actual molecular weight is not less than 90 . 0 percent and not greater than 110 . 0 percent of the nominal value .
The chemical formula is HO ( C2H4O ) nH in which n represents the average number of oxyethylene groups .
Below 55 ° C , it is a free flowing white powder freely soluble in water .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF is an osmotic agent for the treatment of constipation .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacology Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF is an osmotic agent which causes water to be retained with the stool .
Essentially , complete recovery of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF was shown in normal subjects without constipation .
Attempts at recovery of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF in constipated patients resulted in incomplete and highly variable recovery .
In vitro study showed indirectly that Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF was not fermented into hydrogen or methane by the colonic microflora in human feces .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF appears to have no effect on the active absorption or secretion of glucose or electrolytes .
There is no evidence of tachyphylaxis .
CLINICAL TRIALS In one study , patients with less than 3 bowel movements per week were randomized to Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF , 17 grams , or placebo for 14 days .
An increase in bowel movement frequency was observed for both treatment groups during the first week of treatment .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF was statistically superior to placebo during the second week of treatment .
In another study , patients with 3 bowel movements or less per week and / or less than 300 grams of stool per week were randomized to 2 dose levels of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF or placebo for 10 days each .
Success was defined by an increase in both bowel movement frequency and daily stool weight .
For both parameters , superiority of the 17 gram dose of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF over placebo was demonstrated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of occasional constipation .
This product should be used for 2 weeks or less or as directed by a physician .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected bowel obstruction and patients known to be allergic to polyethylene glycol .
WARNINGS Patients with symptoms suggestive of bowel obstruction ( nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or distention ) should be evaluated to rule out this condition before initiating Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF therapy .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients presenting with complaints of constipation should have a thorough medical history and physical examination to detect associated metabolic , endocrine and neurogenic conditions , and medications .
A diagnostic evaluation should include a structural examination of the colon .
Patients should be educated about good defecatory and eating habits ( such as high fiber diets ) and lifestyle changes ( adequate dietary fiber and fluid intake , regular exercise ) which may produce more regular bowel habits .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF should be administered after being dissolved in approximately 4 - 8 ounces of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Information for Patients Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF softens the stool and increases the frequency of bowel movements by retaining water in the stool .
It should always be taken by mouth after being dissolved in 4 - 8 ounces of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Should unusual cramps , bloating , or diarrhea occur , consult your physician .
Two to 4 days may be required to produce a bowel movement .
This product should be used for 2 weeks or less or as directed by a physician .
Prolonged , frequent or excessive use of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF may result in electrolyte imbalance and dependence on laxatives .
Laboratory Tests No clinically significant effects on laboratory tests have been demonstrated .
Drug Interactions No specific drug interactions have been demonstrated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies , genetic toxicity studies and reproductive toxicity studies in animals have not been performed with Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproductive studies have not been performed with Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF .
It is also not known whether Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman , or can affect reproductive capacity .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF should only be administered to a pregnant woman if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established .
Geriatric Use There is no evidence for special considerations when Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF is administered to elderly patients .
In geriatric nursing home patients , a higher incidence of diarrhea occurred at the recommended 17 gram dose .
If diarrhea occurs , Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF should be discontinued .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea , abdominal bloating , cramping and flatulence may occur .
High doses may produce diarrhea and excessive stool frequency , particularly in elderly nursing home patients .
Patients taking other medications containing polyethylene glycol have occasionally developed urticaria suggestive of an allergic reaction .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of accidental overdosage .
In the event of overdosage , diarrhea would be the expected major event .
If an overdose of drug occurred without concomitant ingestion of fluid , dehydration due to diarrhea may result .
Medication should be terminated and free water administered .
The oral LD50 is > 50 gm / kg in mice , rats and rabbits .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose is 17 grams ( about 1 heaping tablespoonful ) of powder per day ( or as directed by physician ) in 4 - 8 ounces of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Each bottle of Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF is supplied with a dosing cap marked to contain 17 grams of laxative powder when filled to the indicated line .
Two to 4 days ( 48 to 96 hours ) may be required to produce a bowel movement .
HOW SUPPLIED In powdered form , for oral administration after dissolution in water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF Powder for Oral Solution is available in two package sizes : a 16 oz .
container of 255 grams of laxative powder ( NDC 54868 - 5160 - 1 ) and a 24 oz .
container of 527 grams of laxative powder ( NDC 54868 - 5160 - 0 ) .
The dosing cap supplied with each bottle is marked with a measuring line and may be used to measure a single Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF dose of 17 grams ( about 1 heaping tablespoonful ) .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 , USA Rev . 1 E 08 / 11 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 DIRECTIONS • 1 .
NOTE : This product is supplied with a dosing cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line .
• 2 .
Daily dose is 17 grams per day or as directed by physician .
• 3 .
Pour 17 grams ( about 1 heaping tablespoonful ) of powder into the dosing cap .
• 4 .
Stir the powder in a cup ( 4 – 8 oz . )
of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea until completely dissolved .
• 5 .
Drink the solution .
• 6 .
Treatment for 2 to 4 days may be required to produce a bowel movement .
Keep this and other drugs out of reach of children .
Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 , USA Rev . 1 E 08 / 11 PATIENT INFORMATION Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF Powder for Oral Solution is a prescription only laxative which has been prescribed by your physician to treat constipation .
This product should only be used by the person for whom it was prescribed .
How to take The dose is 17 grams each day or as directed by physician .
It should always be taken by mouth .
Measure the dose using the dosing cap ( or use one heaping tablespoonful of powder ) , stir and dissolve in a glass ( 4 - 8 oz . )
of water , juice , soda , coffee , or tea .
Taking more than the prescribed dose may cause loss of fluid due to severe diarrhea .
How will it work Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF softens the stool and increases the frequency of bowel movements by retaining water in the stool .
Your first bowel movement will usually happen in two to four days , although results may vary for individual patients .
How long should I take it Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF achieves its best results when used between one and two weeks .
You may discontinue taking the drug after you have had several satisfactory bowel movements .
Should unusual cramps , bloating , or diarrhea occur , consult your physician .
Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF ® is intended for up to a two week course of therapy .
You should not use for a longer time unless directed by your physician .
Next Steps After successfully completing the Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF therapy ( usually between one and two weeks ) , please discuss with your physician lifestyle changes which may produce more regular bowel habits ( adequate dietary and fluid intake , regular exercise ) .
Who Should NOT take Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF should not be used by children .
It should not be used by pregnant women unless prescribed by a physician .
Side Effects / Drug Reactions Occasionally , Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF may cause nausea , stomach fullness , cramping , diarrhea and / or gas .
Do not take if you have symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or distention , which may be due to bowel obstruction .
On rare occasions , hives and skin rashes have been reported which are suggestive of an allergic reaction .
If you get an allergic reaction , you should discontinue the medication and call your physician .
If you are allergic to polyethylene glycol , do not use this drug product .
Distributed by : Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 255 g Bottle Label NDC 54868 - 5160 - 1 PRESCRIPTION LAXATIVE Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , NF Powder for Oral Solution This bottle contains 255 grams of polyethylene glycol 3350 , NF powder Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
