Rx Only DESCRIPTION Econazole nitrate cream contains the antifungal agent , econazole nitrate USP 1 % , in a water - miscible base consisting of apricot kernel oil / PEG - 6 , benzoic acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , mineral oil , PEG - 6 - 32 stearate / glycol stearate and purified water .
The white to off - white soft cream is for topical use only .
Chemically , econazole nitrate is 1 - [ 2 - { ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) methoxy } - 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] - 1 H - imidazole mononitrate .
Its structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After topical application to the skin of normal subjects , systemic absorption of econazole nitrate is extremely low .
Although most of the applied drug remains on the skin surface , drug concentrations were found in the stratum corneum which , by far , exceeded the minimum inhibitory concentration for dermatophytes .
Inhibitory concentrations were achieved in the epidermis and as deep as the middle region of the dermis .
Less than 1 % of the applied dose was recovered in the urine and feces .
Microbiology Econazole nitrate has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Dermatophytes Yeasts Epidermophyton floccosum Candida albicans Microsporum audouini Malassezia furfur Microsporum canis Microsporum gypseum Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton tonsurans Econazole nitrate exhibits broad - spectrum antifungal activity against the following organisms in vitro , but the clinical significance of these data is unknown .
Dermatophytes Yeasts Trichophyton verrucosum Candida guillermondii Candida parapsilosis Candida tropicalis INDICATIONS AND USAGE Econazole nitrate cream is indicated for topical application in the treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , Microsporum gypseum , and Epidermophyton floccosum , in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis , and in the treatment of tinea versicolor .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Econazole nitrate cream is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS Econazole nitrate cream is not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Avoid introduction of econazole nitrate cream into the eyes .
Carcinogenicity Studies Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Fertility ( Reproduction ) Oral administration of econazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
Intravaginal administration in humans has not shown prolonged gestation or other adverse reproductive effects attributable to econazole nitrate therapy .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Econazole nitrate has not been shown to be teratogenic when administered orally to mice , rabbits or rats .
Fetotoxic or embryotoxic effects were observed in Segment I oral studies with rats receiving 10 to 40 times the human dermal dose .
Similar effects were observed in Segment II or Segment III studies with mice , rabbits and / or rats receiving oral doses 80 or 40 times the human dermal dose .
Econazole nitrate should be used in the first trimester of pregnancy only when the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
The drug should be used during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether econazole nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Following oral administration of econazole nitrate to lactating rats , econazole and / or metabolites were excreted in milk and were found in nursing pups .
Also , in lactating rats receiving large oral doses ( 40 or 80 times the human dermal dose ) , there was a reduction in post partum viability of pups and survival to weaning ; however , at these high doses , maternal toxicity was present and may have been a contributing factor .
Caution should be exercised when econazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials , approximately 3 % of patients treated with econazole nitrate 1 % cream reported side effects thought possibly to be due to the drug , consisting mainly of burning , itching , stinging and erythema .
One case of pruritic rash has also been reported .
OVERDOSE Overdosage of econazole nitrate in humans has not been reported to date .
In mice , rats , guinea pigs and dogs , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 462 , 668 , 272 , and > 160 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sufficient econazole nitrate cream should be applied to cover affected areas once daily in patients with tinea pedis , tinea cruris , tinea corporis , and tinea versicolor , and twice daily ( morning and evening ) in patients with cutaneous candidiasis .
Early relief of symptoms is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks and tinea pedis for one month in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Econazole Nitrate Cream 1 % is supplied in tubes of 15 g ( NDC 33261 - 0956 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 Issued : April , 2005 PK - 3310 - 1 54 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Carton NDC 33261 - 0956 - 01 15 g Econazole Nitrate Cream 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
