A Prescription Prenatal Vitamin with other Vitamins and Minerals for Nutritional Supplementation Rx Only DESCRIPTION Se · Natal 19 Chewable tablets are round , debossed " TL015 . "
These tablets provide oil - soluble vitamins , water - soluble vitamins and minerals .
Each tablet contains : Supplement FactsServings per Bottle : 100 % DV For Pregnant and Lactating Women Serving Size 1 chewable tablet Each Tablet contains : Vitamin A ( as beta carotene ) 1000 IU 23 % Vitamin C ( calcium ascorbate ) 100 mg 83 % Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 10 mcg 67 % Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopherol acetate ) 30 IU 142 % Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) 3 mg 214 % Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 3 mg 188 % Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg 83 % Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine HCl ) 20 mg 1000 % Folate ( folic acid ) 1000 mcg 167 % Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg 429 % Pantothenic Aicd ( as calcium pantothenate ) 7 mg 100 % Calcium ( as calcium carbonate ) 200 mg 15 % Iron ( as ferrous fumarate ) 29 mg 107 % Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 20 mg 154 % CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oral iron is absorbed most efficiently when administered between meals .
Iron is critical for normal hemogloblin syntheis to maintain oxygen transport , energy production and proper function of cells .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for effective erythropoiesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several essential enzymes , including cytochromes , which are involved in electron transport .
Folic acid is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal erythropoiesis .
Folic acid is the precursor of tetrahydrofolic acid , which is involved as a cofactor for transformylation reactions in the biosynthesis of purines and thymidylates of nucleic acids .
Deficiency of folic acid may account for the defective deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) synthesis that leads to megaloblast formation and megablastic macrocytic anemias .
Vitamin B 12 is essential to growth cell reproduction , hematopoiesis , nucleic acid , and myelin synthesis .
Deficiency may result in megaloblastic anemia or pernicious anemia .
OTHER INGREDIENTS Acacia , Fumed Silica , Magnesium Stearate , Natural Orange Flavour , Orange Juice Powder , Stearic Acid , Stevia , Sucrose .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Se - Natal 19 Chewable Tablets are indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women throughout pregnancy and in the postnatal period for both lactating and non - lactating mothers .
Se - Natal 19 Chewable Tablets are also useful in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Take 2 hours after meals .
Do not exceed recommended dose .
Discontinue use if symptoms of intolerance appear .
Folic Acid Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia .
In that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Dosing for elderly patients should be cautious .
Due to the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy , dosing should start at the lower end of the dosing range .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritation , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and dark stools .
Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Prescriber should be aware of a number of iron / drug interactions , including antacids , tetracyclines , or fluoroquinolones .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms : Abdominal pain , metabolic acidosis , anuria , CNS damage , coma , convulsions , death , dehydration , diffuse vascular congestion , hepatic cirrhosis , hypotension , hypothermia , lethargy , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , tarry stools , melena , hematemesis , tachycardia , hyperglycemia , drowsiness , pallor , cyanosis , lassitude , seizures , and shock .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily , or as directed by a physician .
NOTICE Contact with moisture can discolor or erode the tablet .
HOW SUPPLIED Se - Natal 19 Chewable Tablets for oral administration are supplied as multi - color - speckled , round tablets debossed " TL015 , " packaged in bottles of 100 tablets .
Product Code : 13925 - 117 - 01 STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
PHARMACIST Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / INF with child - resistant closure .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Reserved for Professional Recommendation .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx Only Manufactured For : Seton Pharmaceuticals Manasquan , NJ 08736 1 - 800 - 510 - 3401 MADE IN CANADA Code 117 - 01 Rev . 03 / 18 SETON PHARMACEUTICALS PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 13925 - 117 - 01 Se - Natal 19 Chewable Tablets A Prescription Prenatal Vitamin with other Vitamins and Minerals for Nutritional Supplementation Rx Only 100 Tablets SETON PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
