Active Ingredient Hydrogen Peroxide ( Stablized ) 3 % Package Label Hydrogen Peroxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purpose First Aid Antiseptics / Oral Debriding Agent Uses First aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns .
Aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secrections assocated with occasional sore mouth Warnings For External Use only Do not use : in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body longer than a week Ask a doctor bbefore use if you have deep or punture wounds , animal bits or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse .
Sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days .
Irriation , pain or redness persists or worsens .
swelling , rash , or fever develops .
Keep reach out of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately .
Keep reach out of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately .
Directions first aid antiseptic : clean affected area apply small amount of product on affected area 1 - 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandage , let dry first oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : adults and children 2 years of age and over mix with an equal amount of water swish around in the mouth over affected area for atleast 1 minute and spit out use up to 4 x daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
children under 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age ; consult a dentist or doctor first aid antiseptic : clean affected area apply small amount of product on affected area 1 - 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandage , let dry first oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : adults and children 2 years of age and over mix with an equal amount of water swish around in the mouth over affected area for atleast 1 minute and spit out use up to 4 x daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
children under 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age ; consult a dentist or doctor Other Information Keep tightly closed and in a dark place at a controlled room temperature .
Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive Ingredient Purified water
