Indications and Usage , Limitations of Use ( 1 ) 4 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions , Cutaneous Reactions ( 5 . 5 ) 4 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions , Increased Mortality in Patients Treated with NINLARO in the Maintenance Setting ( 5 . 9 ) 4 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NINLARO is indicated in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy .
NINLARO is a proteasome inhibitor indicated in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : NINLARO is not recommended for use in the maintenance setting or in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone outside of controlled clinical trials .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : NINLARO is not recommended for use in the maintenance setting or in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone outside of controlled clinical trials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 , 14 . 3 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dose of 4 mg taken orally on Days 1 , 8 , and 15 of a 28 - day cycle .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dose should be taken at least one hour before or at least two hours after food .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing and Administration Guidelines NINLARO in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone The recommended starting dose of NINLARO is 4 mg administered orally once a week on Days 1 , 8 , and 15 of a 28 - day treatment cycle .
The recommended starting dose of lenalidomide is 25 mg administered daily on Days 1 through 21 of a 28 - day treatment cycle .
The recommended starting dose of dexamethasone is 40 mg administered on Days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of a 28 - day treatment cycle .
Table 1 : Dosing Schedule for NINLARO taken with Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone ✔ Take medicine28 - Day Cycle ( a 4 - week cycle ) Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Day 1 Days 2 - 7 Day 8 Days 9 - 14 Day 15 Days 16 - 21 Day 22 Days 23 - 28 NINLARO ✔ ✔ ✔ Lenalidomide ✔ ✔ Daily ✔ ✔ Daily ✔ ✔ Daily Dexamethasone ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ For additional information regarding lenalidomide and dexamethasone , refer to their prescribing information .
NINLARO should be taken once a week on the same day and at approximately the same time for the first three weeks of a four week cycle .
The importance of carefully following all dosage instructions should be discussed with patients starting treatment .
Instruct patients to take the recommended dosage as directed , because overdosage has led to deaths [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
NINLARO should be taken at least one hour before or at least two hours after food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The whole capsule should be swallowed with water .
The capsule should not be crushed , chewed or opened [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
If a NINLARO dose is delayed or missed , the dose should be taken only if the next scheduled dose is ≥ 72 hours away .
A missed dose should not be taken within 72 hours of the next scheduled dose .
A double dose should not be taken to make up for the missed dose .
If vomiting occurs after taking a dose , the patient should not repeat the dose .
The patient should resume dosing at the time of the next scheduled dose .
Prior to initiating a new cycle of therapy : • Absolute neutrophil count should be at least 1 , 000 / mm3 • Platelet count should be at least 75 , 000 / mm3 • Non - hematologic toxicities should , at the healthcare provider ' s discretion , generally be recovered to patient ' s baseline condition or Grade 1 or lower Treatment should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Concomitant Medications Consider antiviral prophylaxis in patients being treated with NINLARO to decrease the risk of herpes zoster reactivation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Modification Guidelines The NINLARO dose reduction steps are presented in Table 2 and the dosage modification guidelines are provided in Table 3 .
Table 2 : NINLARO Dose Reductions due to Adverse ReactionsRecommended starting dose [ 1 ] First reduction to Second reduction to Discontinue 4 mg 3 mg 2 . 3 mg [ 1 ] Recommended starting dose of 3 mg in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment , severe renal impairment or end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
An alternating dose modification approach is recommended for NINLARO and lenalidomide for thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , and rash as described in Table 3 .
Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information if dose reduction is needed for lenalidomide .
Table 3 : Dosage Modifications Guidelines for NINLARO in Combination with Lenalidomide and DexamethasoneHematological Toxicities Recommended Actions Thrombocytopenia ( Platelet Count ) Platelet count less than 30 , 000 / mm3 • Withhold NINLARO and lenalidomide until platelet count is at least 30 , 000 / mm3 .
• Following recovery , resume lenalidomide at the next lower dose according to its prescribing information and resume NINLARO at its most recent dose .
• If platelet count falls to less than 30 , 000 / mm3 again , withhold NINLARO and lenalidomide until platelet count is at least 30 , 000 / mm3 .
• Following recovery , resume NINLARO at the next lower dose and resume lenalidomide at its most recent dose .
[ 1 ] Neutropenia ( Absolute Neutrophil Count ) Absolute neutrophil count less than 500 / mm3 • Withhold NINLARO and lenalidomide until absolute neutrophil count is at least 500 / mm3 .
Consider adding G - CSF as per clinical guidelines .
• Following recovery , resume lenalidomide at the next lower dose according to its prescribing information and resume NINLARO at its most recent dose .
• If absolute neutrophil count falls to less than 500 / mm3 again , withhold NINLARO and lenalidomide until absolute neutrophil count is at least 500 / mm3 .
• Following recovery , resume NINLARO at the next lower dose and resume lenalidomide at its most recent dose .
null Non - Hematological Toxicities Recommended Actions Rash Grade [ 2 ] 2 or 3 • Withhold lenalidomide until rash recovers to Grade 1 or lower .
• Following recovery , resume lenalidomide at the next lower dose according to its prescribing information .
• If Grade 2 or 3 rash occurs again , withhold NINLARO and lenalidomide until rash recovers to Grade 1 or lower .
• Following recovery , resume NINLARO at the next lower dose and resume lenalidomide at its most recent dose .
null Grade 4 Discontinue treatment regimen .
Peripheral Neuropathy Grade 1 Peripheral Neuropathy with Pain or Grade 2 Peripheral Neuropathy • Withhold NINLARO until peripheral neuropathy recovers to Grade 1 or lower without pain or patient ' s baseline .
• Following recovery , resume NINLARO at its most recent dose .
Grade 2 Peripheral Neuropathy with Pain or Grade 3 Peripheral Neuropathy • Withhold NINLARO .
Toxicities should , at the healthcare provider ' s discretion , generally recover to patient ' s baseline condition or Grade 1 or lower prior to resuming NINLARO .
• Following recovery , resume NINLARO at the next lower dose .
Grade 4 Peripheral Neuropathy Discontinue treatment regimen .
Other Non - Hematological Toxicities Other Grade 3 or 4 Non - Hematological Toxicities • Withhold NINLARO .
Toxicities should , at the healthcare provider ' s discretion , generally recover to patient ' s baseline condition or Grade 1 or lower prior to resuming NINLARO .
• If attributable to NINLARO , resume NINLARO at the next lower dose following recovery .
[ 1 ] For additional occurrences , alternate dose modification of lenalidomide and NINLARO [ 2 ] Grading based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria ( CTCAE ) Version 4 . 03 2 . 3 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Reduce the starting dose of NINLARO to 3 mg in patients with moderate ( total bilirubin greater than 1 . 5 - 3 × ULN ) or severe ( total bilirubin greater than 3 × ULN ) hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Reduce the starting dose of NINLARO to 3 mg in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) or end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) requiring dialysis .
NINLARO is not dialyzable and therefore can be administered without regard to the timing of dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information for dosing recommendations in patients with renal impairment .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS NINLARO is available in the following capsules : • 4 mg : Light orange gelatin capsule imprinted with " Takeda " on the cap and " 4 mg " on the body in black ink .
• 3 mg : Light grey gelatin capsule imprinted with " Takeda " on the cap and " 3 mg " on the body in black ink .
• 2 . 3 mg : Light pink gelatin capsule imprinted with " Takeda " on the cap and " 2 . 3 mg " on the body in black ink .
Capsules : 4 mg , 3 mg , and 2 . 3 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thrombocytopenia : Monitor platelet counts at least monthly during treatment and adjust dosing , as needed .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal Toxicities : Adjust dosing for severe diarrhea , constipation , nausea , and vomiting , as needed .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) • Peripheral Neuropathy : Monitor patients for symptoms of peripheral neuropathy and adjust dosing , as needed .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Peripheral Edema : Monitor for fluid retention .
Investigate for underlying causes , when appropriate .
Adjust dosing , as needed .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) • Cutaneous Reactions : Monitor patients for rash and adjust dosing , as needed .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) • Thrombotic Microangiopathy : Monitor for signs and symptoms .
Discontinue NINLARO if suspected .
( 5 . 6 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor hepatic enzymes during treatment .
( 5 . 7 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : NINLARO can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective non - hormonal contraception .
( 5 . 8 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Increased Mortality in Patients Treated with NINLARO in the Maintenance Setting : Treatment of patients with NINLARO for multiple myeloma in the maintenance setting is not recommended outside of controlled trials .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia has been reported with NINLARO with platelet nadirs typically occurring between Days 14 - 21 of each 28 - day cycle and recovery to baseline by the start of the next cycle [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Grade 3 thrombocytopenia was reported in 17 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and Grade 4 thrombocytopenia was reported in 13 % in the NINLARO regimen .
The rate of platelet transfusions was 10 % in the NINLARO regimen and 7 % in the placebo regimen .
Monitor platelet counts at least monthly during treatment with NINLARO .
Consider more frequent monitoring during the first three cycles .
Manage thrombocytopenia with dose modifications [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] and platelet transfusions as per standard medical guidelines .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Toxicities Diarrhea , constipation , nausea , and vomiting have been reported with NINLARO , occasionally requiring use of antidiarrheal and antiemetic medications , and supportive care .
Diarrhea was reported in 52 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and 43 % in the placebo regimen , constipation in 35 % and 28 % , respectively , nausea in 32 % and 23 % , respectively , and vomiting in 26 % and 13 % , respectively .
Diarrhea resulted in discontinuation of one or more of the three drugs in 3 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and 2 % of patients in the placebo regimen [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Adjust dosing for Grade 3 or 4 symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Peripheral Neuropathy The majority of peripheral neuropathy adverse reactions were Grade 1 ( 18 % in the NINLARO regimen and 16 % in the placebo regimen ) and Grade 2 ( 11 % in the NINLARO regimen and 6 % in the placebo regimen ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Grade 3 adverse reactions of peripheral neuropathy were reported at 2 % in both regimens .
The most commonly reported reaction was peripheral sensory neuropathy ( 24 % and 17 % in the NINLARO and placebo regimen , respectively ) .
Peripheral motor neuropathy was not commonly reported in either regimen ( < 1 % ) .
Peripheral neuropathy resulted in discontinuation of one or more of the three drugs in 4 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and < 1 % of patients in the placebo regimen .
Patients should be monitored for symptoms of neuropathy .
Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy may require dose modification [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Peripheral Edema Peripheral edema was reported in 27 % and 21 % of patients in the NINLARO and placebo regimens , respectively .
The majority of peripheral edema adverse reactions were Grade 1 ( 17 % in the NINLARO regimen and 14 % in the placebo regimen ) and Grade 2 ( 7 % in the NINLARO regimen and 6 % in the placebo regimen ) .
Grade 3 peripheral edema was reported in 2 % and 1 % of patients in the NINLARO and placebo regimens , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Peripheral edema resulted in discontinuation of one or more of the three drugs in < 1 % of patients in both regimens .
Evaluate for underlying causes and provide supportive care , as necessary .
Adjust dosing of dexamethasone per its prescribing information or NINLARO for Grade 3 or 4 symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Cutaneous Reactions Rash was reported in 27 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and 16 % of patients in the placebo regimen .
The majority of the rash adverse reactions were Grade 1 ( 15 % in the NINLARO regimen and 9 % in the placebo regimen ) or Grade 2 ( 9 % in the NINLARO regimen and 4 % in the placebo regimen ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Grade 3 rash was reported in 3 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and 2 % of patients in the placebo regimen .
Serious adverse reactions of rash were reported in < 1 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen .
The most common type of rash reported in both regimens included maculo - papular and macular rash .
Rash resulted in discontinuation of one or more of the three drugs in < 1 % of patients in both regimens .
Manage rash with supportive care or with dose modification if Grade 2 or higher [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome , including a fatal case , has been reported with NINLARO [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
If Stevens - Johnson syndrome occurs , discontinue NINLARO and manage as clinically indicated .
5 . 6 Thrombotic Microangiopathy Cases , sometimes fatal , of thrombotic microangiopathy , including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura / hemolytic uremic syndrome ( TTP / HUS ) , have been reported in patients who received NINLARO [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of TTP / HUS .
If the diagnosis is suspected , stop NINLARO and evaluate .
If the diagnosis of TTP / HUS is excluded , consider restarting NINLARO .
The safety of reinitiating NINLARO therapy in patients previously experiencing TTP / HUS is not known .
5 . 7 Hepatotoxicity Drug - induced liver injury , hepatocellular injury , hepatic steatosis , hepatitis cholestatic and hepatotoxicity have each been reported in < 1 % of patients treated with NINLARO [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity has been reported ( 10 % in the NINLARO regimen and 9 % in the placebo regimen ) .
Monitor hepatic enzymes regularly and adjust dosing for Grade 3 or 4 symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 8 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity NINLARO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman based on the mechanism of action and findings in animal studies .
Ixazomib caused embryo - fetal toxicity in pregnant rats and rabbits at doses resulting in exposures that were slightly higher than those observed in patients receiving the recommended dose .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraception during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days following the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days following the last dose [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 9 Increased Mortality in Patients Treated with NINLARO in the Maintenance Setting In two prospective randomized clinical trials in multiple myeloma in the maintenance setting , treatment with NINLARO resulted in increased deaths .
Treatment of patients with NINLARO for multiple myeloma in the maintenance setting is not recommended outside of controlled trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in detail in other sections of the prescribing information : • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Gastrointestinal Toxicities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Peripheral Neuropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Peripheral Edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Cutaneous Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Thrombotic Microangiopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) are thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , diarrhea , constipation , peripheral neuropathy , nausea , peripheral edema , rash , vomiting , and bronchitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 844 - 617 - 6468 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety population from the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical study included 720 patients with relapsed and / or refractory multiple myeloma , who received NINLARO in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone ( NINLARO regimen ; N = 361 ) or placebo in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone ( placebo regimen ; N = 359 ) .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % with a difference of ≥ 5 % compared to placebo ) in the NINLARO regimen were thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , diarrhea , constipation , peripheral neuropathy , nausea , peripheral edema , rash , vomiting , and bronchitis .
Serious adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen included diarrhea ( 3 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 2 % ) and bronchitis ( 2 % ) .
One or more of the three drugs was permanently discontinued in 4 % of patients reporting peripheral neuropathy , 3 % of patients reporting diarrhea and 2 % of patients reporting thrombocytopenia .
Permanent discontinuation of NINLARO due to an adverse reaction occurred in 10 % of patients .
Table 4 summarizes the non - hematologic adverse reactions occurring in at least 5 % of patients with at least a 5 % difference between the NINLARO regimen and the placebo regimen .
Table 4 : Non - Hematologic Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % of Patients with a ≥ 5 % Difference Between the NINLARO Regimen and the Placebo Regimen ( All Grades , Grade 3 and Grade 4 ) System Organ Class / Preferred Term NINLARO + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone N = 361 Placebo + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone N = 359 % % All Grades Grade 3 Grade 4 All Grades Grade 3 Grade 4 Note : Adverse reactions included as preferred terms are based on MedDRA version 23 . 0 .
Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 52 10 0 43 3 0 Constipation 35 < 1 0 28 < 1 0 Nausea 32 2 0 23 0 0 Vomiting 26 1 0 13 < 1 0 Nervous system disorders Peripheral neuropathies [ 1 ] 32 2 0 24 2 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain [ 2 ] 27 < 1 0 24 3 0 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection null 27 1 0 23 1 0 Bronchitis 22 2 0 17 2 < 1 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash null 27 3 0 16 2 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Edema peripheral 27 2 0 21 1 0 [ 1 ] Represents a pooling of preferred terms [ 2 ] At the time of the final analysis , these adverse reactions no longer met the criterion for a ≥ 5 % difference between the NINLARO regimen and the placebo regimen .
Table 5 represents pooled information from adverse event and laboratory data .
Table 5 : Thrombocytopenia and Neutropenia NINLARO + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone N = 361 Placebo + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone N = 359 % % Any Grade Grade 3 - 4 Any Grade Grade 3 - 4 Thrombocytopenia 85 30 67 14 Neutropenia 74 34 70 37 Herpes Zoster Herpes zoster was reported in 6 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and 3 % of patients in the placebo regimen .
Antiviral prophylaxis was allowed at the healthcare provider ' s discretion .
Patients treated in the NINLARO regimen who received antiviral prophylaxis had a lower incidence ( 1 % ) of herpes zoster infection compared to patients who did not receive prophylaxis ( 10 % ) .
Eye Disorders Eye disorders were reported with many different preferred terms but in aggregate , the frequency was 38 % in patients in the NINLARO regimen .
The most common adverse reactions of the eyes were cataract ( 15 % ) , conjunctivitis ( 9 % ) , blurred vision ( 7 % ) , and dry eye ( 6 % ) .
Other Clinical Trials Experience The following serious adverse reactions have each been reported at a frequency of < 1 % in patients treated with NINLARO : acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ( Sweet ' s syndrome ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , transverse myelitis , posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome , tumor lysis syndrome , and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A inducers : Avoid concomitant use with NINLARO .
( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Strong CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant administration of NINLARO with strong CYP3A inducers ( such as rifampin , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and St . John ' s Wort ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic Impairment : Reduce the NINLARO starting dose to 3 mg in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) • Renal Impairment : Reduce the NINLARO starting dose to 3 mg in patients with severe renal impairment or end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis .
( 2 . 4 , 8 . 7 ) • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] and data from animal reproduction studies , NINLARO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on NINLARO use in pregnant women to evaluate drug - associated risk .
Ixazomib caused embryo - fetal toxicity in pregnant rats and rabbits at doses resulting in exposures that were slightly higher than those observed in patients receiving the recommended dose ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits there were increases in fetal skeletal variations / abnormalities ( fused caudal vertebrae , number of lumbar vertebrae , and full supernumerary ribs ) at doses that were also maternally toxic ( ≥ 0 . 3 mg / kg ) .
Exposures in the rabbit at 0 . 3 mg / kg were 1 . 9 times the clinical time averaged exposures at the recommended dose of 4 mg .
In a rat dose range - finding embryo - fetal development study , at doses that were maternally toxic , there were decreases in fetal weights , a trend towards decreased fetal viability , and increased post - implantation losses at 0 . 6 mg / kg .
Exposures in rats at the dose of 0 . 6 mg / kg was 2 . 5 times the clinical time averaged exposures at the recommended dose of 4 mg .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ixazomib or its metabolites in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breast fed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from NINLARO in a breastfed infant , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential NINLARO can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating NINLARO .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraception during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days after the last dose .
Dexamethasone is known to be a weak to moderate inducer of CYP3A4 as well as other enzymes and transporters .
Because NINLARO is administered with dexamethasone , the risk for reduced efficacy of contraceptives needs to be considered [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of NINLARO , 55 % were 65 and over , while 17 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment , the mean AUC increased by 20 % when compared to patients with normal hepatic function .
Reduce the starting dose of NINLARO in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD requiring dialysis , the mean AUC increased by 39 % when compared to patients with normal renal function .
Reduce the starting dose of NINLARO in patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD requiring dialysis .
NINLARO is not dialyzable and therefore can be administered without regard to the timing of dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage , including fatal overdosage , has been reported in patients taking NINLARO .
Manifestations of overdosage include adverse reactions reported at the recommended dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Serious adverse reactions reported with overdosage include severe nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , aspiration pneumonia , multiple organ failure and death .
In the event of an overdosage , monitor for adverse reactions and provide appropriate supportive care .
NINLARO is not dialyzable .
11 DESCRIPTION Ixazomib is a proteasome inhibitor .
Ixazomib citrate , a prodrug , rapidly hydrolyzes under physiological conditions to its biologically active form , ixazomib .
The chemical name of ixazomib citrate is 1 , 3 , 2 - dioxaborolane - 4 , 4 - diacetic acid , 2 - [ ( 1 R ) - 1 - [ [ 2 - [ ( 2 , 5 - dichlorobenzoyl ) amino ] acetyl ] amino ] - 3 - methylbutyl ] - 5 - oxo - and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula for ixazomib citrate is C20H23BCl2N2O9 and its molecular weight is 517 . 12 .
Ixazomib citrate has one chiral center and is the R - stereoisomer .
The solubility of ixazomib citrate in 0 . 1 N HCl ( pH 1 . 2 ) at 37 ° C is 0 . 61 mg / mL ( reported as ixazomib ) .
The solubility increases as the pH increases .
NINLARO ( ixazomib ) capsules for oral use contain 4 , 3 or 2 . 3 mg of ixazomib equivalent to 5 . 7 , 4 . 3 or 3 . 3 mg of ixazomib citrate , respectively .
Inactive ingredients include microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , and talc .
Capsule shells contain gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The 4 mg capsule shell contains red and yellow iron oxide , the 3 mg capsule shell contains black iron oxide and the 2 . 3 mg capsule shell contains red iron oxide .
The printing ink contains shellac , propylene glycol , potassium hydroxide , and black iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ixazomib is a reversible proteasome inhibitor .
Ixazomib preferentially binds and inhibits the chymotrypsin - like activity of the beta 5 subunit of the 20 S proteasome .
Ixazomib induced apoptosis of multiple myeloma cell lines in vitro .
Ixazomib demonstrated in vitro cytotoxicity against myeloma cells from patients who had relapsed after multiple prior therapies , including bortezomib , lenalidomide , and dexamethasone .
The combination of ixazomib and lenalidomide demonstrated synergistic cytotoxic effects in multiple myeloma cell lines .
In vivo , ixazomib demonstrated antitumor activity in a mouse multiple myeloma tumor xenograft model .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology NINLARO did not prolong the QTc interval at clinically relevant exposures based on pharmacokinetic - pharmacodynamic analysis of data from 245 patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration , the median time to achieve peak ixazomib plasma concentrations was one hour .
The mean absolute oral bioavailability was 58 % , based on population PK analysis .
Ixazomib AUC increases in a dose proportional manner over a dose range of 0 . 2 to 10 . 6 mg .
A food effect study conducted in patients with a single 4 mg dose of ixazomib showed that a high - fat meal decreased ixazomib AUC by 28 % and Cmax by 69 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Ixazomib is 99 % bound to plasma proteins and distributes into red blood cells with a blood - to - plasma ratio of 10 .
The steady - state volume of distribution is 543 L . Elimination Based on a population PK analysis , systemic clearance was approximately 1 . 9 L / hr with inter - individual variability of 44 % .
The terminal half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of ixazomib was 9 . 5 days .
Following weekly oral dosing , the accumulation ratio was determined to be 2 - fold .
Metabolism After oral administration of a radiolabeled dose , ixazomib represented 70 % of total drug - related material in plasma .
Metabolism by multiple CYP enzymes and non - CYP proteins is expected to be the major clearance mechanism for ixazomib .
At clinically relevant ixazomib concentrations , in vitro studies using human cDNA - expressed cytochrome P450 isozymes showed that no specific CYP isozyme predominantly contributes to ixazomib metabolism .
At higher than clinical concentrations , ixazomib was metabolized by multiple CYP isoforms with estimated relative contributions of 3A4 ( 42 % ) , 1A2 ( 26 % ) , 2B6 ( 16 % ) , 2C8 ( 6 % ) , 2D6 ( 5 % ) , 2C19 ( 5 % ) and 2C9 ( < 1 % ) .
Excretion After administration of a single oral dose of 14 C - ixazomib to 5 patients with advanced cancer , 62 % of the administered radioactivity was excreted in urine and 22 % in the feces .
Unchanged ixazomib accounted for < 3 . 5 % of the administered dose recovered in urine .
Specific Populations There was no clinically meaningful effect of age ( range 23 - 91 years ) , sex , body surface area ( range 1 . 2 - 2 . 7 m2 ) , or race on the clearance of ixazomib based on population PK analysis .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The PK of ixazomib was similar in patients with normal hepatic function and in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN or total bilirubin > 1 - 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) based on population PK analysis .
The PK of ixazomib was characterized in patients with normal hepatic function at 4 mg ( N = 12 ) , moderate hepatic impairment at 2 . 3 mg ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 - 3 × ULN , N = 13 ) or severe hepatic impairment at 1 . 5 mg ( total bilirubin > 3 × ULN , N = 18 ) .
Dose - normalized mean AUC was 20 % higher in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment as compared to patients with normal hepatic function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with Renal Impairment The PK of ixazomib was similar in patients with normal renal function and in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≥ 30 mL / min ) based on population PK analysis .
The PK of ixazomib was characterized at a dose of 3 mg in patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance ≥ 90 mL / min , N = 18 ) , severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min , N = 14 ) , or ESRD requiring dialysis ( N = 6 ) .
Mean AUC was 39 % higher in patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD requiring dialysis as compared to patients with normal renal function .
Pre - and post - dialyzer concentrations of ixazomib measured during the hemodialysis session were similar , suggesting that ixazomib is not dialyzable [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Effect of Other Drugs on NINLARO Strong CYP3A Inducers Co - administration of NINLARO with rifampin decreased ixazomib Cmax by 54 % and AUC by 74 % [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Co - administration of NINLARO with clarithromycin did not result in a clinically meaningful change in the systemic exposure of ixazomib .
Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Co - administration of NINLARO with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors did not result in a clinically meaningful change in the systemic exposure of ixazomib based on a population PK analysis .
Effect of NINLARO on Other Drugs Ixazomib is neither a reversible nor a time - dependent inhibitor of CYPs 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 / 5 .
Ixazomib did not induce CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , and CYP3A4 / 5 activity or corresponding immunoreactive protein levels .
NINLARO is not expected to produce drug - drug interactions via CYP inhibition or induction .
Transporter - Based Interactions Ixazomib is a low affinity substrate of P - gp .
Ixazomib is not a substrate of BCRP , MRP2 or hepatic OATPs .
Ixazomib is not an inhibitor of P - gp , BCRP , MRP2 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OCT2 , OAT1 , OAT3 , MATE1 , or MATE2 - K .
NINLARO is not expected to cause transporter - mediated drug - drug interactions .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ixazomib was not mutagenic in a bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames assay ) .
Ixazomib was considered positive in an in vitro clastogenicity test in human peripheral blood lymphocytes .
However , in vivo , ixazomib was not clastogenic in a bone marrow micronucleus assay in mice and was negative in an in vivo comet assay in mice , as assessed in the stomach and liver .
No carcinogenicity studies have been performed with ixazomib .
Developmental toxicity studies in rats and rabbits did not show direct embryo - fetal toxicity below maternally toxic doses of ixazomib .
Studies of fertility and early embryonic development and pre - and postnatal toxicology were not conducted with ixazomib , but evaluation of reproductive tissues was conducted in the general toxicity studies .
There were no effects due to ixazomib treatment on male or female reproductive organs in studies up to 6 - months duration in rats and up to 9 - months duration in dogs .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Multiple Myeloma in Patients Who Have Received at Least One Prior Therapy The efficacy and safety of NINLARO in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter study in patients with relapsed and / or refractory multiple myeloma who had received at least one prior line of therapy .
Patients who were refractory to lenalidomide or proteasome inhibitors were excluded from the study .
A total of 722 patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive either the combination of NINLARO , lenalidomide and dexamethasone ( N = 360 ; NINLARO regimen ) or the combination of placebo , lenalidomide and dexamethasone ( N = 362 ; placebo regimen ) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Randomization was stratified according to number of prior lines of therapy ( 1 versus 2 or 3 ) , myeloma International Staging System ( ISS ) ( stage I or II versus III ) , and previous therapy with a proteasome inhibitor ( exposed or naïve ) .
Twenty three percent ( N = 166 ) of the patients had light chain disease and 12 % ( N = 87 ) of patients had free light chain - measurable only disease .
Thromboprophylaxis was recommended for all patients in both treatment groups according to the lenalidomide prescribing information .
Antiemetics were used in 19 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and 12 % of patients in the placebo regimen ; antivirals in 64 % and 60 % , respectively , and antihistamines in 27 % and 19 % , respectively .
These medications were given to patients at the healthcare provider ' s discretion as prophylaxis and / or management of symptoms .
Patients received NINLARO 4 mg or placebo on Days 1 , 8 , and 15 plus lenalidomide ( 25 mg ) on Days 1 through 21 and dexamethasone ( 40 mg ) on Days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of a 28 - day cycle .
Patients with renal impairment received a starting dose of lenalidomide according to its prescribing information .
Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities .
Table 6 summarizes the baseline patient and disease characteristics in the study .
The baseline demographics and disease characteristics were balanced and comparable between the study regimens .
Table 6 : Baseline Patient and Disease Characteristics NINLARO + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone ( N = 360 ) Placebo + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone ( N = 362 ) Patient Characteristics Median age in years ( range ) 66 ( 38 , 91 ) 66 ( 30 , 89 ) Gender ( % ) Male / Female 58 / 42 56 / 44 Age Group ( % [ < 65 / ≥ 65 years ] ) 41 / 59 43 / 57 Race n ( % ) White 310 ( 86 ) 301 ( 83 ) Black 7 ( 2 ) 6 ( 2 ) Asian 30 ( 8 ) 34 ( 9 ) Other or Not Specified 13 ( 4 ) 21 ( 6 ) ECOG performance status , n ( % ) 0 or 1 336 ( 93 ) 334 ( 92 ) 2 18 ( 5 ) 24 ( 7 ) Missing 6 ( 2 ) 4 ( 1 ) Creatinine clearance , n ( % ) < 30 mL / min 5 ( 1 ) 5 ( 1 ) 30 - 59 mL / min 74 ( 21 ) 95 ( 26 ) ≥ 60 mL / min 281 ( 78 ) 261 ( 72 ) Disease Characteristics Myeloma ISS stage , n ( % ) Stage I or II 315 ( 87 ) 320 ( 88 ) Stage III 45 ( 13 ) 42 ( 12 ) Prior line therapies n ( % ) Median ( range ) 1 ( 1 , 3 ) 1 ( 1 , 3 ) 1 224 ( 62 ) 217 ( 60 ) 2 or 3 136 ( 38 ) 145 ( 40 ) Status at Baseline n ( % ) Relapsed 276 ( 77 ) 280 ( 77 ) Refractory [ 1 ] 42 ( 12 ) 40 ( 11 ) Relapsed and Refractory 41 ( 11 ) 42 ( 12 ) Type of Prior Therapy n ( % ) Bortezomib containing 248 ( 69 ) 250 ( 69 ) Carfilzomib containing 1 ( < 1 ) 4 ( 1 ) Thalidomide containing 157 ( 44 ) 170 ( 47 ) Lenalidomide containing 44 ( 12 ) 44 ( 12 ) Melphalan containing 293 ( 81 ) 291 ( 80 ) Stem cell transplantation 212 ( 59 ) 199 ( 55 ) High risk ( deletion ( del ) 17 , t ( 4 : 14 ) and / or t ( 14 : 16 ) 75 ( 21 ) 62 ( 17 ) deletion del ( 17 ) 36 ( 10 ) 33 ( 9 ) [ 1 ] Primary refractory , defined as best response of stable disease or disease progression on all prior lines of therapy , was documented in 7 % and 6 % of patients in the NINLARO regimen and placebo regimens , respectively .
The efficacy of NINLARO was evaluated by progression - free survival ( PFS ) according to the 2011 International Myeloma Working Group ( IMWG ) Consensus Uniform Response Criteria as assessed by a blinded independent review committee ( IRC ) based on central lab results .
Response was assessed every four weeks until disease progression .
The approval of NINLARO was based upon a statistically significant improvement in PFS of the NINLARO regimen compared to the placebo regimen .
PFS results are summarized in Table 7 and shown in Figure 1 .
Table 7 : Progression - Free Survival and Response Rate NINLARO + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone ( N = 360 ) Placebo + Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone ( N = 362 ) NE : Not evaluable .
Progression - free Survival PFS Events , n ( % ) 129 ( 36 ) 157 ( 43 ) Median ( months ) ( 95 % CI ) 20 . 6 ( 17 . 0 , NE ) 14 . 7 ( 12 . 9 , 17 . 6 ) Hazard Ratio [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 74 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 94 ) p - value [ 2 ] 0 . 012 Response Rate Overall Response Rate , n ( % ) 282 ( 78 ) 259 ( 72 ) Complete Response 42 ( 12 ) 24 ( 7 ) Very Good Partial Response 131 ( 36 ) 117 ( 32 ) Partial Response 109 ( 30 ) 118 ( 33 ) [ 1 ] Hazard ratio is based on a stratified Cox ' s proportional hazard regression model .
A hazard ratio less than 1 indicates an advantage for the NINLARO regimen .
[ 2 ] P - value is based on the stratified log - rank test .
The median time to response was 1 . 1 months in the NINLARO regimen and 1 . 9 months in the placebo regimen .
The median duration of response was 20 . 5 months in the NINLARO regimen and 15 months in the placebo regimen for responders in the response evaluable population .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Plot of Progression - Free Survival [ MULTIMEDIA ] A non - inferential PFS analysis was conducted at a median follow up of 23 months with 372 PFS events .
Hazard ratio of PFS was 0 . 82 ( 95 % confidence interval [ 0 . 67 , 1 . 0 ] ) for NINLARO regimen versus placebo regimen , and estimated median PFS was 20 months in the NINLARO regimen and 15 . 9 months in the placebo regimen .
At the final analysis for OS at a median duration of follow up of approximately 85 months , median OS in the ITT population was 53 . 6 months for patients in the NINLARO regimen and 51 . 6 months for patients in the placebo regimen ( HR = 0 . 94 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 78 , 1 . 13 ] ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Increased Mortality in Patients Treated with NINLARO in the Maintenance Setting In C16019 ( NCT02181413 ) , newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients who underwent autologous stem cell transplantation , continued on maintenance therapy for 24 months .
There were 27 % ( 105 / 395 ) deaths in the NINLARO arm compared with 26 % ( 69 / 261 ) in the placebo arm .
The hazard ratio for overall survival was 1 . 008 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 744 - 1 . 367 ) .
In C16021 ( NCT02312258 ) , newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients , not treated with a stem cell transplant who achieved a partial response or better , continued on maintenance therapy for 24 months .
There were 30 % ( 127 / 425 ) deaths in the NINLARO arm compared with 27 % ( 76 / 281 ) in the placebo arm .
The hazard ratio for overall survival was 1 . 136 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 853 - 1 . 514 ) .
NINLARO is not recommended for use in the maintenance setting for multiple myeloma outside of controlled clinical trials [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
14 . 3 Lack of Efficacy in Patients with Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Lack of efficacy in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma was determined in a prospective randomized clinical trial .
In C16014 ( NCT01850524 ) , in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients , the study did not meet the prespecified primary endpoint for PFS .
There were 136 ( 39 % ) deaths in the NINLARO , lenalidomide , and dexamethasone arm compared to 148 ( 42 % ) in the lenalidomide and dexamethasone arm .
The hazard ratio for overall survival was 0 . 998 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 79 - 1 . 261 ) .
NINLARO is not recommended for use in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma outside of controlled clinical trials [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
15 REFERENCES • OSHA Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied NINLARO is supplied as follows : Strength per Capsule Capsule Description Outer Carton Blister Pack NDC 4 mg Light orange , size 3 , imprinted with " Takeda " on the cap and " 4 mg " on the body in black ink .
Three 4 mg single blister packs in a carton Each blister has one 4 mg capsule Outer carton NDC 63020 - 400 - 02 Blister pack NDC 63020 - 400 - 01 3 mg Light grey , size 4 , imprinted with " Takeda " on the cap and " 3 mg " on the body in black ink .
Three 3 mg single blister packs in a carton Each blister has one 3 mg capsule Outer carton NDC 63020 - 390 - 02 Blister pack NDC 63020 - 390 - 01 2 . 3 mg Light pink , size 4 , imprinted with " Takeda " on the cap and " 2 . 3 mg " on the body in black ink .
Three 2 . 3 mg single blister packs in a carton Each blister has one 2 . 3 mg capsule Outer carton NDC 63020 - 230 - 02 Blister pack NDC 63020 - 230 - 01 Capsules are individually packaged in a PVC - Aluminum / Aluminum blister .
Storage Store NINLARO at room temperature .
Do not store above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Store capsules in original packaging until immediately prior to use .
Handling and Disposal NINLARO is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 .
Do not open or crush capsules .
Avoid direct contact with the capsule contents .
In case of capsule breakage , avoid direct contact of capsule contents with the skin or eyes .
If contact occurs with the skin , wash thoroughly with soap and water .
If contact occurs with the eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local requirements .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Dosing Instructions • Instruct patients to take NINLARO exactly as prescribed .
• Advise patients to take NINLARO once a week on the same day and at approximately the same time for the first three weeks of a four week cycle .
The importance of carefully following all dosage instructions should be discussed with patients starting treatment .
Advise patients to take the recommended dosage as directed , because overdosage has led to deaths [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
• Advise patients to take NINLARO at least one hour before or at least two hours after food .
• Advise patients that NINLARO and dexamethasone should not be taken at the same time , because dexamethasone should be taken with food and NINLARO should not be taken with food .
• Advise patients to swallow the capsule whole with water .
The capsule should not be crushed , chewed or opened .
• Advise patients that direct contact with the capsule contents should be avoided .
In case of capsule breakage , avoid direct contact of capsule contents with the skin or eyes .
If contact occurs with the skin , wash thoroughly with soap and water .
If contact occurs with the eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
• If a patient misses a dose , advise them to take the missed dose as long as the next scheduled dose is ≥ 72 hours away .
Advise patients not to take a missed dose if it is within 72 hours of their next scheduled dose .
• If a patient vomits after taking a dose , advise them not to repeat the dose but resume dosing at the time of the next scheduled dose .
• Advise patients to store capsules in original packaging , and not to remove the capsule from the packaging until just prior to taking NINLARO .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] Thrombocytopenia Advise patients that they may experience low platelet counts ( thrombocytopenia ) .
Signs of thrombocytopenia may include bleeding and easy bruising .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Toxicities Advise patients they may experience diarrhea , constipation , nausea and vomiting and to contact their healthcare providers if these adverse reactions persist .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Peripheral Neuropathy Advise patients to contact their healthcare providers if they experience new or worsening symptoms of peripheral neuropathy such as tingling , numbness , pain , a burning feeling in the feet or hands , or weakness in the arms or legs .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Peripheral Edema Advise patients to contact their healthcare providers if they experience unusual swelling of their extremities or weight gain due to swelling [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Cutaneous Reactions Advise patients to contact their healthcare providers immediately if they experience new or worsening rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Thrombotic Microangiopathy Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of thrombotic microangiopathy occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Advise patients to contact their healthcare providers if they experience jaundice or right upper quadrant abdominal pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Other Adverse Reactions Advise patients to contact their healthcare providers if they experience signs and symptoms of acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ( Sweet ' s syndrome ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , transverse myelitis , posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome , tumor lysis syndrome , herpes zoster , cataracts , dry eyes , blurred vision , conjunctivitis and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days following the last dose .
Advise women using hormonal contraceptives to also use a barrier method of contraception [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days following the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Concomitant Medications Advise patients to speak with their healthcare providers about any other medication they are currently taking and before starting any new medications .
Distributed by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 NINLARO ® and the NINLARO Logo ® are registered trademarks of Millennium Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
© 2022 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , you may also go to www . NINLARO . com or call 1 - 844 - 617 - 6468 .
IXB349 R8 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : November 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION NINLARO ® ( nin - LAR - oh ) ( ixazomib ) capsules NINLARO is used with two other prescription medicines called REVLIMID ® ( lenalidomide ) and dexamethasone .
Read the Medication Guide that comes with REVLIMID ® ( lenalidomide ) .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about dexamethasone .
What is NINLARO ?
NINLARO is a prescription medicine used to treat multiple myeloma in combination with the medicines REVLIMID ® ( lenalidomide ) and dexamethasone , in people who have received at least one prior treatment for their multiple myeloma .
NINLARO should not be used to treat people : • who are receiving maintenance treatment , or • who have been newly diagnosed with multiple myeloma , unless they are participants in a controlled clinical trial .
It is not known if NINLARO is safe and effective in children .
Before taking NINLARO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems • have kidney problems or are on dialysis • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
NINLARO can harm your unborn baby .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • Avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with NINLARO .
• Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with NINLARO .
• You should use effective non - hormonal birth control during treatment and for 90 days after your last dose of NINLARO .
If using hormonal contraceptives ( for example , birth control pills ) , you should also use an additional barrier method of contraception ( for example , diaphragm or condom ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods that may be right for you during this time .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during treatment with NINLARO .
Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant : • You should use effective birth control during treatment and for 90 days after your last dose of NINLARO .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if your partner becomes pregnant or thinks she may be pregnant while you are being treated with NINLARO .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if NINLARO passes into breast milk , if it affects an infant who is breastfed , or breast milk production .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with NINLARO and for 90 days after your last dose of NINLARO .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Talk to your healthcare provider before starting any new medicines during treatment with NINLARO .
How should I take NINLARO ?
• Take NINLARO exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Do not change your dose or stop taking NINLARO without talking to your healthcare provider first .
• NINLARO is taken in " cycles . "
Each cycle lasts 4 weeks ( 28 days ) .
• The usual dose of NINLARO is 1 capsule taken 1 time each week , on the same day of the week for the first 3 weeks of each cycle .
• Take each dose of NINLARO at about the same time of day .
• Take REVLIMID ( lenalidomide ) and dexamethasone exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Your healthcare provider will do blood tests during treatment with NINLARO to check for side effects .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose or stop NINLARO , REVLIMID ( lenalidomide ) , or dexamethasone if you have side effects .
• Take NINLARO at least 1 hour before or at least 2 hours after food .
• On the days that you take both NINLARO and dexamethasone , do not take NINLARO and dexamethasone at the same time .
Take dexamethasone with food .
• Swallow NINLARO capsules whole with water .
Do not crush , chew or open the capsule .
• Avoid direct contact with the capsule contents .
If you accidentally get powder from the NINLARO capsule on your skin , wash the area well with soap and water .
If you accidentally get powder from the NINLARO capsule in your eyes , flush your eyes well with water .
• If you miss a dose of NINLARO , or if you are late taking a dose , take the dose as long as the next scheduled dose is more than 3 days ( 72 hours ) away .
Do not take a missed dose of NINLARO if it is within 3 days ( 72 hours ) of your next scheduled dose .
• If you vomit after taking a dose of NINLARO , do not repeat the dose .
Take your next dose of NINLARO on the next scheduled day and time .
• Your healthcare provider may prescribe a medicine to take with NINLARO to decrease the risk of the chicken pox virus ( herpes zoster ) coming back ( reactivation ) .
• Taking too much NINLARO ( overdose ) can cause serious side effects , including death .
If you take more NINLARO than instructed by your healthcare provider , call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
Take your medicine pack with you .
What are the possible side effects of NINLARO ?
NINLARO may cause serious side effects , including : • Low platelet counts ( thrombocytopenia ) .
Low platelet counts are common with NINLARO , and can sometimes be serious .
You may need platelet transfusions if your counts are too low .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any signs of low platelet counts , including bleeding and easy bruising .
• Stomach and intestinal ( gastrointestinal ) problems .
Diarrhea , constipation , nausea , and vomiting are common with NINLARO , and can sometimes be severe .
Call your healthcare provider if you get any of these symptoms and they do not go away during treatment with NINLARO .
Your healthcare provider may prescribe medicine to help treat your symptoms .
• Nerve problems .
Nerve problems are common with NINLARO and may also be severe .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any new or worsening symptoms , including : • tingling • numbness • pain • a burning feeling in your feet or hands • weakness in your arms or legs • Swelling .
Swelling is common with NINLARO and can sometimes be severe .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop swelling in your arms , hands , legs , ankles , or feet , or if you gain weight from swelling .
• Skin reactions .
Rashes are common with NINLARO .
NINLARO can cause rashes and other skin reactions that can be serious and can lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get a new or worsening rash , severe blistering or peeling of the skin , or mouth sores .
• Thrombotic microangiopathy ( TMA ) .
This is a condition involving blood clots and injury to small blood vessels that may cause harm to your kidneys , brain , and other organs , and may lead to death .
Get medical help right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms during treatment with NINLARO : • fever • bruising • nose bleeds • tiredness • decreased urination • Liver problems .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get these signs of a liver problem : • yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes • pain in your right upper stomach - area ( abdomen ) Other common side effects of NINLARO include : • low white blood cell counts ( neutropenia ) • bronchitis Tell your healthcare provider if you get new or worsening signs or symptoms of the following during treatment with NINLARO : • skin rash and pain ( shingles ) due to reactivation of the chicken pox virus ( herpes zoster ) • blurred vision or other changes in your vision , dry eye and pink eye ( conjunctivitis ) These are not all the possible side effects of NINLARO .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store NINLARO ?
• Store NINLARO at room temperature .
Do not store above 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze NINLARO .
• Store NINLARO capsules in the original packaging until just before each use .
• Ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider about how to dispose of ( throw away ) unused NINLARO .
Keep NINLARO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of NINLARO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use NINLARO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NINLARO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about NINLARO that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in NINLARO ?
Active ingredient : ixazomib Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , and talc Capsule shells : gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The 4 mg capsule shell contains red and yellow iron oxide .
The 3 mg capsule shell contains black iron oxide .
The 2 . 3 mg capsule shell contains red iron oxide .
The printing ink contains shellac , propylene glycol , potassium hydroxide , and black iron oxide .
Distributed by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc . , Lexington , MA 02421 NINLARO ® and the NINLARO Logo ® are registered trademarks of Millennium Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
© 2022 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , you may also go to www . NINLARO . com or call 1 - 844 - 617 - 6468 .
IXB349 R8 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mg Capsule Blister Pack Rx only NDC 63020 - 400 - 01 1 PRESS & HOLD HERE NINLARO ® ( ixazomib ) capsules 4 mg per capsule 1 Press & hold button 2 Pull out medication card Contains 1 Capsule Please read Package Insert before use .
Takeda 2 PULL OUT HERE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 mg Capsule Blister Pack Rx only NDC 63020 - 390 - 01 1 PRESS & HOLD HERE NINLARO ® ( ixazomib ) capsules 3 mg per capsule 1 Press & hold button 2 Pull out medication card Contains 1 Capsule Please read Package Insert before use .
Takeda 2 PULL OUT HERE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 3 mg Capsule Blister Pack Rx only NDC 63020 - 230 - 01 1 PRESS & HOLD HERE NINLARO ® ( ixazomib ) capsules 2 . 3 mg per capsule 1 Press & hold button 2 Pull out medication card Contains 1 Capsule Please read Package Insert before use .
Takeda 2 PULL OUT HERE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
