Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) ( one teaspoonful ) Ferrous Sulfate 220 mg ( 44 mg of elemental Iron ) Purpose Iron Supplement Uses a therapy for simple iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia Warnings Adverse Reactions : occasional gastrointestinal discomfort such as nausea dose related bowel effects ( such as constipation or diarrhea ) , gastrointestinal effects may be minimized by the administration with or immediately after meals and bowel effects reduced by giving the minimum effective dosage .
Do not use • more than directed The treatment of any anemic condition should be under the advice and supervision of a physician Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking oral Tetracycline antibiotics .
Oral iron products interfere with absorption of oral tetracycline antibiotics .
These products should not be taken within two hours of each other .
When using this product • may occasionally cause constipation or diarrhea • may cause temporary staining of the teeth ( this is less likely when diluted ) If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
Contains iron , which can be harmful or fatal to children in large doses .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Treatment of overdose : quickly induce vomiting , then feed eggs and milk until gastric lavage can be done .
Lavage with 1 percent Sodium Bicarbonate and administer an iron chelating agent ( such as deferoxamine mesylate ) BAL should not be used .
Gastric lavage should not be performed after the first hour because the danger of perforation due to gastric necrosis .
Measures to combat shock , dehydration , blood loss and respiratory failure may be necessary .
Directions Mix with water or fruit juice to avoid temporary staining of the teeth , do not mix with milk or wine - based vehicles Adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 teaspoonful daily , or as directed by a physician Children under 12 years of age Consult a physician Inactive ingredients citric acid , FD & C yellow # 6 , flavor , sodium benzoate , sucrose and water .
Other information • • Store in tight , light - resistant container at room temperature PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
