Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep • nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • diabetes • high blood pressure • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • cough comes back , or occurs with fever rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in a 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • mL = milliliter • adults and children 12 years of age and older : 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • each 20 mL contains : sodium 14 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , EDTA disodium , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , trisodium citrate dihydate , xanthan gum Principal Display Panel * Compare to the active ingredients in Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® Severe Congestion & Cough Multi - Symptom Relief Mucus Relief Severe Congestion & Cough Dextromethorphan HBr Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin Chest Congestion & Mucus Phenylephrine HCl Stuffy Nose For Ages 12 + Distributed by CDMA Inc © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® Maximum Strength Severe Congestion & Cough .
Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
