TEP Sealed with printed neckband for your protection Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 years of age - do not use • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , zinc chloride , sodium benzoate , sucralose , flavor , sodium saccharin , blue 1 questions ?
call 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Disclaimer * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Ultraclean With Everfresh Technology - Arctic Mint .
DSP - TN - 15000 DSP - MO - 34 SDS - TN - 15012 Adverse Reactions Section MADE WITH PRIDE AND CARE FOR H - E - B , SAN ANTONIO , TX If you are n't completely pleased with this product , we ' ll be happy to replace it or refund your money .
You have our word on it .
principal display panel Compare to Listerine Ultraclean Arctic Mint Mouthwash H - E - B Iceberg Blue TARTAR CONTROL PLUS ANTIGINGIVITIS / ANTIPLAQUE MOUTHWASH • Helps Control Plaque That Leads To Gingivitis • Fights Plaque & Gingivitis • Long Lasting Clean Feel • Fresh Breath With Mouth Cooling Sensation 33 . 8 FL OZ ( 1 QT ) 1 L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
