Active Ingredients ( in each film coated tablet ) Purpose Dexbrompheniramine Maleate , USP ................
2 mg .................. Antihistamine Pseudeophedrine HCl , USP .................... 60 mg ..........................
Nasal Decogestant Uses • Temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold , hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • helps decongest sinus openings and sinus passages • Reduces swelling of nasal passages , shrinks swollen membranes , and temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • Temporarily alleviates the following symptoms due to hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) : runny nose , sneezing , itching of the nose or throat , itching and watery eyes .
Warnings : Ask a doctor before you use if you are • taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
Ask your doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • glaucoma • difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended dosage • excitability may occur , especially in children • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic beverages • alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleepiness occur • symptoms do not improve withing 7 days or occur with a fever Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Do not use if you are taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains MAOI ; ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Directions ; Do not exceed more than 4 tablets in any 24 - hour period or as directed by a doctor .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over Take one tablet every 4 to 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 / 2 tablet every 4 to 6 hours Children under 6 years of age Ask a doctor Other Information : Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 degree celsius ( 68 - 77 degree fahrenheit ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 degree celsius ( 59 - 86 degree fahrenheit ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Tamper evident by imprinted heat seal under cap .
Do not use if there is evidence of tampering .
Inactive Ingredients : Dicalcium Phosphate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Magnesium Stearate , Sodium Starch Glycolate type B , Purified Water , Red iron Oxide , Yellow Iron Oxide , Titanium Dioxide .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 595 - 5598 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
