Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose acne treatment Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Acne treatment and helps prevent new acne blemishes .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Inactive ingredients Water , poloxamer 407 , propylene glycol , PEG - 400 , laureth - 4 , menthol , bisabolol .
BRODA Acne Spot Treatment and Acne Treatment Pen Labels Tough on acne Gentle on your skin Anti - acne IntelliGel ™ BRODA Acne Spot Treatment Broda Acne Treatment Pen IntelliGel ™ Technology Suitable for sensitive skin Maximum strength with 2 % beta hydrox acid Forms TrueSkin invisible patch No peeling or flaking Wo n't dry your skin Alcohol - free Hydrogel NET WT .
0 . 071 oz .
( 2 g ) - 0 . 71 oz .
( 20 g ) Distributed by : Broda International , LLC 10 Barley Court Plainsboro , NJ 08536 Manufactured and packaged in the USA www . broda . com Patent pending BRODA ™ Anti - acne IntelliGel ™ Developed with a proprietary break - through IntellGel ™ technology that delivers maximum strength acne medication to effectively penetrate pores to clear most acne blemishes and help prevent new acne pimples .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
