1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EXSERVAN is indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) .
EXSERVAN is indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage : 50 mg twice daily , taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal ( 2 . 1 ) • Measure serum aminotransferases before and during treatment ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for EXSERVAN is 50 mg taken orally twice daily .
EXSERVAN should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Monitoring to Assess Safety Measure serum aminotransferases before and during treatment with EXSERVAN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients and / or caregivers to read the “ Instruction for Use ” carefully for complete directions on how to properly dose and administer EXSERVAN oral films .
Apply EXSERVAN on top of the tongue where it adheres and dissolves .
Do not cut or split the film .
Do not administer with liquids .
As the film dissolves , saliva should be swallowed in a normal manner , but the patient should refrain from chewing , spitting or talking .
Only one oral film should be taken at a time .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral film : 50 mg orange , rectangular - shaped , orally dissolving film with “ R50 ” printed in white on one side .
Oral Film : 50 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EXSERVAN is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to riluzole or to any of its components ( anaphylaxis has occurred ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to riluzole or to any of its components ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hepatic injury : Use of EXSERVAN is not recommended in patients with baseline elevations of serum aminotransferases greater than 5 times upper limit of normal ; discontinue EXSERVAN if there is evidence of liver dysfunction ( 5 . 1 ) • Neutropenia : Advise patients to report any febrile illness ( 5 . 2 ) • Interstitial lung disease : Discontinue EXSERVAN if interstitial lung disease develops ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hepatic Injury EXSERVAN can cause liver injury .
Cases of drug - induced liver injury , some of which were fatal , have been reported in patients taking riluzole .
Asymptomatic elevations of hepatic transaminases have also been reported , and in some patients have recurred upon rechallenge with riluzole .
In clinical studies , the incidence of elevations in hepatic transaminases was greater in riluzole - treated patients than in placebo - treated patients .
The incidence of elevations of ALT above 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) was 2 % in riluzole - treated patients .
Maximum increases in ALT occurred within 3 months after starting riluzole .
About 50 % and 8 % of riluzole - treated patients in pooled controlled efficacy studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) had at least one elevated ALT level above ULN and above 3 times ULN , respectively [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hepatic injury , every month for the first 3 months of treatment , and periodically thereafter .
The use of EXSERVAN is not recommended if patients develop hepatic transaminases levels greater than 5 times the ULN .
Discontinue EXSERVAN if there is evidence of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , elevated bilirubin ) .
Concomitant use with other hepatotoxic drugs may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Neutropenia EXSERVAN can cause neutropenia .
Cases of severe neutropenia ( absolute neutrophil count less than 500 per mm3 ) within the first 2 months of riluzole treatment have been reported .
Advise patients to report febrile illnesses .
5 . 3 Interstitial Lung Disease EXSERVAN can cause interstitial lung disease , including hypersensitivity pneumonitis .
Discontinue EXSERVAN immediately if interstitial lung disease develops .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hepatic Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Neutropenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Interstitial Lung Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than or equal to 5 % and greater than placebo ) were oral hypoesthesia , asthenia , nausea , decreased lung function , hypertension , and abdominal pain ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aquestive Therapeutics at 1 - 877 - 394 - 5045 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions in Controlled Clinical Trials of Riluzole Tablets In the placebo - controlled clinical trials in patients with ALS ( Study 1 and 2 ) , a total of 313 patients received riluzole tablets 50 mg twice daily [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions in the riluzole - treated patients ( in at least 5 % of patients and more frequently than on placebo ) were asthenia , nausea , decreased lung function , hypertension , and abdominal pain .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in the riluzole - treated patients were nausea , abdominal pain , constipation , and elevated ALT .
There was no difference in rates of adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in females and males .
However , the incidence of dizziness was higher in females ( 11 % ) than in males ( 4 % ) .
The adverse reaction profile was similar in older and younger patients .
There were insufficient data to determine if there were differences in the adverse reaction profile in different races .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of riluzole treated patients ( 50 mg twice daily ) in pooled Study 1 and 2 , and at a higher rate than placebo .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo - Controlled Trials ( Studies 1 and 2 ) in Patients with ALS RILUZOLE Tablets 50 mg twice daily ( N = 313 ) % Placebo ( N = 320 ) % Asthenia 19 12 Nausea 16 11 Decreased lung function 10 9 Hypertension 5 4 Abdominal pain 5 4 Vomiting 4 2 Arthralgia 4 3 Dizziness 4 3 Dry mouth 4 3 Insomnia 4 3 Pruritus 4 3 Tachycardia 3 1 Flatulence 3 2 Increased cough 3 2 Peripheral edema 3 2 Urinary tract infection 3 2 Circumoral paresthesia 2 0 Somnolence 2 1 Vertigo 2 1 Eczema 2 1 Additional Adverse Reaction with EXSERVAN In an open - label pharmacokinetic study in healthy subjects ( n = 32 ) , oral hypoesthesia was observed in 38 % of subjects taking EXSERVAN , compared to no subjects taking riluzole tablets , under fasting conditions .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of riluzole .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Acute hepatitis and icteric toxic hepatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Renal tubular impairment • Pancreatitis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong to moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors : Coadministration may increase EXSERVAN - associated adverse reactions ( 7 . 1 ) • Strong to moderate CYP1A2 inducers : Coadministration may result in decreased efficacy ( 7 . 2 ) • Hepatotoxic drugs : EXSERVAN - treated patients that take other hepatotoxic drugs may be at increased risk for hepatotoxicity ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Agents that may Increase Riluzole Blood Concentrations CYP1A2 Inhibitors Co - administration of EXSERVAN ( a CYP1A substrate ) with CYP1A2 inhibitors was not evaluated in a clinical trial ; however , in vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely .
The concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors ( e . g . , ciprofloxacin , enoxacin , fluvoxamine , methoxsalen , mexiletine , oral contraceptives , thiabendazole , vemurafenib , zileuton ) with EXSERVAN may increase the risk of EXSERVAN - associated adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Agents that may Decrease Riluzole Plasma Concentrations CYP1A2 Inducers Co - administration of EXSERVAN ( a CYP1A substrate ) with CYP1A2 inducers was not evaluated in a clinical trial ; however , in vitro findings suggest a decrease in riluzole exposure is likely .
Lower exposures may result in decreased efficacy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Hepatotoxic Drugs Clinical trials in ALS patients excluded patients on concomitant medications which were potentially hepatotoxic ( e . g . , allopurinol , methyldopa , sulfasalazine ) .
EXSERVAN - treated patients who take other hepatotoxic drugs may be at an increased risk for hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no studies of riluzole in pregnant women , and case reports have been inadequate to inform the drug - associated risk .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
In studies in which riluzole was administered orally to pregnant animals , developmental toxicity ( decreased embryofetal / offspring viability , growth , and functional development ) was observed at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
Based on these results , women should be advised of a possible risk to the fetus associated with use of EXSERVAN during pregnancy .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of riluzole ( 3 , 9 , or 27 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in decreases in fetal growth ( body weight and length ) at the high dose .
The mid dose , a no - effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity , is approximately equal to the recommended human daily dose ( RHDD , 100 mg ) on a mg / m2 basis .
When riluzole was administered orally ( 3 , 10 , or 60 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis , embryofetal mortality was increased at the high dose and fetal body weight was decreased and morphological variations increased at all but the lowest dose tested .
The no - effect dose ( 3 mg / kg / day ) for embryofetal developmental toxicity is less than the RHDD on a mg / m2 basis .
Maternal toxicity was observed at the highest dose tested in rat and rabbit .
When riluzole was orally administered ( 3 , 8 , or 15 mg / kg / day ) to male and female rats prior to and during mating and to female rats throughout gestation and lactation , increased embryofetal mortality and decreased postnatal offspring viability , growth , and functional development were observed at the high dose .
The mid dose , a no - effect dose for pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity , is approximately equal to the RHDD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of riluzole in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Riluzole or its metabolites have been detected in milk of lactating rat .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for EXSERVAN and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from EXSERVAN or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential In rats , oral administration of riluzole resulted in decreased fertility indices and increases in embryolethality [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical studies of riluzole tablets , 30 % of patients were 65 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with mild [ Child - Pugh ' s ( CP ) score A ] or moderate ( CP score B ) hepatic impairment had increases in AUC compared to patients with normal hepatic function .
Thus , patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment may be at increased of adverse reactions .
The impact of severe hepatic impairment on riluzole exposure is unknown .
Use of EXSERVAN is not recommended in patients with baseline elevations of serum aminotransferases greater than 5 times upper limit of normal or evidence of liver dysfunction ( e . g . , elevated bilirubin ) [ Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Japanese Patients Japanese patients are more likely to have higher riluzole concentrations .
Consequently , the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in Japanese patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Reported symptoms of overdose following ingestion of riluzole tablets ranging from 1 . 5 to 3 grams ( 30 to 60 times the recommended dose ) included acute toxic encephalopathy , coma , drowsiness , memory loss , and methemoglobinemia .
No specific antidote for the treatment of EXSERVAN overdose is available .
For current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage , contact a certified poison control center .
11 DESCRIPTION Riluzole is a member of the benzothiazole class .
The chemical designation for riluzole is 2 - amino - 6 - ( trifluoromethoxy ) benzothiazole .
Its molecular formula is C8H5F3N2OS , and its molecular weight is 234 . 2 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Riluzole is a white to slightly yellow powder that is very soluble in dimethylformamide , dimethylsulfoxide , and methanol ; freely soluble in dichloromethane ; sparingly soluble in 0 . 1 N HCl ; and very slightly soluble in water and in 0 . 1 N NaOH .
Each EXSERVAN oral film contains 50 mg of riluzole and the following inactive ingredients : FD & C yellow # 6 , fructose , glycerin , glycerol monooleate , hypromellose , natural honey flavor , natural & artificial lemon , polacrilex resin , polyethylene oxide , polysaccharide , sucralose , xanthan gum , and xylitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which riluzole exerts its therapeutic effects in patients with ALS is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The clinical pharmacodynamics of riluzole have not been determined in humans .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics A pharmacokinetic study in healthy adult subjects under fasting conditions at 50 mg dose level demonstrated similar bioavailability for riluzole from EXSERVAN and riluzole tablets .
Table 2 displays the pharmacokinetic parameters of riluzole .
Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetics of Riluzole1Absorption Bioavailability ( oral ) Approximately 60 % Dose Proportionality Linear over a dose range of 25 mg to 100 mg every 12 hours ( 1 / 2 to 2 times the recommended dosage ) Food effect2 AUC ↓ 15 % and Cmax ↓ 45 % ( high fat meal ) Time to peak plasma concentration ( Median ) 2 Under fasted state : 1 hour ; and under fed state ( high - fat meal ) : 1 . 5 hours Distribution Plasma Protein Binding 96 % ( Mainly to albumin and lipoproteins ) Elimination Elimination half - life • 12 hours ( CV = 35 % ) • The high interindividual variability in the clearance of riluzole is potentially attributable to variability of CYP1A2 .
The clinical implications are not known .
Accumulation Approximately 2 - fold Metabolism Fraction metabolized ( % dose ) At least 88 % Primary metabolic pathway ( s ) [ in vitro ] • Oxidation : CYP1A2 • Direct and sequential glucoronidation : UGT - HP4 Active Metabolites Some metabolites appear pharmacologically active in vitro , but the clinical implications are not known .
Excretion Primary elimination pathways ( % dose ) • Feces : 5 % • Urine : 90 % ( 2 % unchanged riluzole ) 1 Unless otherwise stated , information in this table is based on pharmacokinetic studies of riluzole tablets 2 Information specific to EXSERVAN Specific Populations Hepatic Impairment Compared with healthy volunteers , the AUC of riluzole was approximately 1 . 7 - fold greater in patients with mild chronic hepatic impairment ( CP score A ) and approximately 3 - fold greater in patients with moderate chronic hepatic impairment ( CP score B ) .
The pharmacokinetics of riluzole have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( CP score C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Race The clearance of riluzole was 50 % lower in male Japanese subjects than in Caucasian subjects , after normalizing for body weight [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Gender The mean AUC of riluzole was approximately 45 % higher in female patients than male patients .
Smokers The clearance of riluzole in tobacco smokers was 20 % greater than in nonsmokers .
Geriatric Patients and Patients with Moderate to Severe Renal Impairment Age 65 years or older and moderate to severe renal impairment do not have a meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of riluzole .
The pharmacokinetics of riluzole in patients undergoing hemodialysis are unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Riluzole and warfarin are highly bound to plasma proteins .
In vitro , riluzole did not show any displacement of warfarin from plasma proteins .
Riluzole binding to plasma proteins was unaffected by warfarin , digoxin , imipramine and quinine at high therapeutic concentrations in vitro .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Riluzole was not carcinogenic in mice or rats when administered for 2 years at daily oral doses up to 20 and 10 mg / kg / day , respectively , which are approximately equal to the recommended human daily dose ( RHDD , 100 mg ) on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Riluzole was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) , mouse lymphoma tk , chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes ) , and in vivo ( rat cytogenetic and mouse micronucleus ) assays .
N - hydroxyriluzole , the major active metabolite of riluzole , was positive for clastogenicity in the in vitro mouse lymphoma tk assay and in the in vitro micronucleus assay using the same mouse lymphoma cell line .
N - hydroxyriluzole was negative in the HPRT gene mutation assay , the Ames assay ( with and without rat or hamster S9 ) , the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility When riluzole ( 3 , 8 , or 15 mg / kg ) was administered orally to male and female rats prior to and during mating and continuing in females throughout gestation and lactation , fertility indices were decreased and embryolethality was increased at the high dose .
This dose was also associated with maternal toxicity .
The mid dose , a no - effect dose for effects on fertility and early embryonic development , is approximately equal to the RHDD on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of EXSERVAN is based upon a relative bioavailability and food - effect study in healthy subjects comparing oral riluzole tablets to EXSERVAN oral film [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The efficacy of riluzole was demonstrated in two studies ( Study 1 and 2 ) that evaluated riluzole tablets 50 mg twice daily in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) .
Both studies included patients with either familial or sporadic ALS , a disease duration of less than 5 years , and a baseline forced vital capacity greater than or equal to 60 % of normal .
Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical study that enrolled 155 patients with ALS .
Patients were randomized to receive riluzole tablets 50 mg twice daily ( n = 77 ) or placebo ( n = 78 ) and were followed for at least 13 months ( up to a maximum duration of 18 months ) .
The clinical outcome measure was time to tracheostomy or death .
The time to tracheostomy or death was longer for patients receiving riluzole tablets compared to placebo .
There was an early increase in survival in patients receiving riluzole tablets compared to placebo .
Figure 1 displays the survival curves for time to death or tracheostomy .
The vertical axis represents the proportion of individuals alive without tracheostomy at various times following treatment initiation ( horizontal axis ) .
Although these survival curves were not statistically significantly different when evaluated by the analysis specified in the study protocol ( Logrank test p = 0 . 12 ) , the difference was found to be significant by another appropriate analysis ( Wilcoxon test p = 0 . 05 ) .
As seen in Figure 1 , the study showed an early increase in survival in patients given riluzole tablets .
Among the patients in whom the endpoint of tracheostomy or death was reached during the study , the difference in median survival between the riluzole tablets 50 mg twice daily and placebo groups was approximately 90 days .
Figure 1 .
Time to Tracheostomy or Death in ALS Patients in Study 1 ( Kaplan - Meier Curves ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical study that enrolled 959 patients with ALS .
Patients were randomized to riluzole tablets 50 mg twice daily ( n = 236 ) or placebo ( n = 242 ) and were followed for at least 12 months ( up to a maximum duration of 18 months ) .
The clinical outcome measure was time to tracheostomy or death .
The time to tracheostomy or death was longer for patients receiving riluzole tablets compared to placebo .
Figure 2 displays the survival curves for time to death or tracheostomy for patients randomized to either riluzole tablets 100 mg per day or placebo .
Although these survival curves were not statistically significantly different when evaluated by the analysis specified in the study protocol ( Logrank test p = 0 . 076 ) , the difference was found to be significant by another appropriate analysis ( Wilcoxon test p = 0 . 05 ) .
Not displayed in Figure 2 are the results of riluzole tablets 50 mg per day ( one - half of the recommended daily dose ) , which could not be statistically distinguished from placebo , or the results of riluzole tablets 200 mg per day ( two times the recommended daily dose ) , which were not distinguishable from the 100 mg per day results .
Among the patients in whom the endpoint of tracheostomy or death was reached during the study , the difference in median survival between riluzole tablets and placebo was approximately 60 days .
Although riluzole tablets improved survival in both studies , measures of muscle strength and neurological function did not show a benefit .
Figure 2 .
Time to Tracheostomy or Death in ALS Patients in Study 2 ( Kaplan - Meier Curves ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 15 . 1 How Supplied Each EXSERVAN oral film is an orange , rectangular - shaped film that contains 50 mg of riluzole with “ R50 ” printed in white ink on one side .
Each film is packaged in a pouch .
NDC 10094 - 350 - 60 : 50 mg oral film , carton of 60 pouches 15 . 2 Storage and Handling Store EXSERVAN oral film pouches at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) and protect from bright light .
16 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Administration Instructions Instruct patients to place EXSERVAN on the top of the tongue where it will adhere and dissolve .
Do not cut or split the film .
Advise patients to not administer liquid , but saliva should be swallowed in a normal manner .
Instruct patients to not chew , spit , or talk while EXSERVAN is dissolving .
Hepatic Injury Advise patients that EXSERVAN can cause liver injury , which can be fatal .
Inform patients of the clinical signs or symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction ( e . g . , unexplained nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , fatigue , anorexia , or jaundice and / or dark urine ) and to contact a healthcare provider promptly if these signs or symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Neutropenia Advise patients that EXSERVAN can cause neutropenia , and to report to their healthcare provider if they have a fever [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) . ]
Interstitial Lung Disease Advise patients that EXSERVAN can cause interstitial lung disease , and to report to their healthcare provider if they have respiratory symptoms ( e . g . , dry cough and difficult or labored breathing ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during EXSERVAN therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are breastfeeding or intend to breastfeed during EXSERVAN therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Aquestive Therapeutics Warren , NJ 07059 Instructions for Use EXSERVAN ™ ( ex - ser - van ) ( riluzole ) oral film Read this Instructions for Use before you start using EXSERVAN and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
The information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions about how to use EXSERVAN the right way .
Important Information for Patient and Caregiver : • Do not take EXSERVAN until : ○ you have read and understand these instructions .
○ you have reviewed the steps with your healthcare provider on how to take it .
○ you know the right time , how often , and the dose to take .
○ you feel comfortable with how to use EXSERVAN .
• If you are not sure about giving treatment or when to give treatment , call your healthcareprovider before using EXSERVAN .
• EXSERVAN should be taken at least one hour before or two hours after a meal .
How should I store EXSERVAN ?
• Store EXSERVAN at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep EXSERVAN in the foil pouch until you are ready to use .
Use right away after opening foil pouch .
Do not cut or split the film • Protect from bright light .
• Any films that were spit out or not used after opening should be flushed down the toilet or placed in a sink and rinsed with water until film is no longer visible .
• Keep EXSERVAN and all medicines out of the reach ofchildren .
Step 1 .
Before Giving EXSERVAN • Ensure hands are clean and dry before handling EXSERVAN so the film does not stick to your fingers .
• Check expiration date printed on foil pouch before use as shown in Figure .
Do not use EXSERVAN if expired .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Open Pouch • Fold foil pouch along solid line at top as shown in Figure 2 .
• While keeping top of pouch folded over at solid line , tear down at the slit along the arrow on the side of the pouch to open .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Remove Film • Remove EXSERVAN film from foil pouch .
Each pouch contains one dose of EXSERVAN .
Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 Step 4 .
Place Film on Tongue • Place EXSERVAN film on top of the tongue as shown in Figure 4 .
The film will stick to the tongue and begin to dissolve .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 Step 5 .
Close Mouth and Swallow Saliva Normally • Close mouth as shown in Figure 5 and swallow saliva normally as EXSERVAN dissolves .
• Do not take EXSERVAN with liquids • Do not chew , spit or talk while EXSERVAN dissolves .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 • Wash your hands after handling EXSERVAN .
• Throw away the empty foil pouch in the regular trash .
Manufactured by : Aquestive Therapeutics Warren , NJ 07059 For more information or support about EXSERVAN : Call 1 - 833 - AQUESTV ( 1 - 833 - 278 - 3788 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10094 - 350 - 01 Exservan ( riluzole ) oral film 50 mg Rx Only 1 Oral Film [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10094 - 350 - 60 Exservan ( riluzole ) oral film 50 mg Rx Only 60 Pouches each containing 1 Oral Film [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
