Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Prenaissance Capsules are a prescription prenatal / postnatal multivitamin / multimineral softgel capsule with DHA .
Each softgel is brown in color , opaque and imprinted with “ 341 ” on one side .
EACH SOFTGEL CONTAINS : Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid , USP ) 28 mg Calcium ( tricalcium phosphate , NF ) 160 mg Iron ( ferrous fumarate , USP ) 29 mg Vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol , USP ) 800 IU Vitamin E ( d - alpha tocopherol , USP ) 30 IU Vitamin B6 ( pyridoxine HCl , USP ) 25 mg Folic Acid , USP 1 . 25 mg DHA ( docosahexaenoic acid ) 325 mg Docusate Sodium , USP 55 mg OTHER INGREDIENTS : gelatin , glycerin , purified water , soybean oil , lecithin , yellow bees wax , natural creamy orange flavor , titanium dioxide , FD & C red # 40 , ethyl vanillin , FD & C yellow # 5 , FD & C blue # 1 .
INDICATIONS : Prenaissance Capsules are a multivitamin / multimineral nutritional supplement with DHA indicated for use in the dietary management of patients with nutritional deficiencies or are in need of nutritional supplementation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Do not take this product if you are presently taking mineral oil , unless directed by a physician .
WARNING : Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids ( such as DHA ) per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects , including an increased bleeding time and International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) .
Administration of omega - 3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired predisposition to bleeding .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
PRECAUTIONS : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
Folic acid in doses above 1 . 0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
CAUTION : Exercise caution to ensure that the prescribed dosage of DHA does not exceed 1 gram ( 1000 mg ) daily .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Usual adult dose is 1 ( one ) softgel daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Prenaissance Capsules are supplied in child - resistant bottles of 30 softgels ( NDC # 42192 - 341 - 30 ) .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 0411 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Softgels NDC 42192 - 341 - 30 Prenaissance Capsules Rx Prenatal Vitamin and DHA Rx only 30 Softgels Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
