Active ingredients ( in each tablet ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and makes coughs more productive .
• temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • cough accopanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not use more than directed .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours • take with a full glass of water • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • take 1 tablet every 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • each tablet contains : sodium 20 mg low sodium • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel Mucus Relief DM Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant • Controls Cough • Thins and loosens mucus Tablets KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Manufactured by : Avema Pharma Solutions 10400 NW 29 th Terrace Miami , FL 33172 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
