Drug Facts Active Ingredients SHAKE BEFORE USE Camphor 3 . 18 % Purpose Topical analgesic Keep out of reach of children Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Uses Temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of joints and muscles associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , sprains .
Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • other than as directed • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product • on a child under 12 with arthritis - like conditions When using this product : • avoid contact with eyes , wounds , mucus membranes , irritated skin • do not bandage tightly stop use and ask a doctor if : • condition worsens , or if symptoms persists for more than 7 days or clears up and occurs again within a few days • skin redness or excessive irritation of the skin develops Pregnant or breast - feeding If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • Store in a cool dry place 68 - 77 F ( 20 - 25 C ) • Minor separation may occur , shake well before using .
Inactive ingredients Acrylamide / Sodium Acryloydimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Amica Oil , Behentrimonium Methosulfate , Caprylic / Capric Trigyceride , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Cholecalciferol , Chondroitin Sulfate , Coenzyme Q 10 , Corn Oil , Deionized Water , Emu Oil , Glucosamine Sulfate , Glycerin , Green ( Camellia Sinensis ) Tea Extract , Isohexadecane , Peppermint Oil * , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 80 , SD Alcohol , Shark Cartilage , Shea Butter , Sorbic Acid , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Yucca ( Glauca ) Root Extract .
* A source of natural metnol Questions ?
Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 684 - 9312 Weekdays between 9 am to 5 pm CST Distributed by Pain Management Laboratories , Los Fresnos , TX Made in the USA Product Label Dr . Paul Nemiroff ' s Joint Formula 88 MAX PLUS Pain Relief Cream NEW MAX PLUS PROFESSIONAL STRENGTH Now with VITAMINS C , D , E - More ANTIOXIDANTS and BOTANICALS Joint Formula 88 MAX PLUS - " It ' s the science that makes the difference ! "
Dr . Paul Nemiroff ' s Joint Formula 88 MAX PLUS provides deep penetrating pain relief and is effective in providing temporary relief from minor arthritis , simple backache , muscle aches , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Specifically , the ingredients in Joint Formula 88 MAX PLUS are clinically shown to work .
Joint Formula 88 MAX PLUS combines the science and power of camphor , natural menthol , glucosamine , chondroitin , aloe , emu oil , shark cartilage , arnica , yucca extract , more vitamins C , D , E to create a fast acting and easy - to - apply cream with no greasy residue .
AND ... IT REALLY WORKS !
Dr . Paul M . Nemiroff , PhD . , M . D . F . A . C . S . Nationally recognized Surgeon Award winning Television Medical Correspondent Recipient of " Humanitarian of the Year Award " for donating his time to operate of refugees Author of over 100 articles , book chapters , and published research papers .
Dr . Nemiroff is an accomplished head and neck cancer and reconstructive surgeon and received his M . D . from UCLA Medical School with surgical residencies at UCLA - Cedars - Sinai and the University of Florida .
Prior to becoming a surgeon he obtained a Ph . D . from Purdue University .
He has received over a dozen national awards including Best Surgical Research of the Year from the Society of Head and Neck Surgeons , and awards from the American Cancer Society .
He has done hundreds of " on air " medical pieces as a medical correspondent for CBS and ABC television affiliates .
Throughout his career , he has performed more than 10 , 000 surgeries .
Net Wt 4 . 5 oz .
( 126 grams ) Plus 1 . 5 oz .
( 42 grams ) Travel Size [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
