CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) is a keratolytic emollient , which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram of CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) contains 45 % Urea , camphor , edetate disodium , eucalyptus oil , hydroxyethyl cellulose , menthol , methyl paraben , propylene glycol and purified water .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix , which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas .
Urea also hydrates and gently dissolves the intercellular matrix of the nail plate , which can result in the softening and eventual debridement of the nail plate .
The mechanism of action of topically applied Urea is not yet known .
For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , devitalized and ingrown nails .
Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use .
Pregnancy Category B . Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus , however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
It is not known whether or not this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) is administered to a nursing woman .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear on discontinuing the medication .
DIRECTIONS FOR NAILS : Apply CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) to diseased or damaged nail tissue twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
DIRECTIONS FOR SKIN : Apply CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) to affected area ( s ) twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
CEM - UreaTM ( 45 % Urea ) 20 mL tube , NDC 42546 - 100 - 20 Store at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
Protect from freezing .
NDC 42546 - 100 - 20 CEM - Urea Pre - Filled Applicator 45 % urea In a vehicle containing Menthol , Camphor , and Eucalyptus Oil Rx only 0 . 68 FL OZ ( 20 mL ) PruGen , Inc .
Pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
