Drug Facts Active ingredient Carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % Purpose Earwax removal aid Use for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen and remove excessive earwax .
Warnings Do not use • if you have ear drainage or discharge , ear pain , irritation or rash in the ear , or are dizzy ; consult a doctor .
• if you have an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear drum or after ear surgery unless directed by a doctor .
• for more than four days .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if excessive earwax remains after use of this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY .
• adults and children over 12 years of age : tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear .
Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal .
Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear .
Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor .
Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently ﬂushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information • tamper evident : Do not use if outer carton is open , torn or missing .
• store bottle in the outer carton and keep the tip on bottle when not in use • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • drops foam in contact with earwax due to release of oxygen .
You may experience a “ crackling ” sound Inactive ingredients Glycerin , Lauroyl Sarcosine , Propylene Glycol Questions ?
+ 1 - 844 - 324 - 5669 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Gently Removes Excessive Earwax Safe & Easy to Use Dist .
by : Tilco Trading PTE . LTD . 491 B River Valley Road # 15 - 01 , Valley Point , Singapore - 248373 Made in USA www . tilcare . com / customers @ tilcare . com Carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
