0 . 2 % Neutral Sodium Fluoride Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION PreviDent ® Rinse brand of 0 . 2 % neutral sodium fluoride is a mint - flavored , neutral , aqueous solution .
Active Ingredient Sodium Fluoride 0 . 2 % ( w / v ) Inactive Ingredients Benzoic Acid , Flavor , Glycerin , Poloxamer 338 , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Benzoate , Water , FD & C Blue No . 1 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of sodium fluoride increases tooth resistance to acid dissolution , promotes remineralization , and inhibits the cariogenic microbial process .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE A dental caries preventive , for weekly self - applied topical use .
Weekly rinsing with a neutral 0 . 2 % sodium fluoride solution protects against dental caries in adults and pediatric patients .
PreviDent ® Rinse provides a ready - to - use preparation for convenient administration and favorable compliance .
May be used in areas where drinking water is fluoridated since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorosis .
( See WARNINGS for exception . )
CONTRAINDIACTIONS Do not use in patients with dysphagia .
Do not use in pediatric patients under age 6 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
WARNINGS Keep out of reach of infants and children .
Pediatric patients under age 12 should be supervised in the use of this product .
Patients under age 6 require special supervision to prevent repeated swallowing of rinse since they frequently swallow significant amounts while rinsing .
Prolonged daily ingestion may result in dental fluorosis in patients under age 6 , especially if the water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm .
Read directions carefully before using .
DO NOT USE IF PRINTED NECK BAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING PRECAUTIONS General Not for systemic treatment .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenesis was found in mice or female rats treated with fluoride at doses ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported in male rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
In another study , no carcinogenesis was observed in rats treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Epidemiological data provide no credible evidence for an association between fluoride , either naturally occurring or added to drinking water , and risk of human cancer .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems but has been associated with chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than expected human exposures .
Some in vivo report chromosome damage in rodents while other studies using similar protocols report negative results .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans has not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B It has been shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect litter size or fetal weight and did not increase frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure to fluoride during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in milk , and caution should be exercised when products containing fluoride are administered to a nursing woman .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Pediatric Use The use of PreviDent ® Rinse as a weekly caries preventive in pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years is supported by adequate and well - controlled clinical studies in students aged 6 to 12 years . 1 - 4 Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established .
Please refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of 1 . 1 % ( w / v ) sodium fluoride , 15 percent were 65 and over , while 1 percent were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with mucositis , gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to flavor present in formulation .
Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies are rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis , and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) has been ingested , give calcium ( e . g . , milk ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) has been ingested , induce vomiting , give orally soluble calcium ( e . g . , milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . , more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) , induce vomiting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( 10 mL or two teaspoonfuls ) of PreviDent ® Rinse contains approximately 9 mg fluoride .
One 16 fl .
oz .
bottle contains approximately 429 mg fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For caries — Adults and pediatric patients over age 6 years , 2 teaspoons ( 10 mL ) .
Once a week , preferably at bedtime after thoroughly brushing the teeth , rinse vigorously around and between the teeth for one minute , then expectorate .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
For maximum benefit , do not eat , drink , or rinse mouth for at least 30 minutes afterwards .
HOW SUPPLIED Plastic bottle with child - resistant closure containing 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) ( NDC 0126 - 0033 - 16 ) .
STORAGE Store at Controlled Room Temperature , 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) .
REFERENCES 1 .
Driscoll WS , et al .
Caries - preventive effects on school children daily and weekly fluoride mouthrinsing in a fluoridated community : final results after 30 months .
JADA .
1982 ; 105 : 1010 - 1013 .
2 .
American Dental Association , Accepted Dental Therapeutics , Ed , 40 , Chicago ( 1984 ) : 403 .
3 .
Ibid . , p 405 - 407 .
4 .
L . W . Ripa , G . S . Leske , and A . Sposato , Supervised Weekly Rinsing with a 0 . 2 % Neutral NaF solution : Final Results of a Demonstration Program After Six School Years J . Pub .
Health Dent . , 43 ( 1983 ) : 53 - 62 .
Colgate Oral Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , a subsidiary of Colgate - Palmolive Company New York , NY 10022 U . S . A . Questions / Comments : 1 - 800 - 962 - 2345 www . colgateprofessional . com P9913793 Rev . Jan 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC 0126 - 0033 - 16 ALCOHOL FREE Colgate ® PreviDent ® Rinse 0 . 2 % Neutral Sodium Fluoride Reduces caries up to 55 % 1 COOL MINT KEEP OUT OF REACH OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 16 FL OZ ( 1 PT ) 473 mL Rx ONLY P9923798 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
