Active ingredient : DIMETHICONE Inactive ingredients : Water , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Glycereth - 26 , Alcohol , Cyclomethicone , Glyceryl , Polymethacrylate , Butylene Glycol Dicaprylate / Dicaprate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone , Crosspolymer , Sodium Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Phenoxyethanol , Isononyl Isononanoate , Caprylic Capric Triglyceride , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Hematite Extract , Topaz , Aluminum Silicate , Zeolite , Olivine Extract , Anthemis Nobilis Flower Extact , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Ceramide 3 , Allantoin , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Disoium EDTA , Chaenomeles Sinensis Fruit Extract , Sea Water , Methyl Paraen , Flavor Purpose : It makes an emolient skin by eliminating the psoriasis and itching caused by the keratose in skin .
It prevents the evaporation by forming a film on the skin , and then it makes skin smooth and moist by increasing the moisture constantly .
It helps to vitalize and animate the skin by holding of the water in skin .
It helps to reduce the skin ' s irritation .
It helps to lessen the sensitive skin .
Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of the reach of babies and children .
Indication and usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
Use it in the morning and evening after applying the Esopinio Wrinkless Plus CT - I .
Dosage and administration : Take up about 1 . 2 g - 1 . 5 g of it and smooth over the entire face .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
