1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Altafluor Benox ( fluorescein sodium and benoxinate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % is indicated for ophthalmic procedures requiring a disclosing agent in combination with a topical ophthalmic anesthetic agent .
Altafluor Benox ( fluorescein sodium and benoxinate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % is a combination disclosing agent and local ester anesthetic indicated for procedures requiring a disclosing agent in combination with a topical ophthalmic anesthetic .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill 1 to 2 drops of Altafluor Benox in the eye as needed .
Instill 1 to 2 drops topically in the eye as needed to achieve adequate anesthesia .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS : Altafluor Benox is a yellow to orange - red ophthalmic solution containing fluorescein sodium 2 . 5 mg / mL ( 0 . 25 % ) and benoxinate hydrochloride 4 mg / mL ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Ophthalmic solution containing fluorescein sodium 2 . 5 mg / mL ( 0 . 25 % ) and benoxinate hydrochloride 4 mg / mL ( 0 . 4 % ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS : Altafluor Benox is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Known hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Corneal toxicity : Prolonged use or abuse may lead to corneal epithelial toxicity and manifest as epithelial defects which may progress to permanent corneal damage .
( 5 . 1 ) • Corneal injury : Patients should not touch the eye for approximately 20 minutes after using anesthetic as accidental injuries can occur due to insensitivity of the eye .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Corneal Toxicity Prolonged use or abuse may lead to corneal epithelial toxicity which may manifest as epithelial defects and progress to permanent corneal opacification with accompanying visual loss .
5 . 2 Corneal Injury Due to Insensitivity Patient should not touch the eye for approximately 20 minutes after using this anesthetic as accidental injuries can occur due to insensitivity of the eye .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following ocular adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Corneal Toxicity [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Corneal Injury due to Insensitivity [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of fluorescein sodium and benoxinate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % : ocular hyperemia , burning , stinging , eye irritation , blurred vision and punctate keratitis .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common ocular adverse events are : stinging , burning and conjunctival redness .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Altaire Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 258 - 2471 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on the use of Altafluor Benox in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risk .
Adequate animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with fluorescein sodium and / or benoxinate hydrochloride .
Altafluor Benox should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of fluorescein sodium or benoxinate hydrochloride in human milk after ocular administration of Altafluor Benox , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Altafluor Benox and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Altafluor Benox .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Altafluor Benox have been established for pediatric patients .
Use of Altafluor Benox is supported in pediatric patients by evidence from adequate and well controlled studies .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Altafluor Benox ( fluorescein sodium and benoxinate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % is a sterile disclosing agent in combination with a short - acting ester anesthetic for topical ophthalmic use .
Fluorescein sodium is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H10Na2O5 Mol .
Wt .
376 . 27 Chemical Name : Spiro [ isobenzofuran - 1 ( 3 H ) , 9 ’ - 9 [ 9 H ] xanthene ] - 3 - one , 3 ’ , 6 ’ dihydroxy , disodium salt .
Benoxinate hydrochloride is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C17H28N2O3 • HCl Mol .
Wt .
344 . 88 Chemical Name : 2 - ( Diethylamino ) etyl 4 - amino - 3 - butoxybenzoate monohydrochloride .
Each mL contains : Actives : fluorescein sodium 2 . 5 mg ( 0 . 25 % ) equivalent to fluorescein 2 . 2 mg ( 0 . 22 % ) , benoxinate hydrochloride 4 mg ( 0 . 4 % ) equivalent to benoxinate 3 . 6 mg ( 0 . 36 % ) ; Inactives : povidone , hydrochloric acid , boric acid , sodium hydroxide , water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 3 – 5 . 3 ) .
Preservative : chlorobutanol 11 mg ( 1 . 1 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This product is the combination of a disclosing agent with a rapidly acting ester anesthetic of short duration .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Maximal corneal anesthesia usually occurs in about 5 - 45 seconds and lasts about 20 minutes after single administration .
The anesthetic effect may be extended by subsequent administration 10 - 20 minutes after the last administration .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Altafluor Benox have not been conducted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Controlled clinical studies in adults and pediatric patients have demonstrated that topical administration of fluorescein sodium and benoxinate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % enables visualization and corneal anesthesia sufficient to enable applanation tonometry , tear fluid dynamics evaluation and short conjunctival and corneal procedures .
Maximal corneal anesthesia usually occurs in about 5 - 45 seconds and lasts about 20 minutes after single administration .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Altafluor Benox ( fluorescein sodium and benoxinate hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % is a sterile , yellow to orange - red solution supplied in a 5 mL glass bottle with a sterilized dropper .
NDC # 59390 - 218 - 05 Storage : Store in refrigerator at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
After opening , Altafluor Benox can be stored up to one month if stored at room temperature or until the expiration date on the bottle if stored in refrigerated conditions .
Keep tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Accidental Injury Precaution Advise patients not to touch their eyes for approximately 20 minutes after application .
Their eyes will be insensitive due to the effect of the anesthetic , and care should be taken to avoid accidental injuries .
Rev . 12 / 2017 Manufactured by : ALTAIRE Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Aquebogue , NY 11931 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 59390 - 218 - 05 ALTAFLUOR BENOX Fluorescein Sodium and Benoxinate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 25 % / 0 . 4 % ( Sterile ) 5 mL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
