WARNING : RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred in some patients during and up to 24 hours after ELAPRASE infusions .
Anaphylaxis , presenting as respiratory distress , hypoxia , hypotension , urticaria and / or angioedema of throat or tongue have been reported to occur during and after ELAPRASE infusions , regardless of duration of the course of treatment .
Closely observe patients during and after ELAPRASE administration and be prepared to manage anaphylaxis .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and have them seek immediate medical care should symptoms occur .
Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute respiratory disease may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to hypersensitivity reactions , and require additional monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions , presenting as respiratory distress , hypoxia , hypotension , urticaria and / or angioedema of throat or tongue have occurred in some patients during and up to 24 hours after ELAPRASE infusions .
Closely observe patients during and after ELAPRASE administration and be prepared to manage anaphylaxis .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and have them seek immediate medical care should symptoms occur .
Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute respiratory disease may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to hypersensitivity reactions , and require additional monitoring .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 , 6 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ELAPRASE is indicated for patients with Hunter syndrome ( Mucopolysaccharidosis II , MPS II ) .
ELAPRASE has been shown to improve walking capacity in patients 5 years and older .
In patients 16 months to 5 years of age , no data are available to demonstrate improvement in disease - related symptoms or long term clinical outcome ; however , treatment with ELAPRASE has reduced spleen volume similarly to that of adults and children 5 years of age and older .
The safety and efficacy of ELAPRASE have not been established in pediatric patients less than 16 months of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
ELAPRASE is a hydrolytic lysosomal glycosaminoglycan ( GAG ) - specific enzyme indicated for patients with Hunter syndrome ( Mucopolysaccharidosis II , MPS II ) .
ELAPRASE has been shown to improve walking capacity in patients 5 years and older .
In patients 16 months to 5 years of age , no data are available to demonstrate improvement in disease - related symptoms or long term clinical outcome ; however , treatment with ELAPRASE has reduced spleen volume similarly to that of adults and children 5 years of age and older .
The safety and efficacy of ELAPRASE have not been established in pediatric patients less than 16 months of age ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 0 . 5 mg per kg of body weight administered once every week as an intravenous infusion ( 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dosage regimen of ELAPRASE is 0 . 5 mg per kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous infusion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
2 . 2 Preparation Instructions Prepare and use ELAPRASE according to the following steps using aseptic technique : • Determine the total volume of ELAPRASE to be administered and the number of vials needed based on the patient ' s weight and the recommended dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg .
Patient ' s weight ( kg ) × 0 . 5 mg per kg of ELAPRASE ÷ 2 mg per mL = Total mL of ELAPRASE Total mL of ELAPRASE ÷ 3 mL per vial = Total number of vials Round up to the next whole vial to determine the total number of vials needed .
Remove the required number of vials from the refrigerator to allow them to reach room temperature .
• Before withdrawing the ELAPRASE solution from the vial , visually inspect each vial for particulate matter and discoloration .
The ELAPRASE solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless .
Do not use if the solution is discolored or if there is particulate matter in the solution .
Do not shake the ELAPRASE solution .
• Withdraw the calculated volume of ELAPRASE from the appropriate number of vials .
• Add the calculated volume of ELAPRASE solution to a 100 mL bag of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP for intravenous infusion .
• Mix gently .
Do not shake the solution .
2 . 3 Administration Instructions Administer the diluted ELAPRASE solution to patients using a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with a low - protein - binding 0 . 2 micrometer ( µm ) in - line filter .
The total volume of infusion should be administered over a period of 3 hours , which may be gradually reduced to 1 hour if no hypersensitivity reactions are observed .
Patients may require longer infusion times if hypersensitivity reactions occur ; however , infusion times should not exceed 8 hours .
The initial infusion rate should be 8 mL per hour for the first 15 minutes .
If the infusion is well tolerated , the rate of infusion may be increased by 8 mL per hour increments every 15 minutes .
The infusion rate should not exceed 100 mL per hour .
The infusion rate may be slowed , temporarily stopped , or discontinued for that visit in the event of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
ELAPRASE should not be infused with other products in the infusion tubing .
2 . 4 Storage and Stability ELAPRASE does not contain preservatives ; therefore , after dilution with saline , the infusion bags should be used immediately .
If immediate use is not possible , the diluted solution should be stored refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours .
Other than during infusion , do not store the diluted ELAPRASE solution at room temperature .
Any unused product or waste material should be discarded and disposed of in accordance with local requirements .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 6 mg / 3 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) in single - use vials Injection : 6 mg / 3 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) in single - use vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis : Ensure that personnel administering product are adequately trained in cardio - pulmonary resuscitative measures , and have ready access to emergency medical services ( EMS ) ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Risk of Hypersensitivity , Serious Adverse Reactions , and Antibody Development in Hunter Syndrome Patients with Severe Genetic Mutations : Hunter syndrome patients aged 7 years and younger with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations experienced a higher incidence of hypersensitivity reactions , serious adverse reactions , and anti - idursulfase antibody development ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Risk of Acute Respiratory Complications : Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute febrile or respiratory illness may be at higher risk of life - threatening complications from hypersensitivity reactions .
Careful consideration should be given to the patient ' s clinical status prior to administration of ELAPRASE and consider delaying the ELAPRASE infusion ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred during and up to 24 hours after infusion .
Some of these reactions were life - threatening and included respiratory distress , hypoxia , hypotension , urticaria , and angioedema of the throat or tongue , regardless of duration of the course of treatment .
If anaphylactic or other acute reactions occur , immediately discontinue the infusion of ELAPRASE and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
When severe reactions have occurred during clinical trials , subsequent infusions were managed with antihistamine and / or corticosteroids prior to or during infusions , a slower rate of ELAPRASE infusion , and / or early discontinuation of the ELAPRASE infusion [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In clinical trials with ELAPRASE , 16 of 108 ( 15 % ) patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions during 26 of 8 , 274 infusions ( 0 . 3 % ) that involved adverse events in at least two of the following three body systems : cutaneous , respiratory , or cardiovascular .
Of these 16 patients , 11 experienced anaphylactic reactions during 19 of 8 , 274 infusions ( 0 . 2 % ) with symptoms of bronchospasm , cyanosis , dyspnea , erythema , edema ( facial and peripheral ) , flushing , rash , respiratory distress , urticaria , vomiting , and wheezing .
In postmarketing reports , patients receiving ELAPRASE experienced anaphylactic reactions up to several years after initiating treatment .
Some patients were reported to have repeated anaphylactic events over a two - to four - month time period .
Medical management included treatment with antihistamines , inhaled beta - adrenergic agonists , corticosteroids , oxygen , and vasopressors .
Treatment was discontinued for some patients , while others continued treatment with premedication and a slower infusion rate .
Due to the potential for severe reactions , appropriate medical support should be readily available when ELAPRASE is administered .
Observe patients closely for an appropriate period of time after administration of ELAPRASE , taking into account the time to onset of anaphylaxis seen in premarketing clinical trials and postmarketing reports .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis , and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur .
5 . 2 Risk of Hypersensitivity , Serious Adverse Reactions , and Antibody Development in Hunter Syndrome Patients with Severe Genetic Mutations In the clinical trial of Hunter syndrome patients aged 7 years and younger , patients with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations experienced a higher incidence of hypersensitivity reactions , serious adverse reactions , and anti - idursulfase antibody development than Hunter syndrome patients with missense mutations .
Eleven of 15 ( 73 % ) patients with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations and five of 12 ( 42 % ) patients with missense mutations experienced hypersensitivity reactions .
Nine of 15 ( 60 % ) patients with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations and two of 12 ( 17 % ) patients with missense mutations had serious adverse reactions .
All 15 patients with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations developed anti - idursulfase ( ELAPRASE ) antibodies , compared to only 3 patients with missense mutations ( Table 2 ) .
Thirteen patients with these mutations developed neutralizing antibodies , which interfere with ELAPRASE uptake into the cell or ELAPRASE enzyme activity , compared to only one patient with missense mutation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Risk of Acute Respiratory Complications Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute febrile or respiratory illness at the time of ELAPRASE infusion may be at higher risk of life - threatening complications from hypersensitivity reactions .
Careful consideration should be given to the patient ' s clinical status prior to administration of ELAPRASE and consider delaying the ELAPRASE infusion .
One patient with a tracheostomy , severe airway disease , and acute febrile illness experienced respiratory distress , hypoxia , cyanosis , and seizure with a loss of consciousness during ELAPRASE infusion .
5 . 4 Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure Caution should be exercised when administering ELAPRASE to patients susceptible to fluid overload , or patients with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac and / or respiratory function for whom fluid restriction is indicated .
These patients may be at risk of serious exacerbation of their cardiac or respiratory status during infusions .
Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available during ELAPRASE infusion , and some patients may require prolonged observation times that should be based on the individual needs of the patient [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions occurring in at least three patients ( ≥ 9 % ) aged five years and older were headache , pruritus , musculoskeletal pain , urticaria , diarrhea , and cough .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in at least three patients ( ≥ 10 % ) aged seven years and younger were pyrexia , rash , vomiting , and urticaria .
In all clinical trials , the most common adverse reactions requiring medical intervention were hypersensitivity reactions , and included rash , urticaria , pruritus , flushing , pyrexia , and headache ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 866 - 888 - 0660 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] In clinical trials , the most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) following ELAPRASE treatment were hypersensitivity reactions , and included rash , urticaria , pruritus , flushing , pyrexia , and headache .
Most hypersensitivity reactions requiring intervention were ameliorated with slowing of the infusion rate , temporarily stopping the infusion , with or without administering additional treatments including antihistamines , corticosteroids , or both prior to or during infusions .
In clinical trials , the most frequent serious adverse reactions following ELAPRASE treatment were hypoxic episodes .
Other notable serious adverse reactions that occurred in the ELAPRASE - treated patients but not in the placebo - treated patients included one case each of : cardiac arrhythmia , pulmonary embolism , cyanosis , respiratory failure , infection , and arthralgia .
Clinical Trials in Patients 5 Years and Older A 53 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of ELAPRASE was conducted in 96 male patients with Hunter syndrome , ages 5 - 31 years old .
Of the 96 patients , 83 % were White , non - Hispanic .
Patients were randomized to three treatment groups , each with 32 patients : ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly , ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg every other week , or placebo .
Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 69 % ( 22 of 32 ) of patients who received once - weekly treatment of ELAPRASE .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in at least 9 % of patients ( ≥ 3 patients ) in the ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly group and with a higher incidence than in the placebo group .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions that Occurred in the Placebo - Controlled Trial in At Least 9 % of Patients in the ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg Once Weekly Group and with a Higher Incidence than in the Placebo Group ( 5 Years and Older ) System Organ Class Adverse Reaction ELAPRASE ( 0 . 5 mg / kg weekly ) N = 32 n ( % ) Placebo N = 32 n ( % ) Gastrointestinal disorder Diarrhea 3 ( 9 % ) 1 ( 3 % ) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Musculoskeletal Pain 4 ( 13 % ) 1 ( 3 % ) Nervous system disorders Headache 9 ( 28 % ) 8 ( 25 % ) Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 3 ( 9 % ) 1 ( 3 % ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Pruritus 8 ( 25 % ) 3 ( 9 % ) Urticaria 5 ( 16 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Additional adverse reactions that occurred in at least 9 % of patients ( ≥ 3 patients ) in the ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg every other week group and with a higher incidence than in the placebo group included : rash ( 19 % ) , flushing ( 16 % ) , fatigue ( 13 % ) , tachycardia ( 9 % ) , and chills ( 9 % ) .
Extension Trial An open - label extension trial was conducted in patients who completed the placebo - controlled trial .
Ninety - four of the 96 patients who were enrolled in the placebo - controlled trial consented to participate in the extension trial .
All 94 patients received ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly for 24 months .
No new serious adverse reactions were reported .
Approximately half ( 53 % ) of patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions during the 24 - month extension trial .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed in Table 1 , common hypersensitivity reactions occurring in at least 5 % of patients ( ≥ 5 patients ) in the extension trial included : rash ( 23 % ) , pyrexia ( 9 % ) , flushing ( 7 % ) , erythema ( 7 % ) , nausea ( 5 % ) , dizziness ( 5 % ) , vomiting ( 5 % ) , and hypotension ( 5 % ) .
Clinical Trial in Patients 7 Years and Younger A 53 - week , open - label , single - arm , safety trial of once weekly ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg treatment was conducted in patients with Hunter syndrome , ages 16 months to 4 years old ( n = 20 ) and ages 5 to 7 . 5 years old ( n = 8 ) at enrollment .
Patients experienced similar adverse reactions as those observed in clinical trials in patients 5 years and older , with the most common adverse reactions following ELAPRASE treatment being hypersensitivity reactions ( 57 % ) .
A higher incidence of the following common hypersensitivity reactions were reported in this younger age group : pyrexia ( 36 % ) , rash ( 32 % ) , and vomiting ( 14 % ) .
The most common serious adverse reactions occurring in at least 10 % of patients ( ≥ 3 patients ) included : bronchopneumonia / pneumonia ( 18 % ) , ear infection ( 11 % ) , and pyrexia ( 11 % ) .
Twenty - seven patients had results of genotype analysis : 15 patients had complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations and 12 patients had missense mutations .
Safety results demonstrated that patients with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations are more likely to experience hypersensitivity reactions and have serious adverse reactions following ELAPRASE administration , compared to patients with missense mutations .
Table 2 summarizes these findings .
Table 2 .
Impact of Antibody Status and Genetic Mutations on Occurrence of Serious Adverse Reactions and Hypersensitivity in Patients 7 Years and Younger Treated with ELAPRASE Anti - idursulfase antibodies ( Ab ) Anti - idursulfase neutralizing antibodies ( Nab ) Total Positive Negative Positive Negative Antibody Status Reported ( patients ) 28 19 9 15 13 Serious Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] ( patients ) 13 11 2 9 4 Hypersensitivity ( patients ) 16 12 4 10 6 Patients with genotype data 27 M U T A T I O N S Missense Mutation ( n = 12 ) Antibody status 12 3 9 1 11 Serious Adverse Reactions 2 0 2 0 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions 5 1 4 0 5 Complete Gene Deletion , Large Gene Rearrangement , Nonsense , Frameshift , Splice Site Mutations ( n = 15 ) Antibody Status 15 15 0 13 2 Serious Adverse Reactions 9 9 0 7 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions 11 11 0 10 1 [ 1 ] Serious adverse reactions included : bronchopneumonia / pneumonia , ear infection , and pyrexia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity Clinical Trials in Patients 5 Years and Older As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
In clinical trials in patients 5 years and older , 63 of the 64 patients treated with ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly or placebo for 53 weeks , followed by ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly in the extension trial , had immunogenicity data available for analysis .
Of the 63 patients , 32 ( 51 % ) patients tested positive for anti - idursulfase IgG antibodies ( Ab ) at least one time ( Table 2 ) .
Of the 32 Ab - positive patients , 23 ( 72 % ) tested positive for Ab at three or more different time points ( persistent Ab ) .
The incidence of hypersensitivity reactions was higher in patients who tested positive for Ab than those who tested negative .
Thirteen of 32 ( 41 % ) Ab - positive patients also tested positive for antibodies that neutralize idursulfase uptake into cells ( uptake neutralizing antibodies , uptake NAb ) or enzymatic activity ( activity NAb ) at least one time , and 8 ( 25 % ) of Ab - positive patients had persistent NAb .
There was no clear relationship between the presence of either Ab or NAb and therapeutic response .
Clinical Trial in Patients 7 Years and Younger In the clinical trial in patients 7 years and younger , 19 of 28 ( 68 % ) patients treated with ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly tested Ab - positive .
Of the 19 Ab - positive patients , 16 ( 84 % ) tested positive for Ab at three or more different time points ( persistent Ab ) .
In addition , 15 of 19 ( 79 % ) Ab - positive patients tested positive for NAb , with 14 of 15 ( 93 % ) NAb - positive patients having persistent NAb .
All 15 patients with complete gene deletion , large gene rearrangement , nonsense , frameshift , or splice site mutations tested positive for Ab ( Table 2 ) .
Of these 15 patients , neutralizing antibodies were observed in 13 ( 87 % ) patients .
The NAbs in these patients developed earlier ( most reported to be positive at Week 9 rather than at Week 27 , as reported in clinical trials in patients older than 5 years of age ) and were associated with higher titers and greater in vitro neutralizing activity than in patients older than 5 years of age .
The presence of Ab was associated with reduced systemic idursulfase exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The immunogenicity data reflect the percentage of patients whose test results were positive for antibodies to idursulfase in specific assays , and are highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of these assays .
The observed incidence of positive antibody in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medication , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to idursulfase with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ELAPRASE .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In post - marketing experience , late - emergent symptoms and signs of anaphylactic reactions have occurred up to 24 hours after initial treatment and recovery from an initial anaphylactic reaction .
In addition , patients experienced repeated anaphylaxis over a two - to four - month period , up to several years after initiating ELAPRASE treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
A seven year - old male patient with Hunter syndrome , who received ELAPRASE at twice the recommended dosage ( 1 mg / kg weekly ) for 1 . 5 years , experienced two anaphylactic events after 4 . 5 years of treatment .
Treatment has been withdrawn [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Serious adverse reactions that resulted in death included cardiorespiratory arrest , respiratory failure , respiratory distress , cardiac failure , and pneumonia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with ELAPRASE use in pregnant women .
Available data from a small number of postmarketing cases with ELAPRASE use in pregnancy are insufficient to inform drug - associated risks for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In an animal reproduction study , no evidence of adverse effects on pre - and post - natal development was observed with twice weekly intravenous administration of idursulfase to pregnant rats from gestation day 6 through lactation day 19 at about 4 times the recommended human weekly dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In a pre - and post - natal development study , idursulfase was administered to pregnant rats twice weekly , intravenously , from gestation day 6 through lactation day 19 .
No significant adverse effects on pre - and post - natal development of the offspring were observed at twice weekly intravenous doses up to 12 . 5 mg / kg ( about 4 times the recommended human weekly dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg based on body surface area ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of idursulfase in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Idursulfase was excreted in breast milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ELAPRASE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ELAPRASE or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Idursulfase was excreted in breast milk of lactating rats at a concentration higher ( 4 - to 5 - fold ) than the maximum blood concentration , when administered as a single intravenous dose up to 2 . 5 mg / kg .
The concentration of drug in animal milk does not necessarily predict the concentration of drug in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Clinical trials with ELAPRASE were conducted in 96 patients with Hunter syndrome , ages 5 to 31 years old , with the majority of the patients in the pediatric age group ( median age 15 years old ) .
In addition , an open - label , uncontrolled clinical trial was conducted in 28 patients with Hunter syndrome , ages 16 months to 7 . 5 years old .
Patients 16 months to 5 years of age demonstrated reduction in spleen volume that was similar to that of adults and children 5 years and older .
However , there are no data to support improvement in disease - related symptoms or long term clinical outcome in patients 16 months to 5 years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of ELAPRASE have not been established in pediatric patients less than 16 months of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ELAPRASE did not include patients older than 31 years of age .
It is not known whether older patients respond differently from younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE One patient with Hunter syndrome , who received ELAPRASE at twice the recommended dosage for one and a half years , experienced two anaphylactic reactions over a 3 - month period 4 . 5 years after initiating ELAPRASE treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION ELAPRASE is a formulation of idursulfase , a purified form of human iduronate - 2 - sulfatase , a lysosomal enzyme .
Idursulfase is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a human cell line .
Idursulfase is an enzyme that hydrolyzes the 2 - sulfate esters of terminal iduronate sulfate residues from the glycosaminoglycans dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate in the lysosomes of various cell types .
Idursulfase is a 525 - amino acid glycoprotein with a molecular weight of approximately 76 kilodaltons .
The enzyme contains eight asparagine - linked glycosylation sites occupied by complex oligosaccharide structures .
The enzyme activity of idursulfase is dependent on the post - translational modification of a specific cysteine to formylglycine .
Idursulfase has a specific activity ranging from 46 to 74 units / mg of protein ( one unit is defined as the amount of enzyme required to hydrolyze 1 micromole of heparin disaccharide substrate per hour under the specified assay conditions ) .
ELAPRASE is administered as an intravenous infusion and supplied as a sterile , nonpyrogenic clear to slightly opalescent , colorless solution that must be diluted prior to administration in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Each vial contains an extractable volume of 3 mL with an idursulfase concentration of 2 mg / mL at a pH of approximately 6 .
Each vial contains 6 mg idursulfase , sodium chloride ( 24 mg ) , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate ( 6 . 75 mg ) , sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate ( 2 . 97 mg ) , and polysorbate 20 ( 0 . 66 mg ) .
ELAPRASE does not contain preservatives .
Each vial is for single use only .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Hunter syndrome ( Mucopolysaccharidosis II , MPS II ) is an X - linked recessive disease caused by insufficient levels of the lysosomal enzyme iduronate - 2 - sulfatase .
This enzyme cleaves the terminal 2 - O - sulfate moieties from the glycosaminoglycans ( GAG ) dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate .
Due to the missing or defective iduronate - 2 - sulfatase enzyme in patients with Hunter syndrome , GAG progressively accumulate in the lysosomes of a variety of cells , leading to cellular engorgement , organomegaly , tissue destruction , and organ system dysfunction .
ELAPRASE is intended to provide exogenous enzyme for uptake into cellular lysosomes .
Mannose - 6 - phosphate ( M6P ) residues on the oligosaccharide chains allow binding of the enzyme to the M6P receptors on the cell surface , leading to cellular internalization of the enzyme , targeting to intracellular lysosomes and subsequent catabolism of accumulated GAG .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Decreases in urinary GAG levels were observed following treatment with ELAPRASE .
The responsiveness of urinary GAG to dosage alterations of ELAPRASE is unknown , and the relationship of urinary GAG to other measures of clinical response has not been established .
Patients who tested positive for anti - idursulfase antibodies ( Ab ) experienced a less pronounced decrease in urinary GAG levels [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Clinical Trials in Patients 5 Years and Older The pharmacokinetic characteristics of idursulfase were evaluated in 59 patients with Hunter syndrome .
The serum concentration of idursulfase was quantified using an antigen - specific ELISA assay .
The area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) increased in a greater than dose proportional manner as the dose increased from 0 . 15 mg / kg to 1 . 5 mg / kg following a single 1 - hour infusion of ELAPRASE .
The pharmacokinetic parameters at the recommended dose regimen ( 0 . 5 mg / kg ELAPRASE administered weekly as a 3 - hour infusion ) were determined at Week 1 and Week 27 in 10 patients 7 . 7 to 27 years of age ( Table 3 ) .
There were no apparent differences in PK parameter values between Week 1 and Week 27 regardless of the antibody status in these patients .
Table 3 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Patients 7 . 7 to 27 Years of AgePharmacokinetic Parameter Week 1 Mean ( SD ) Week 27 Mean ( SD ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 5 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 1 ( 0 . 3 ) AUC ( min • mcg / mL ) 206 ( 87 ) 169 ( 55 ) t1 / 2 ( min ) 44 ( 19 ) 48 ( 21 ) CL ( mL / min / kg ) 3 . 0 ( 1 . 2 ) 3 . 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Vss ( mL / kg ) 213 ( 82 ) 254 ( 87 ) Clinical Trial in Patients 7 Years and Younger Idursulfase pharmacokinetics was evaluated in 27 patients with Hunter syndrome 16 months to 7 . 5 years of age who received ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly as a 3 - hour infusion .
The presence of anti - idursulfase antibody ( Ab ) was associated with a reduced systemic exposure of idursulfase .
Eight of the 18 Ab - positive patients had no measurable idursulfase concentrations .
An additional 9 Ab - positive patients had decreased Cmax , AUC , and t1 / 2 at Week 27 compared to Week 1 ( Table 4 ) .
Idursulfase pharmacokinetics was similar between Week 1 and Week 27 in Ab - negative patients ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Patients 16 months to 7 . 5 Years of Age Week 1 Week 27 Pharmacokinetic Parameter ( N = 27 ) All Patients Mean ( SD ) Anti - idursulfase Antibodies ( Ab ) [ 1 ] ( n = 9 ) Negative Ab Mean ( SD ) ( n = 10 [ 2 ] ) Positive Ab Mean ( SD ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 33 ( 0 . 817 ) 1 . 40 ( 0 . 389 ) 0 . 706 ( 0 . 558 ) AUC ( min • mcg / mL ) 224 ( 76 . 9 ) [ 3 ] 281 ( 81 . 8 ) 122 ( 92 . 1 ) [ 4 ] t1 / 2 ( min ) 160 ( 69 ) null 134 ( 19 ) 84 ( 46 ) null CL ( mL / min / kg ) 2 . 4 ( 0 . 7 ) null 2 . 0 ( 0 .
8 ) 7 . 4 ( 6 . 0 ) null Vss ( mL / kg ) 394 ( 423 ) null 272 ( 112 ) 829 ( 636 ) null [ 1 ] Positive anti - idursulfase antibody ( Ab ) is defined as having at least one serum specimen with measurable antibody during study duration .
[ 2 ] Eight of 18 patients with positive Ab had no measurable concentrations at Week 27 .
[ 3 ] N = 26 [ 4 ] N = 9 All patients with the complete gene deletion or large gene rearrangement genotype ( n = 8 ) developed Ab at Week 27 .
Five of these eight patients had no measurable idursulfase concentrations at Week 27 , and three had a lower systemic exposure at Week 27 compared to Week 1 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential or studies to evaluate mutagenic potential have not been performed with ELAPRASE .
ELAPRASE at intravenous doses up to 5 mg / kg administered twice weekly ( about 1 . 6 times the recommended human weekly dose based on body surface area ) had no effect on fertility and reproductive performance in male rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Trials in Patients 5 Years and Older The safety and efficacy of ELAPRASE were evaluated in a 53 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of 96 patients with Hunter syndrome .
The trial included patients with deficiency in iduronate - 2 - sulfatase enzyme activity and a percent predicted forced vital capacity ( % - predicted FVC ) less than 80 % .
The age of patients ranged from 5 to 31 years .
Patients received ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once per week ( n = 32 ) , ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once every other week ( n = 32 ) , or placebo ( n = 32 ) .
The primary efficacy outcome assessment was a two - component composite score based on the sum of the ranks of the change from baseline to Week 53 in distance walked in six minutes ( 6 - minute walk test ) and the ranks of the change in % - predicted FVC .
This two - component composite primary endpoint differed statistically significantly between the three groups , and the difference was greatest between the placebo group and the once weekly treatment group ( once weekly ELAPRASE vs . placebo , p = 0 . 0049 ) .
Examination of the individual components of the composite score showed that , in the adjusted analysis , the weekly ELAPRASE - treated group experienced a 35 meter greater mean increase in the distance walked in six minutes compared to placebo .
The changes in % - predicted FVC were not statistically significant ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 .
Clinical Trial Results ELAPRASE Weekly n = 32 [ 1 ] Placebo n = 32 null ELAPRASE Once Weekly – Placebo Baseline Week 53 Change [ 2 ] Baseline Week 53 Change null Difference in Change Results from the 6 - Minute Walk Test ( Meters ) Mean ± SD 392 ± 108 436 ± 138 44 ± 70 393 ± 106 400 ± 106 7 ± 54 37 ± 16 [ 3 ] 35 ± 14 [ 4 ] ( p = 0 . 01 ) Median 397 429 31 403 412 - 4 Percentiles ( 25 th , 75 th ) 316 , 488 365 , 536 0 , 94 341 , 469 361 , 460 - 30 , 31 Results from the Forced Vital Capacity Test ( % of Predicted ) Mean ± SD 55 . 3 ± 15 . 9 58 . 7 ± 19 . 3 3 . 4 ± 10 . 0 55 . 6 ± 12 . 3 56 . 3 ± 15 . 7 0 . 8 ± 9 . 6 2 . 7 ± 2 . 5 null 4 . 3 ± 2 . 3 null ( p = 0 . 07 ) Median 54 . 9 59 . 2 2 . 1 57 . 4 54 . 6 - 2 . 5 Percentiles ( 25 th , 75 th ) 43 . 6 , 69 . 3 44 . 4 , 70 . 7 - 0 . 8 , 9 . 5 46 . 9 , 64 . 4 43 . 8 , 67 . 5 - 5 . 4 , 5 . 0 [ 1 ] One patient in the placebo group and one patient in the ELAPRASE group died before Week 53 ; imputation was by last observation carried forward in the intent - to - treat analysis .
[ 2 ] Change , calculated as Week 53 minus Baseline [ 3 ] Observed mean ± SE [ 4 ] ANCOVA model based mean ± SE , adjusted for baseline disease severity , region , and age .
Pharmacodynamic assessments included urinary GAG levels and changes in liver and spleen size .
Urinary GAG levels were elevated in all patients at baseline .
Following 53 weeks of treatment , mean urinary GAG levels were reduced in the ELAPRASE once weekly group , although GAG levels still remained above the upper limit of normal in half of the ELAPRASE - treated patients .
Urinary GAG levels remained elevated and essentially unchanged in the placebo group .
Sustained reductions in both liver and spleen volumes were observed in the ELAPRASE once weekly group through Week 53 compared to placebo .
There were essentially no changes in liver and spleen volumes in the placebo group .
Extension Trial Patients who participated in the placebo - controlled trial were eligible to continue treatment in an open - label extension trial .
During the extension trial , all patients received ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly for 24 months .
Patients who were treated with ELAPRASE once weekly and every other week in the placebo - controlled trial demonstrated improvement in distance walked in the 6 - minute walk test for an additional 8 months of treatment in the extension trial .
There was no change in mean % - predicted FVC in all Hunter syndrome patients after 6 months of treatment in the extension trial ; however , a slight decrease in mean % - predicted FVC was demonstrated through to month 24 of the extension trial .
The long - term effect of ELAPRASE on pulmonary function in Hunter syndrome patients is unclear .
There were no further reductions in mean urinary GAG levels in patients initially treated with ELAPRASE once weekly ; however , the patients treated with ELAPRASE every other week during the placebo - controlled trial experienced further reductions in mean urinary GAG levels after changing to a more frequent dosing regimen during the extension trial .
The persistence of reduced urinary GAG levels did not correlate with the long term effect demonstrated by the 6 - minute walk test distance or % - predicted FVC .
14 . 2 Clinical Trial in Patients 7 Years and Younger A 53 - week , open - label , multicenter , single - arm trial was conducted to assess the safety , pharmacokinetics , and pharmacodynamics of ELAPRASE 0 . 5 mg / kg once weekly in male Hunter syndrome patients aged 7 years and younger .
Safety results demonstrated that patients with complete gene deletion or large gene rearrangement mutations are more likely to develop antibodies , including neutralizing antibodies , and to experience hypersensitivity reactions with ELAPRASE administration [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
In patients who remained antibody negative , the pharmacokinetic profile , reduction in urinary GAG excretion levels , and reduction in spleen volume were similar to those of adults and children 5 years and older .
In patients who were persistently antibody positive , the presence of anti - idursulfase antibody was associated with reduced systemic exposure of idursulfase and a less pronounced decrease in urinary GAG levels [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ELAPRASE is supplied as a sterile injection in a 5 mL Type I glass vial .
The vials are closed with a butyl rubber stopper with fluororesin coating and an aluminum overseal with a blue flip - off plastic cap .
Each carton contains a single vial NDC 54092 - 700 - 01 Store ELAPRASE vials in the carton at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) to protect from light .
Do not freeze or shake .
Do not use ELAPRASE after the expiration date on the vial .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for Patients Patients should be advised that life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred in some patients during and up to 24 hours after ELAPRASE therapy .
Patients who have experienced anaphylactic reactions may require prolonged observation .
Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute respiratory disease may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to hypersensitivity reactions .
A Hunter Outcome Survey has been established in order to understand better the variability and progression of Hunter syndrome ( MPS II ) in the population as a whole , and to monitor and evaluate long - term treatment effects of ELAPRASE .
Patients and their physicians are encouraged to participate in this program .
For more information , call Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 866 - 888 - 0660 .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 US License Number : 1898 Phone # 1 - 866 - 888 - 0660 ELAPRASE ® and the ELAPRASE Logo ® are registered trademarks of Shire Human Genetic Therapies , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 mg / 3 mL Vial Carton elaprase ® ( idursulfase ) injection 6 mg / 3 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) Single Use Vial , Discard Unused Portion Must be diluted for intravenous infusion Takeda Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
