DESCRIPTION Cordran ® ( flurandrenolide , USP ) is a potent corticosteroid intended for topical use .
Flurandrenolide occurs as white to off - white , fluffy , crystalline powder and is odorless .
Flurandrenolide is practically insoluble in water and in ether .
One gram of flurandrenolide dissolves in 72 mL of alcohol and in 10 mL of chloroform .
The molecular weight of flurandrenolide is 436 . 52 .
The chemical name of flurandrenolide is Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 6 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - ; its empirical formula is C24H33FO6 .
The structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Cordran ® Cream ( flurandrenolide Cream , USP ) contains 0 . 5 mg ( 1 . 145 µmol ; 0 . 05 % ) or 0 . 25 mg ( 0 . 57 µmol ; 0 . 025 % ) flurandrenolide in an emulsified base composed of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , mineral oil , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , stearic acid , and purified water .
Each gram of Cordran ® Ointment ( flurandrenolide Ointment , USP ) contains 0 . 5 mg ( 1 . 145 µmol ; 0 . 05 % ) or 0 . 25 mg ( 0 . 57 µmol ; 0 . 025 % ) flurandrenolide in a base composed of white wax , cetyl alcohol , sorbitan sesquioleate , and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cordran is primarily effective because of its anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory effect of topical corticosteroids is not completely understood .
Corticosteroids with anti - inflammatory activity may stabilize cellular and lysosomal membranes .
There is also the suggestion that the effect on the membranes of lysosomes prevents the release of proteolytic enzymes and , thus , plays a part in reducing inflammation .
Pharmacokinetics — The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
They are metabolized primarily in the liver and then excreted in the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cordran ® ( flurandrenolide , USP ) is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of these preparations .
PRECAUTIONS General — Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions that augment systemic absorption include application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression using urinary - free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , so that supplemental systemic corticosteroids are required .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionately larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatologic infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , Cordran should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient — Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped in order to be occlusive unless the patient is directed to do so by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a patient being treated in the diaper area , because these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
• Do not use Cordran on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by your physician .
• If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact your physician .
• Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using Cordran without first consulting your physician .
Laboratory Tests — The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : • Urinary - free cortisol test • ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility — Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Usage in Pregnancy — Pregnancy Category C — Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corti - costeroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively for pregnant patients or in large amounts or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers — It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use — Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than do mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : • Burning • Itching • Irritation • Dryness • Folliculitis • Hypertrichosis • Acneform eruptions • Hypopigmentation • Perioral dermatitis • Allergic contact dermatitis The following may occur more frequently with occlusive dressings : • Maceration of the skin • Secondary infection • Skin atrophy • Striae • Miliaria Postmarketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of flurandrenolide , USP .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin : skin striae , hypersensitivity , skin atrophy , contact dermatitis and skin discoloration .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For moist lesions , a small quantity of the cream should be rubbed gently into the affected areas 2 or 3 times a day .
For dry , scaly lesions , the ointment is applied as a thin film to affected areas 2 or 3 times daily .
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Cordran ® ( flurandrenolide , USP ) should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Cordran ® Cream is supplied in aluminum tubes as follows : Cordran ® Cream , 0 . 025 % : 120 g ( NDC 16110 - 034 - 12 ) Cordran ® Cream , 0 . 05 % : 120 g ( NDC 16110 - 035 - 12 ) Cordran ® Ointment is supplied in aluminum tube as follows : Cordran ® Ointment , 0 . 05 % : 60 g ( NDC 16110 - 026 - 60 ) 120 g ( NDC 16110 - 026 - 12 ) Keep out of reach of children .
Storage Keep tightly closed .
Protect from light .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
.
Rx Only Revision : May 2017 ALMIRALL , LLC Manufactured by DPT Laboratories , San Antonio , TX 78215 For Almirall , LLC , 101 Lindenwood Drive , Suite 400 , Malvern , PA 19355 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 035 - 12 - 0 . 05 % Cream 120 g Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 035 - 12 - 0 . 05 % Cream 120 g Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 034 - 12 - 0 . 025 % Cream 120 g Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 034 - 12 - 0 . 025 % Cream 120 g Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 026 - 60 - 0 . 05 % Ointment 60 g Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 16110 - 026 - 60 - 0 . 05 % Ointment 60 g Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
