1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VITRASE is an endoglycosidase indicated as an adjuvant : • • in subcutaneous fluid administration for achieving hydration .
( 1 . 1 ) • • for increasing the dispersion and absorption of other injected drugs .
( 1 . 2 ) • • for improving resorption of radiopaque agents , in subcutaneous urography .
( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration ( Hypodermoclysis ) VITRASE ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) Ovine is indicated as an adjuvant in subcutaneous fluid administration for achieving hydration .
1 . 2 Dispersion and Absorption of Injected Drugs VITRASE is indicated as an adjuvant to increase the dispersion and absorption of other injected drugs .
1 . 3 Subcutaneous Urography VITRASE is indicated as an adjuvant in subcutaneous urography for improving resorption of radiopaque agents .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Draw the desired amount of VITRASE into the syringe to obtain target hyaluronidase activity ( USP Units ) according to table .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Before adding VITRASE to a solution containing another drug check appropriate references regarding physical / chemical incompatibilities .
( 7 ) • • Subcutaneous Fluid Administration : Inject 200 Units of VITRASE prior to clysis .
It will facilitate absorption of 1 , 000 mL or more of solution .
The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered depends upon the age , weight , clinical condition of the patient , and laboratory determinations .
Rate and volume of subcutaneous fluid administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) • • Increasing absorption and dispersion of injected drugs : Add 50 – 300 Units ( most typically 150 Units ) of VITRASE to the injection solution .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Subcutaneous urography : With the patient prone , inject 75 Units of VITRASE subcutaneously over each scapula , followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
VITRASE should be administered as discussed below , since its effects relative to absorption and dispersion of other drugs are not produced when it is administered intravenously .
Draw the desired amount of VITRASE into the syringe to obtain the target Hyaluronidase Activity ( USP Units ) according to the table below .
Table 1 : Amount of VITRASE Solution Withdrawn Per Target Hyaluronidase ActivityTarget Hyaluronidase Activity ( USP Units ) Volume Withdrawn from Vial ( mL ) 50 Units 0 . 25 mL 75 Units 0 . 38 mL 150 Units 0 . 75 mL 200 Units 1 . 00 mL After admixture with drug , store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) and use within 6 hours .
2 . 2 Dosage for Subcutaneous Fluid Administration ( Hypodermoclysis ) Insert needle with aseptic precautions .
With tip free and movable between skin and muscle , begin clysis ; fluid should start in readily without pain or lump .
Then inject VITRASE into rubber tubing close to needle .
An alternate method is to inject VITRASE under skin prior to clysis .
200 Units will facilitate absorption of 1 , 000 mL or more of solution .
As with all parenteral fluid therapy , observe effect closely , with same precautions for restoring fluid and electrolyte balance as in intravenous injections .
The dose , the rate of injection , and the type of solution ( saline , glucose , Ringer ’ s , etc . ) must be adjusted carefully to the individual patient .
When solutions devoid of inorganic electrolytes are given by hypodermoclysis , hypovolemia may occur .
This may be prevented by using solutions containing adequate amounts of inorganic electrolytes and / or controlling the volume and speed of administration .
VITRASE may be added to small volumes of solution ( up to 200 mL ) , such as small clysis for infants or solutions of drugs for subcutaneous injection .
For infants and children less than 3 years old , the volume of a single clysis should be limited to 200 mL ; and in premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight ; the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
For older patients , the rate and volume of administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
2 . 3 Dosage for Absorption and Dispersion of Injected Drugs Absorption and dispersion of other injected drugs may be enhanced by adding 50 – 300 Units , most typically 150 Units of VITRASE to the injection solution .
2 . 4 Dosage for Subcutaneous Urography The subcutaneous route of administration of urographic contrast media is indicated when intravenous administration cannot be successfully accomplished , particularly in infants and small children .
With the patient prone , 75 Units of VITRASE are injected subcutaneously over each scapula , followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 200 USP Units / mL in a single - dose vial Injection : 200 USP Units / mL in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VITRASE is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase or any other ingredient in the formulation .
A preliminary skin test for hypersensitivity to VITRASE can be performed .
The skin test is made by intradermal injection of approximately 0 . 02 mL ( 4 Units ) of a 200 Units / mL solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
A positive reaction consists of a wheal with pseudopods appearing within 5 minutes and persisting for 20 to 30 minutes and accompanied by localized itching .
Transient vasodilation at the site of the test , i . e . , erythema , is not a positive reaction .
Discontinue VITRASE if sensitization occurs .
Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Spread of Localized Infection ( 5 . 1 ) • • Ocular Cornea Damage ( 5 . 2 ) • • Enzyme Inactivation with Intravenous Administration ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Spread of Localized Infection Hyaluronidase should not be injected into or around infected or acutely inflamed area because of the danger of spreading to a localized infection .
Hyaluronidase should not be used to reduce the swelling of bites or stings .
5 . 2 Ocular Cornea Damage VITRASE should not be applied directly to the cornea .
5 . 3 Enzyme Inactivation with Intravenous Administration VITRASE should not be used for intravenous injections because the enzyme is rapidly inactivated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of hyaluronidase products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions have been local injection site reactions .
Hyaluronidase has been reported to enhance the adverse reactions associated with co - administered drug products .
Edema has been reported most frequently in association with hypodermoclysis .
Allergic reactions ( e . g . , urticaria , angioedema ) have been reported in less than 0 . 1 % of patients receiving hyaluronidase .
Anaphylactic - like reactions following retrobulbar block or intravenous injections have occurred , rarely .
Allergic and anaphylactic - like reactions have been reported , rarely .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS It is recommended that appropriate references be consulted regarding physical or chemical incompatibilities before adding VITRASE to a solution containing another drug .
• • Furosemide , benzodiazepines and phenytoin are incompatible with hyaluronidase .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Hyaluronidase should not be used to enhance the absorption and dispersion of dopamine and / or alpha agonist drugs .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Local anesthetics : Hyaluronidase hastens onset and shortens duration of effect , increases incidence of systemic reactions .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Large doses of salicylates , cortisone , adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) , estrogens or antihistamines : Concomitant use may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Incompatibilities Furosemide , benzodiazepines and phenytoin have been found to be incompatible with hyaluronidase .
7 . 2 Drug - Specific Precautions Hyaluronidase should not be used to enhance the absorption and dispersion of dopamine and / or alpha agonist drugs .
When considering the administration of any other drug with hyaluronidase , it is recommended that appropriate references first be consulted to determine the usual precautions for the use of the other drug .
7 . 3 Local Anesthetic Agent When hyaluronidase is added to a local anesthetic agent , it hastens the onset of analgesia and tends to reduce the swelling caused by local infiltration , but the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution increases its absorption ; this shortens its duration of action and tends to increase the incidences of systemic reaction .
7 . 4 Salicylates , Cortisone , ACTH , Estrogens , Antihistamines Patients receiving large doses of salicylates , cortisone , adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) , estrogens , or antihistamines may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect , since these drugs apparently render tissues partly resistant to the action of hyaluronidase .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight , and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
Special care must be taken in pediatric patients to avoid overhydration by controlling the rate and total volume of the infusion ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Human studies of hyaluronidase as an aid to conception and as an aid to delivery have been conducted without reports of maternal or fetal harm .
Non ‑ human animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with VITRASE .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % , and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % , of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Clinical Considerations Hyaluronidase has been used as a component to aid the in vitro fertilization of human eggs .
Administration of hyaluronidase during labor was reported to cause no complications ; no increase in blood loss or differences in cervical trauma were observed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of VITRASEin human milk , the effects on breastfed infants , or the effects on milk production to inform risk of VITRASE to an infant during lactation .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for VITRASE , and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from VITRASE .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VITRASE have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of VITRASE in these patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies .
Clinical hydration requirements for children can be achieved through administration of subcutaneous fluids facilitated with VITRASE .
The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
The potential for chemical or physical incompatibilities should be kept in mind [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The rate and volume of subcutaneous fluid administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight , and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
During subcutaneous fluid administration , special care must be taken in pediatric patients to avoid over hydration by controlling the rate and total volume of the infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION VITRASE ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) Ovine is a preparation of purified ovine testicular hyaluronidase , a protein enzyme .
The exact chemical structure of this enzyme is unknown .
VITRASE ( hyaluronidase injection ) is supplied as a sterile , nonpreserved , clear , colorless solution with a pH of 6 . 4 to 7 . 2 for infiltration use , for interstitial use , for intramuscular use , for intraocular use , for peribulbar use , for retrobulbar use , for soft tissue use , and for subcutaneous use .
Each mL contains 200 USP Units of ovine hyaluronidase with 0 . 93 mg lactose monohydrate , 0 . 36 mg potassium phosphate dibasic , 0 . 23 mg potassium phosphate monobasic , and 9 . 0 mg sodium chloride .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Hyaluronidase is a spreading or diffusing substance , which modifies the permeability of connective tissue through the hydrolysis of hyaluronic acid , a polysaccharide found in the intercellular ground substance of connective tissue , and of certain specialized tissues , such as the umbilical cord and vitreous humor .
Hyaluronic acid is also present in the capsules of type A and C hemolytic streptococci .
Hyaluronidase hydrolyzes hyaluronic acid by splitting the glucosaminidic bond between C1 of the glucosamine moiety and C4 of glucuronic acid .
This temporarily decreases the viscosity of the cellular cement and promotes diffusion of injected fluids or of localized transudates or exudates , thus facilitating their absorption .
Hyaluronidase cleaves glycosidic bonds of hyaluronic acid and , to a variable degree , some other acid mucopolysaccharides of the connective tissue .
The activity is measured in vitro by monitoring the decrease in the amount of an insoluble serum albumen - hyaluronic acid complex as the enzyme cleaves the hyaluronic acid component .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In the absence of hyaluronidase , material injected subcutaneously spreads very slowly .
Hyaluronidase facilitates dispersion , provided local interstitial pressure is adequate to furnish the necessary mechanical impulse .
Such an impulse is normally initiated by injected solutions .
The rate and extent of dispersion and absorption is proportionate to the amount of hyaluronidase and the volume of solution .
The reconstitution of the dermal barrier removed by intradermal injection of hyaluronidase ( over a range of 0 . 002 to 20 Units / mL ) to adult humans indicated that at 24 hours the restoration of the barrier is incomplete and inversely related to the dosage of enzyme ; at 48 hours the barrier is completely restored in all treated areas .
Results from an experimental study , in humans , on the influence of hyaluronidase in bone repair support the conclusion that this enzyme alone , in the usual clinical dosage , does not deter bone healing .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the disappearance of injected hyaluronidase is limited .
It is known , however , that the blood of a number of mammalian species including humans brings about the inactivation of hyaluronidase .
Studies have demonstrated that hyaluronidase is antigenic ; repeated injections of relatively large amounts of this enzyme may result in the formation of neutralizing antibodies .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been conducted to determine whether hyaluronidase has carcinogenic or mutagenic potential .
Adequate fertility studies have not been conducted in animals , however , it has been reported that testicular degeneration may occur from the production of organ - specific antibodies against this enzyme following repeated injections .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VITRASE ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) is supplied as 200 USP Units / mL of sterile , nonpreserved , clear , colorless solution in a single - dose , 2 mL glass vial with a rubber stopper and aluminum seal .
VITRASE is supplied in the following packaging : 200 USP Units / mL in a single - dose vial ( NDC 24208 - 002 - 03 ) available in a carton containing 2 single - dose vials ( NDC 24208 - 002 - 02 ) .
Storage • • Protect from light .
• • Store unopened vial in refrigerator at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 35 ° to 46 ° F ) .
• • Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Reporting Adverse Reactions Instruct patients to report adverse reactions including redness , swelling , itching , or pain at the injection site .
Interactions with Other Medications Instruct patients to report if they are taking furosemide , benzodiazepines , phenytoin , dopamine and / or alpha agonists because these medications have been found to be incompatible with hyaluronidase .
Instruct patients to report if they are taking salicylates ( e . g . , aspirin ) , steroids ( e . g . , cortisone or estrogens ) or antihistamines because larger amounts of hyaluronidase may be needed to achieve an equivalent dispersing effect .
Manufactured for : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Siegfried Irvine Irvine , CA 92618 USA Vitrase is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9427903 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vitrase Carton Label NDC 24208 - 002 - 02 Vitrase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) Ovine 200 USP UNITS / mL Sterile NOT FOR IV USE Rx only 2 Single - Use Vials ( Nonpreserved ) Contains 1 . 2 mL per vial BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
