1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FOTIVDA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory advanced renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) following two or more prior systemic therapies .
FOTIVDA is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory advanced renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) following two or more prior systemic therapies .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Dose : 1 . 34 mg once daily with or without food for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment ( 28 - day cycle ) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dose interruptions and / or dose reduction may be needed to manage adverse reactions .
( 2 . 2 ) • For patients with moderate hepatic impairment , reduce the dose to 0 . 89 mg for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment ( 28 - day cycle ) .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dosage of FOTIVDA is 1 . 34 mg taken orally once daily for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment for a 28 - day cycle .
Continue treatment until disease progression or until unacceptable toxicity occurs .
Take FOTIVDA with or without food .
Swallow the FOTIVDA capsule whole with a glass of water .
Do not open the capsule .
If a dose is missed , the next dose should be taken at the next scheduled time .
Do not take two doses at the same time .
2 . 2 Dose Modifications for Adverse Reactions Initiate medical management for diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting prior to dose interruption or reduction .
If dose modifications are required for adverse reactions , reduce the dosage of FOTIVDA to 0 . 89 mg for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment for a 28 - day cycle .
Recommendations for dosage modifications are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Dosage Modifications for Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction Severity [ 1 ] Dosage Modifications for FOTIVDA Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 • Withhold for Grade 3 that persists despite optimal anti - hypertensive therapy .
• Resume at reduced dose when hypertension is controlled at less than or equal to Grade 2 .
Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue .
Cardiac Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 3 • Withhold until improves to Grade 0 to 1 or baseline .
• Resume at a reduced dose or discontinue depending on the severity and persistence of adverse reaction .
Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue .
Arterial Thromboembolic Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Any Grade • Permanently discontinue .
Hemorrhagic Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Grade 3 or 4 • Permanently discontinue .
Proteinuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] 2 grams or greater proteinuria in 24 hours • Withhold until less than or equal to 2 grams of proteinuria per 24 hours .
• Resume at a reduced dose .
• Permanently discontinue for nephrotic syndrome .
Reverse Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Any Grade • Permanently discontinue .
Other Adverse Reactions Persistent or intolerable Grade 2 or 3 adverse reaction Grade 4 laboratory abnormality • Withhold until improves to Grade 0 to 1 or baseline .
• Resume at reduced dose .
Grade 4 adverse reaction • Permanently discontinue .
[ 1 ] Grades are based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Moderate Hepatic Impairment Reduce the recommended dosage of FOTIVDA to 0 . 89 mg capsule taken orally once daily for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment for a 28 - day cycle for patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : • 1 . 34 mg : bright yellow opaque cap imprinted with " TIVZ " in dark blue ink and a bright yellow opaque body imprinted with " SD " in dark blue ink .
• 0 . 89 mg : dark blue opaque cap imprinted with " TIVZ " in yellow ink and a bright yellow opaque body imprinted with " LD " in dark blue ink .
Capsules : 1 . 34 mg and 0 . 89 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypertension and Hypertensive Crisis : Control blood pressure prior to initiating FOTIVDA .
Monitor for hypertension and treat as needed .
For persistent hypertension despite use of anti - hypertensive medications , reduce the FOTIVDA dose .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cardiac Failure : Monitor for signs or symptoms of cardiac failure throughout treatment with FOTIVDA .
( 5 . 2 ) • Cardiac Ischemia and Arterial Thromboembolic Events : Closely monitor patients who are at increased risk for these events .
Permanently discontinue FOTIVDA for severe arterial thromboembolic events , such as myocardial infarction and stroke .
( 5 . 3 ) • Venous Thromboembolic Events : Closely monitor patients who are at increased risk for these events .
Permanently discontinue FOTIVDA for severe venous thromboembolic events .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hemorrhagic Events : Closely monitor patients who are at risk for or who have a history of bleeding .
( 5 . 5 ) • Proteinuria : Monitor throughout treatment with FOTIVDA .
For moderate to severe proteinuria , reduce the dose or temporarily interrupt treatment with FOTIVDA .
( 5 . 6 ) • Thyroid Dysfunction : Monitor before initiation and throughout treatment with FOTIVDA .
( 5 . 7 ) • Risk of Impaired Wound Healing : Withhold FOTIVDA for at least 24 days before elective surgery .
Do not administer for at least 2 weeks following major surgery and adequate wound healing .
The safety of resumption of FOTIVDA after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
( 5 . 8 ) • Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) : Discontinue FOTIVDA if signs or symptoms of RPLS occur .
( 5 . 9 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 10 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Allergic Reactions to Tartrazine : The 0 . 89 mg capsule of FOTIVDA contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible patients .
( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Hypertension and Hypertensive Crisis FOTIVDA can cause severe hypertension and hypertensive crisis .
Hypertension occurred in 45 % of patients treated with FOTIVDA , with 22 % of the events ≥ Grade 3 .
Median time to onset of hypertension was 2 weeks ( range : 0 – 192 weeks ) .
Hypertensive crisis occurred in 0 . 8 % of patients .
One patient ( 0 . 1 % ) died due to hypertensive emergency after FOTIVDA overdose [ see OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
FOTIVDA has not been studied in patients with systolic blood pressure > 150 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure > 100 mmHg .
Control blood pressure prior to treatment with FOTIVDA .
Monitor blood pressure after 2 weeks and at least monthly thereafter during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Treat patients with anti - hypertensive therapy when hypertension occurs during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Withhold FOTIVDA for severe hypertension despite optimal anti - hypertensive therapy .
For persistent hypertension despite use of anti - hypertensive medications , reduce the FOTIVDA dose [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Discontinue FOTIVDA if hypertension is severe and persistent despite anti - hypertensive therapy and dose reduction of FOTIVDA , or in patients who experience hypertensive crisis .
If FOTIVDA is interrupted , monitor patients receiving anti - hypertensive medications for hypotension .
5 . 2 Cardiac Failure FOTIVDA can cause serious , sometimes fatal , cardiac failure .
Cardiac failure in FOTIVDA - treated patients occurred in 1 . 6 % , with 1 % of events ≥ Grade 3 , and 0 . 6 % events were fatal .
FOTIVDA has not been studied in patients with symptomatic cardiac failure within the preceding 6 months before FOTIVDA treatment initiation .
Periodically monitor patients for symptoms of cardiac failure throughout treatment with FOTIVDA .
Management of cardiac failure events may require interruption , dose reduction , or permanent discontinuation of FOTIVDA therapy [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Cardiac Ischemia and Arterial Thromboembolic Events FOTIVDA can cause serious , sometimes fatal , cardiac ischemia and arterial thromboembolic events .
Cardiac ischemia in FOTIVDA - treated patients occurred in 3 . 2 % , with 1 . 5 % of events ≥ Grade 3 , and 0 . 4 % events were fatal .
Arterial thromboembolic events were reported in 2 % of FOTIVDA - treated patients , including death due to ischemic stroke ( 0 . 1 % ) .
FOTIVDA has not been studied in patients who had an arterial thrombotic event , myocardial infarction , or unstable angina within the preceding 6 months before FOTIVDA treatment initiation .
Closely monitor patients who are at risk for , or who have a history of these events ( such as myocardial infarction and stroke ) , during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Discontinue FOTIVDA in patients who develop any severe or life - threatening arterial thromboembolic event [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Venous Thromboembolic Events FOTIVDA can cause serious , sometimes fatal , venous thromboembolic events .
Venous thromboembolic events occurred in 2 . 4 % of patients treated with FOTIVDA , including death ( 0 . 3 % ) .
Closely monitor patients who are at risk for , or who have a history of these events during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Discontinue FOTIVDA in patients who develop any severe or life - threatening venous thromboembolic event [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hemorrhagic Events FOTIVDA can cause serious , sometimes fatal , hemorrhagic events .
Hemorrhagic events occurred in 11 % of patients treated with FOTIVDA , including death ( 0 . 2 % ) .
FOTIVDA has not been studied in patients with significant bleeding within the preceding 6 months before FOTIVDA treatment initiation .
Closely monitor patients who are at risk for or who have a history of bleeding during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Discontinue FOTIVDA in patients who develop severe or life - threatening hemorrhagic events [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Proteinuria FOTIVDA can cause proteinuria .
Proteinuria occurred in 8 % of FOTIVDA - treated patients with 2 % of events Grade 3 .
Of the patients who developed proteinuria , 3 / 81 ( 3 . 7 % ) had acute kidney injury either concurrently or later during treatment .
Monitor patients for proteinuria before initiation of , and periodically throughout , treatment with FOTIVDA .
For patients who develop moderate to severe proteinuria , reduce the dose or interrupt FOTIVDA treatment .
Discontinue FOTIVDA in patients who develop nephrotic syndrome [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Thyroid Dysfunction FOTIVDA can cause thyroid dysfunction .
Thyroid dysfunction events in FOTIVDA - treated patients occurred in 11 % , with 0 . 3 % Grade 3 or 4 events .
Hypothyroidism was reported in 8 % of patients and hyperthyroidism was reported in 1 % of patients .
Monitor thyroid function before initiation of , and periodically throughout , treatment with FOTIVDA .
Treat hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism to maintain euthyroid state before and during treatment with FOTIVDA .
5 . 8 Risk of Impaired Wound Healing Impaired wound healing can occur in patients who receive drugs that inhibit the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) signaling pathway , such as FOTIVDA .
Therefore , FOTIVDA has the potential to adversely affect wound healing .
Withhold FOTIVDA for at least 24 days prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer for at least 2 weeks following major surgery and until adequate wound healing .
The safety of resumption of FOTIVDA after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
5 . 9 Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) , a syndrome of subcortical vasogenic edema diagnosed by MRI , can occur with FOTIVDA .
Perform an evaluation for RPLS in any patient presenting with seizures , headaches , visual disturbances , confusion , or altered mental function .
Discontinue FOTIVDA in patients who develop RPLS [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 10 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , FOTIVDA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In embryo - fetal developmental studies , oral administration of tivozanib to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis caused maternal toxicity , fetal malformations and embryo - fetal death at doses below the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Advise pregnant woman of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 11 Allergic Reactions to Tartrazine ( FD & C Yellow No . 5 ) FOTIVDA 0 . 89 mg capsule contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) as an imprint ink which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible patients .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are also described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypertension and Hypertensive Crisis [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiac Failure [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cardiac Ischemia and Arterial Thromboembolic Events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Venous Thromboembolic Events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hemorrhagic Events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Proteinuria [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Thyroid Dysfunction [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Risk of Impaired Wound Healing [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) ] The most common ( ≥ 20 % ) adverse reactions were fatigue , hypertension , diarrhea , decreased appetite , nausea , dysphonia , hypothyroidism , cough , and stomatitis , and the most common Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 5 % ) were sodium decreased , lipase increased , and phosphate decreased .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AVEO Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 833 - FOTIVDA ( 1 - 833 - 368 - 4832 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The pooled safety population described in WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS reflect exposure to FOTIVDA administered at 1 . 34 mg orally once daily with or without food for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment for a 28 - day cycle in 1008 patients with advanced RCC in TIVO - 3 and five other monotherapy studies .
Among 1008 patients who received FOTIVDA , 52 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 34 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Relapsed or Refractory Advanced RCC Following Two or More Prior Systemic Therapies The safety of FOTIVDA was evaluated in TIVO - 3 , a randomized , open - label trial in 350 patients with relapsed or refractory advanced RCC who received 2 or 3 prior systemic treatments [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
Patients were randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive FOTIVDA 1 . 34 mg orally once daily for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment for a 28 - day cycle , or to receive sorafenib 400 mg orally twice a day continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Among patients who received FOTIVDA , 53 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 31 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 45 % of patients who received FOTIVDA .
Serious adverse reactions in > 2 % of patients included bleeding ( 3 . 5 % ) , venous thromboembolism ( 3 . 5 % ) , arterial thromboembolism ( 2 . 9 % ) , acute kidney injury ( 2 . 3 % ) , and hepatobiliary disorders ( 2 . 3 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 8 % of patients who received FOTIVDA , including pneumonia ( 1 . 7 % ) , hepatobiliary disorders ( 1 . 2 % ) , respiratory failure ( 1 . 2 % ) , myocardial infarction ( 0 . 6 % ) , cerebrovascular accident ( 0 . 6 % ) , and subdural hematoma ( 0 . 6 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation of FOTIVDA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 21 % of patients .
Adverse reactions which resulted in permanent discontinuation of FOTIVDA in > 2 patients included hepatobiliary disorders , fatigue , and pneumonia .
Dosage interruptions of FOTIVDA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 48 % of patients .
Adverse reactions which required dosage interruption in > 5 % of patients included fatigue , hypertension , decreased appetite , and nausea .
Dose reductions of FOTIVDA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 24 % of patients .
Adverse reactions which required dose reductions in > 3 % of patients included fatigue , diarrhea , and decreased appetite .
The most common ( ≥ 20 % ) adverse reactions were fatigue , hypertension , diarrhea , decreased appetite , nausea , dysphonia , hypothyroidism , cough , and stomatitis , and the most common Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 5 % ) were sodium decreased , lipase increased , and phosphate decreased .
Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions in TIVO - 3 .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 15 % ) in Patients Who Received FOTIVDA in TIVO - 3 Adverse Reaction FOTIVDA ( n = 173 ) Sorafenib ( n = 170 ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Any 99 67 100 72 General Fatigue [ 1 ] 67 13 48 12 Vascular Hypertension [ 2 ] 44 24 31 17 Bleeding [ 3 ] 17 3 12 1 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea [ 4 ] 43 2 54 11 Nausea 30 0 18 4 Stomatitis 21 2 23 2 Vomiting 18 1 17 2 Metabolism and nutrition Decreased appetite 39 5 30 4 Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal Dysphonia 27 1 9 0 Cough 22 0 15 1 Dyspnea 15 3 11 1 Endocrine Hypothyroidism [ 5 ] 24 1 11 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 19 2 16 2 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash [ 6 ] 18 1 52 15 Palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome 16 1 41 17 Investigations Weight decreased 17 3 22 3 [ 1 ] Includes fatigue and asthenia [ 2 ] Includes hypertension , blood pressure increased , hypertensive crisis [ 3 ] Includes hematuria , epistaxis , hemoptysis , hematoma , rectal hemorrhage , vaginal hemorrhage , contusion , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , hematochezia , intraocular hematoma , melena , metrorrhagia , pulmonary hemorrhage , subdural hematoma , gingival bleeding , hematemesis , hemorrhage intracranial , hemorrhoidal hemorrhage , splinter hemorrhages [ 4 ] Includes diarrhea and frequent bowel movements [ 5 ] Includes hypothyroidism , blood thyroid stimulating hormone increased , tri - iodothyronine decreased , tri - iodothyronine free decreased [ 6 ] Includes dermatitis , dermatitis acneiform , dermatitis contact , drug eruption , eczema , eczema nummular , erythema , erythema multiforme , photosensitivity reaction , pruritus , psoriasis , rash , rash erythematous , rash generalized , rash macular , rash maculo - papular , rash morbilliform , rash pruritic , seborrheic dermatitis , skin exfoliation , skin irritation , skin lesion , swelling face , toxic skin eruption , urticaria Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 15 % of patients who received FOTIVDA included proteinuria , venous thromboembolism , arterial thromboembolism , hyperthyroidism , hepatobiliary disorders , osteonecrosis , cardiac failure , and delirium .
Table 3 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in TIVO - 3 .
Table 3 .
Select Laboratory Abnormalities ( ≥ 10 % ) That Worsened from Baseline in Patients with Advanced RCC Who Received FOTIVDALaboratory Abnormality FOTIVDA [ 1 ] ( n = 173 ) Sorafenib null ( n = 170 ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Hematology Lymphocytes decreased 25 5 42 6 Hemoglobin increased 19 0 8 0 Platelets decreased 19 0 18 1 Hemoglobin decreased 16 1 27 4 Chemistry Creatinine increased 50 0 37 1 Glucose increased 50 3 40 0 Phosphate decreased 38 5 63 31 Sodium decreased 36 9 30 11 Lipase increased 32 9 36 10 ALT increased 30 4 29 2 Alkaline phosphatase increased 30 4 32 2 AST increased 28 1 31 2 Potassium increased 26 3 23 0 Magnesium decreased 26 0 23 1 Amylase increased 23 2 28 3 Calcium increased 15 2 7 2 Bilirubin increased 11 3 11 0 Coagulation Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged 26 1 18 0 [ 1 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 139 to 171 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on FOTIVDA Strong CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of FOTIVDA with a strong CYP3A inducer decreases tivozanib exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may reduce FOTIVDA anti - tumor activity .
Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with FOTIVDA .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Can impair fertility .
( 8 . 3 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Adjust dosage in patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animal studies and its mechanism of action , FOTIVDA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on FOTIVDA use in pregnant woman to inform the drug - associated risk .
In embryo - fetal developmental studies , oral administration of tivozanib to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis caused maternal toxicity , fetal malformations and embryo - fetal death at doses below the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant woman of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically - recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % respectively .
Data Animal data In an embryo - fetal developmental study in pregnant rats , daily oral administration of tivozanib at doses ≥ 0 . 03 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) during the period of organogenesis resulted in maternal toxicity , increases in early and late resorptions , and an increase in fetal external malformations ( body edema , short / kinked tail ) , and skeletal developmental delays .
In an embryo - fetal developmental study in pregnant rabbits , daily oral administration of tivozanib at 1 mg / kg / day ( 14 . 5 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) during the period of organogenesis resulted in fetal malformations including ventricular septal defects and major vessel anomalies .
No maternal toxicity was reported at doses up to 1 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tivozanib in human milk , or the effects of tivozanib on the breastfed child , or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise a lactating woman not to breastfeed during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential FOTIVDA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to starting treatment with FOTIVDA .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose [ see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Females and Males Based on findings in animal studies , FOTIVDA can impair fertility in females and males of reproductive potential [ see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of FOTIVDA in pediatric patients have not been established .
Animal Data Juvenile animal studies have not been conducted with tivozanib .
In a 13 - week repeat - dose study , oral administration of tivozanib to young and growing cynomolgus monkeys resulted in growth plate hypertrophy , absence of active corpora lutea , and no maturing follicles at doses ≥ 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 4 . 4 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 13 - week repeat - dose study in rats , teeth abnormalities ( thin , brittle teeth , tooth loss , malocclusions ) and growth plate hypertrophy were observed following oral administration of tivozanib at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1008 patients with advanced RCC treated with FOTIVDA , 29 % were ≥ 65 years of age and 4 % were ≥ 75 of age .
No overall differences in safety were observed between patients ≥ 65 versus < 65 years of age .
Of the 175 patients with advanced RCC following two or more prior systemic therapies randomized to FOTIVDA , 44 % were ≥ 65 years of age and 9 % were ≥ 75 of age .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between patients ≥ 65 versus < 65 years of age .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage modification is recommended for patients with mild to severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] 15 - 89 mL / min , estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) .
The recommended dosage for patients with end - stage renal disease has not been established [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Reduce the dosage when administering FOTIVDA in patients with moderate ( total bilirubin greater than 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN with any AST ) hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
No dosage modification is recommended for patients with mild ( total bilirubin less than or equal to ULN with AST greater than ULN or total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN with any AST ) hepatic impairment .
The recommended dosage of FOTIVDA in patients with severe ( total bilirubin greater than 3 to 10 times ULN with any AST ) hepatic impairment has not been established [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with FOTIVDA can cause severe hypertension and hypertensive crisis that may result in death [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
During clinical studies , three patients inadvertently received doses ≥ 2 . 68 mg ( ≥ 2 times the recommended dose ) of FOTIVDA .
One patient who received two daily doses of 8 . 9 mg of FOTIVDA experienced hypertensive crisis with severe hypertensive retinopathy ; a second patient who received three doses of 1 . 34 mg in one day experienced fatal uncontrolled hypertension ; and a third patient who received two doses of 1 . 34 mg FOTIVDA in one day experienced persistent hypertension lasting over 5 days .
There is no specific treatment or antidote for FOTIVDA overdose .
In cases of suspected overdose , withhold FOTIVDA , closely monitor patients for hypertension and hypertensive crisis and other potential adverse reactions .
Immediately manage signs or symptoms of hypertension and provide other supportive care as clinically indicated .
11 DESCRIPTION Tivozanib is a kinase inhibitor .
Tivozanib hydrochloride , the active ingredient , has the chemical name 1 - { 2 - chloro - 4 - [ ( 6 , 7 - dimethoxyquinolin - 4 - yl ) oxy ] phenyl } - 3 - ( 5 - methylisoxazol - 3 - yl ) urea hydrochloride hydrate .
The molecular formula is C22H19ClN4O5 ∙ HCl ∙ H2O and the molecular weight is 509 . 34 Daltons .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tivozanib hydrochloride is a white to light brown crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water ( 0 . 09 mg / mL ) .
FOTIVDA 1 . 34 mg capsule contains 1 . 5 mg of tivozanib hydrochloride ( equivalent to 1 . 34 mg tivozanib ) with inactive ingredients : mannitol and magnesium stearate .
Capsule composition : gelatin , titanium dioxide , FDA yellow iron oxide , and Blue SB - 6018 ( ink ) .
FOTIVDA 0 . 89 mg capsule contains 1 . 0 mg of tivozanib hydrochloride ( equivalent to 0 . 89 mg tivozanib ) with inactive ingredients : mannitol and magnesium stearate .
Capsule composition : gelatin , titanium dioxide , FDA yellow iron oxide , FD & C Blue # 2 , Blue SB - 6018 ( ink ) and Yellow SB - 3017 ( ink ) .
The Yellow SB - 3017 ink contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tivozanib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor .
In vitro cellular kinase assays demonstrated that tivozanib inhibits phosphorylation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor ( VEGFR ) - 1 , VEGFR - 2 and VEGFR - 3 and inhibits other kinases including c - kit and PDGFR β at clinically relevant concentrations .
In tumor xenograft models in mice and rats , tivozanib inhibited angiogenesis , vascular permeability , and tumor growth of various tumor cell types including human renal cell carcinoma .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Exposure - Response Relationship Tivozanib exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamic response have not been fully characterized .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the recommended dose of FOTIVDA , no large mean increases ( i . e . , 20 msec ) in QTc interval were observed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of tivozanib were evaluated in patients with solid tumors administered 1 . 34 mg once daily unless otherwise specified .
Steady - state tivozanib AUC and Cmax increased in a dose - proportional manner over the dose range of 0 . 89 to 1 . 78 mg once daily ( 0 . 67 to 1 . 3 times the recommended dose ) .
Steady - state was reached by 14 days and the accumulation ratio after administration of 1 . 34 mg once daily was approximately 6 - to 7 - fold .
Mean steady - state tivozanib [ coefficient of variation ( CV % ) ] Cmax was 86 . 9 ( 44 . 7 % ) ng / mL and AUC0 - 24 h was 1510 ( 46 . 1 % ) ng * h / mL .
Absorption The median Tmax of tivozanib is 10 hours with a range of 3 to 24 hours .
Effect of Food No clinically significant differences in tivozanib AUC or Cmax were observed following administration of a high fat meal ( approximately 500 - 600 fat calories , 250 carbohydrate calories and 150 protein calories ) in healthy subjects .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of tivozanib is 123 L . Protein binding of tivozanib is ≥ 99 % , primarily to albumin in vitro and is independent of concentration .
The mean blood - to - plasma concentration ratios ranged from 0 . 495 to 0 . 615 in healthy subjects .
Elimination The apparent clearance ( CL / F ) of tivozanib is 0 . 75 L / h and the half - life is 111 hours .
Metabolism Tivozanib is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4 .
Following oral administration of a single radiolabeled 1 . 34 mg dose of tivozanib to healthy subjects , unchanged tivozanib constituted 90 % of the radioactive drug components in serum .
Excretion Following oral administration of a single radiolabeled 1 . 34 mg dose of tivozanib to healthy subjects , 79 % of the administered dose was recovered in feces ( 26 % unchanged ) and 12 % in urine ( unchanged tivozanib not detected ) .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of tivozanib were observed based on age ( 18 years to 88 years ) , sex , race ( 93 % Caucasian , 3 % African American , 2 % Asian , 2 % others ) , body weight ( 39 kg to 158 kg ) , mild to severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 - 89 mL / min as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) or mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin less than or equal to ULN with AST greater than ULN or total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN with any AST ) .
The effect of end - stage renal disease or severe hepatic impairment on tivozanib pharmacokinetics is unknown [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Compared to subjects with normal hepatic function , tivozanib AUCtau increased by 1 % in patients with mild ( total bilirubin less than or equal to ULN with AST greater than ULN or total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN with any AST ) hepatic impairment .
Compared to subjects with normal hepatic function , tivozanib AUCtau increased by 62 % in patients with moderate ( total bilirubin greater than 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN with any AST ) hepatic impairment .
The effect of severe ( total bilirubin greater than 3 to 10 times ULN with any AST ) hepatic impairment on tivozanib pharmacokinetics has not been studied [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Strong CYP3A Inducers : Concomitant use of multiple doses of rifampin ( strong CYP3A inducer ) did not change tivozanib Cmax but decreased tivozanib AUC0 - INF by 52 % .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of tivozanib were observed when multiple doses of ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A inhibitor ) was coadministered with tivozanib .
In Vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : Tivozanib does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 at clinically relevant concentrations .
Tivozanib does not induce CYP1A , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , or CYP3A at clinically relevant concentrations .
Uridine Diphosphate ( UDP ) - glucuronosyl Transferase ( UGT ) Enzymes : Tivozanib does not inhibit UGT at clinically relevant concentrations .
Transporter Systems : Tivozanib inhibits BCRP but does not inhibit P - gp , OCT1 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , BSEP , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , MATE1 or MATE2 - K at clinically relevant concentrations .
Tivozanib is not a substrate for P - gp , MRP2 , BCRP , OCT1 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , or BSEP .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with tivozanib .
Tivozanib was not mutagenic in a bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay and was not clastogenic in an in vitro cytogenetic assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
In animal studies assessing mating and fertility parameters , oral doses ≥ 0 . 03 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) in rats were associated with increased epididymis and testis weights , and doses ≥ 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) reduced mating and produced infertility .
An increase in embryo lethality was noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the maximum recommended clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of FOTIVDA was evaluated in TIVO - 3 ( NCT02627963 ) , a randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , open - label , multicenter trial of FOTIVDA versus sorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory advanced RCC who received 2 or 3 prior systemic treatments including at least one VEGFR kinase inhibitor other than sorafenib or tivozanib .
Patients were randomized to receive FOTIVDA 1 . 34 mg orally once daily for 21 days on treatment followed by 7 days off treatment for a 28 - day cycle , or to receive sorafenib 400 mg orally twice a day continuously , until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Randomization was stratified by prior therapy [ two kinase inhibitors ( KIs ) , a KI plus an immune checkpoint inhibitor , or a KI plus other systemic agents ] and by International Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Database Consortium ( IMDC ) prognostic score .
Patients were excluded if they had more than 3 prior treatments or Central Nervous System metastases .
The main efficacy outcome measure was progression - free survival ( PFS ) assessed by a blinded independent radiology review committee .
Other efficacy endpoints were objective response rate ( ORR ) and overall survival ( OS ) .
The median age was 63 years ( range : 30 to 90 years ) , 73 % were male , 95 % were Caucasian , ECOG performance status was 0 in 48 % and 1 in 49 % of patients ( respectively ) , and 98 % of patients had clear cell or clear cell component histology .
Prior therapy included two KIs ( 45 % ) , a KI plus an immune checkpoint inhibitor ( 26 % ) , and a KI plus another systemic agent ( 29 % ) .
At the time of study entry , 20 % of patients had favorable , 61 % intermediate , and 19 % poor IMDC prognoses .
Efficacy results are summarized in Table 4 and Figure 1 .
Table 4 .
Efficacy Results in TIVO - 3 ( ITT ) Endpoint FOTIVDA N = 175 Sorafenib N = 175 CI : Confidence interval ; HR : Hazard ratio ( FOTIVDA / sorafenib ) ; NE : not estimable .
Progression Free Survival ( PFS ) [ 1 ] Events , n ( % ) 123 ( 70 ) 123 ( 70 ) Progressive Disease 103 ( 59 ) 109 ( 62 ) Death 20 ( 11 ) 14 ( 8 ) Median ( 95 % CI ) , months 5 . 6 ( 4 . 8 , 7 . 3 ) 3 . 9 ( 3 . 7 , 5 . 6 ) HR ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] 0 . 73 ( 0 . 56 , 0 . 95 ) P - value [ 3 ] 0 . 016 Overall Survival Deaths , n ( % ) 125 ( 71 ) 126 ( 72 ) Median ( 95 % CI ) , months 16 . 4 ( 13 . 4 , 21 . 9 ) 19 . 2 ( 14 . 9 , 24 . 2 ) HR ( 95 % CI ) null 0 . 97 ( 0 . 75 , 1 . 24 ) Objective Response Rate % ( 95 % CI ) null 18 ( 12 , 24 ) 8 ( 4 , 13 ) Median duration of response in months ( 95 % CI ) NE ( 9 . 8 , NE ) 5 . 7 ( 5 . 6 , NE ) [ 1 ] Assessed by blinded independent radiology review committee according to RECIST v1 . 1 .
[ 2 ] Based on the Cox proportional hazards model stratified by IMDC prognostic score and prior therapy .
[ 3 ] Based on the log - rank test stratified by IMDC prognostic score and prior therapy .
Figure 1 .
Kaplan - Meier Plot of PFS in TIVO - 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied FOTIVDA ( tivozanib ) capsules , for oral use are supplied as follows : Capsule Strength Opaque Capsule Color Capsule Markings Pack Size NDC Code Tivozanib 1 . 34 mg ( equivalent to 1 . 5 mg tivozanib hydrochloride ) Bright yellow cap and body " TIVZ " imprinted with dark blue ink on cap ; " SD " imprinted with dark blue ink on body Bottle of 21 NDC 45629 - 134 - 01 Tivozanib 0 . 89 mg ( equivalent to 1 . 0 mg tivozanib hydrochloride ) Dark blue cap and bright yellow body " TIVZ " imprinted with yellow ink on cap ; " LD " imprinted with dark blue ink on body Bottle of 21 NDC 45629 - 089 - 01 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( PATIENT INFORMATION ) .
Hypertension and Hypertensive Crisis Inform patients that hypertension or hypertensive crisis may occur during FOTIVDA treatment .
Advise patients to undergo routine blood pressure monitoring and to contact their healthcare provider if blood pressure is elevated .
Advise patients that if they experience signs or symptoms of hypertension to immediately contact their healthcare provider [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Cardiac Failure Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider if they develop symptoms of cardiac failure [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cardiac Ischemia and Arterial Thromboembolic Events Inform patients that arterial thromboembolic events ( including fatal outcomes ) may occur during FOTIVDA treatment .
Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider if new onset of chest discomfort , sudden weakness , or other events suggestive of a thrombotic event occurs [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Venous Thromboembolic Events Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider if they develop symptoms of dyspnea or localized limb edema [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hemorrhagic Events Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider to seek immediate medical attention for signs or symptoms of unusual bleeding or hemorrhage [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Risk of Impaired Wound Healing Inform patients that FOTIVDA may impair wound healing .
Advise patients that temporary interruption of FOTIVDA is recommended prior to elective surgery .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider before any planned surgeries , including dental surgery [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Reverse Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome Inform patients that RPLS may occur during FOTIVDA treatment .
Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider in the event of seizures , headaches , visual disturbances , confusion or difficulty thinking [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Overdosage Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if they inadvertently take too much FOTIVDA [ see OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 10 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with FOTIVDA and for one month after the last dose [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males and females of reproductive potential that FOTIVDA can impair fertility [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Allergic Reactions to Tartrazine ( FD & C Yellow No . 5 ) FOTIVDA 0 . 89 mg capsule contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) as an imprint ink which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible patients .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Other Common Events Advise patients that other adverse reactions with FOTIVDA treatment may include diarrhea , vomiting , dysphonia ( hoarseness of voice ) , fatigue , asthenia and stomatitis ( sores in the mouth ) , and cough [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Important Administration Information Instruct patient if a dose of FOTIVDA is missed , the next dose should be taken at the regularly scheduled time .
Do not take two doses in the same day [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider of all concomitant medications , vitamins , or dietary and herbal supplements [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
Manufactured for : AVEO Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Boston , MA 02108 Manufactured by : Catalent CTS , Inc .
Kansas City , MO 64137 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 03 / 2021 PATIENT INFORMATION FOTIVDA ® ( fo - TIV - dah ) ( tivozanib ) capsules What is FOTIVDA ?
FOTIVDA is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with advanced kidney cancer ( advanced renal cell carcinoma or RCC ) that has been treated with 2 or more prior medicines and has come back or did not respond to treatment .
It is not known if FOTIVDA is safe and effective in children .
Before taking FOTIVDA , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have high blood pressure .
• have a history of heart failure .
• have a history of blood clots in your veins or arteries ( types of blood vessels ) , including stroke , heart attack , or change in vision .
• have bleeding problems .
• have thyroid problems .
• have liver problems .
• have an unhealed wound .
• plan to have surgery or have had recent surgery , including dental surgery .
You should stop taking FOTIVDA at least 24 days before planned surgery .
See " What are the possible side effects of FOTIVDA ? "
• are allergic to FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) or aspirin .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
FOTIVDA can harm your unborn baby .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider should do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with FOTIVDA .
• Use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment and for 1 month after your last dose of FOTIVDA .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods that may be right for you during this time .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you might be pregnant during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant : • Use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment and for 1 month after your last dose of FOTIVDA .
• If your female partner becomes pregnant during your treatment with FOTIVDA , tell your healthcare provider right away .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if FOTIVDA passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for 1 month after your last dose of FOTIVDA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking FOTIVDA with certain other medicines may affect how FOTIVDA works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take FOTIVDA ?
• Take FOTIVDA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Take FOTIVDA 1 time each day for 21 days on treatment , followed by 7 days off treatment .
This is 1 cycle of treatment .
You will repeat this cycle for as long as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• FOTIVDA can be taken with or without food .
• Swallow the FOTIVDA capsule whole with a glass of water .
Do not open the capsule .
• If you miss a dose of FOTIVDA , take your next dose at your next scheduled time .
Do not take 2 doses in the same day .
• If you take too much FOTIVDA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of FOTIVDA ?
FOTIVDA may cause serious side effects , including : • High blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
High blood pressure is common with FOTIVDA and may sometimes be severe .
FOTIVDA may also cause a sudden , severe increase in your blood pressure ( hypertensive crisis ) that can lead to death .
Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure after 2 weeks and at least monthly during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Your healthcare provider may prescribe medicine to treat your high blood pressure if you develop blood pressure problems .
You should check your blood pressure regularly during treatment with FOTIVDA and tell your healthcare provider if you have increased blood pressure .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms : • confusion • headaches • dizziness • chest pain • shortness of breath • Heart failure .
FOTIVDA can cause heart failure which can be serious , and sometimes lead to death .
Your healthcare provider should check you for symptoms of heart failure regularly during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get symptoms of heart problems , such as shortness of breath or swelling of your ankles .
• Heart attack and blood clots in your veins or arteries .
FOTIVDA can cause blood clots which can be serious , and sometimes lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms : • new chest pain or pressure • numbness or weakness on one side of your body • pain in your arms , back , neck or jaw • trouble talking • shortness of breath • sudden severe headache • vision changes • swelling in the arms or legs • Bleeding problems .
FOTIVDA can cause bleeding which can be serious , and sometimes lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you develop any of the following signs or symptoms : • unusual bleeding from the gums • red or black stools ( looks like tar ) • menstrual bleeding or vaginal bleeding that is heavier than normal • bruises that happen without a known cause or get larger • headaches , feeling dizzy or weak • bleeding that is severe or you cannot control • coughing up blood or blood clots • pink or brown urine • vomiting blood or your vomit looks like " coffee grounds " • unexpected pain , swelling , or joint pain • Protein in your urine .
Your healthcare provider should check your urine for protein before and during your treatment with FOTIVDA .
• Thyroid gland problems .
Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check your thyroid gland function before and during your treatment with FOTIVDA .
Your healthcare provider may prescribe medicine if you develop thyroid gland problems .
• Risk of wound healing problems .
Wounds may not heal properly during FOTIVDA treatment .
Tell your healthcare provider if you plan to have surgery before starting or during treatment with FOTIVDA , including dental surgery .
• You should stop taking FOTIVDA at least 24 days before planned surgery .
• Your healthcare provider should tell you when you may start taking FOTIVDA again after surgery .
• Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) .
A condition called reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) can happen during treatment with FOTIVDA .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get : • headaches • seizures • confusion • blindness or change in vision • difficulty thinking • Allergic reactions to tartrazine ( FD & C Yellow No . 5 ) .
FOTIVDA 0 . 89 mg capsules contain a dye called FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions , including bronchial asthma , in certain people .
This allergic reaction is most often seen in people who also have an allergy to aspirin .
The most common side effects of FOTIVDA include : • tiredness • diarrhea • decreased appetite • nausea • hoarseness • low levels of thyroid hormones • cough • mouth sores • decreased levels of salt ( sodium ) and phosphate in the blood • increased levels of lipase in the blood ( a blood test done to check your pancreas ) Other side effects include vomiting and weakness or lack of energy .
FOTIVDA may cause fertility problems in males and females , which may affect your ability to have a child .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose , temporarily stop , or permanently stop treatment with FOTIVDA if you have certain side effects .
These are not all of the possible side effects of FOTIVDA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store FOTIVDA ?
• Store FOTIVDA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep FOTIVDA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of FOTIVDA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use FOTIVDA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give FOTIVDA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about FOTIVDA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in FOTIVDA ?
Active ingredient : tivozanib hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : mannitol and magnesium stearate .
The capsule contains gelatin , titanium dioxide , FDA yellow iron oxide , and Blue SB - 6018 ( ink ) .
The 0 . 89 mg capsule also contains FD & C Blue # 2 and Yellow SB - 3017 ( ink ) .
The Yellow SB - 3017 ink contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) .
Manufactured for : AVEO Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Boston , MA 02108 Manufactured by : Catalent CTS , Inc .
Kansas City , MO 64137 For more information go to www . fotivda . com or call 1 - 833 - FOTIVDA ( 1 - 833 - 368 - 4832 ) .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 89 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 45629 - 089 - 01 FOTIVDA ® ( tivozanib ) capsules 0 . 89 mg Contains color additives including FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) AVEO ONCOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 34 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 45629 - 134 - 01 FOTIVDA ® ( tivozanib ) capsules 1 . 34 mg AVEO ONCOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
