CONTRAINDICATION Cilostazol and several of its metabolites are inhibitors of phosphodiesterase III .
Several drugs with this pharmacologic effect have caused decreased survival compared to placebo in patients with class III - IV congestive heart failure .
Cilostazol is contraindicated in patients with congestive heart failure of any severity .
DESCRIPTION Cilostazol is a quinolinone derivative that inhibits cellular phosphodiesterase ( more specific for phosphodiesterase III ) .
The empirical formula of cilostazol is C20H27N5O2 , and its molecular weight is 369 . 46 .
Cilostazol is 6 - [ 4 - ( 1 - cyclohexyl - 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) butoxy ] - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 ( 1 H ) - quinolinone , CAS - 73963 - 72 - 1 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cilostazol occurs as white to off - white crystals or as a crystalline powder that is slightly soluble in methanol and ethanol , and is practically insoluble in water , 0 . 1 N HCl , and 0 . 1 N NaOH .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP for oral administration are available as 50 mg or 100 mg round , white debossed tablets .
Each tablet , in addition to the active ingredient , contains the following inactive ingredients : carboxymethylcellulose calcium , corn starch , hypromellose , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action The mechanism of the effects of Cilostazol Tablets , USP on the symptoms of intermittent claudication is not fully understood .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP and several of its metabolities are cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) phosphodiesterase III inhibitors ( PDE III inhibitors ) , inhibiting phosphodiesterase activity and suppressing cAMP degration with a resultant increase in cAMP in platelets and blood vessels , leading to inhibition of platelet aggregation and vasodilation , respectively .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP inhibits platelet aggregation induced by a variety of stimuli , including thrombin , ADP , collagen , arachidonic acid , epinephrine , and shear stress .
Effects on circulating plasma lipids have been examined in patients taking Cilostazol Tablets , USP .
After 12 weeks , as compared to placebo , Cilostazol Tablets , USP 100 mg b . i . d . produced a reduction in triglycerides of 29 . 3 mg / dL ( 15 % ) and an increase in HDL - cholesterol of 4 . 0 mg / dL ( ≡ 10 % ) .
Cardiovascular Effects Cilostazol affects both vascular beds and cardiovascular function .
It produces non - homogeneous dilation of vascular beds , with greater dilation in femoral beds than in vertebral , carotid or superior mesenteric arteries .
Renal arteries were not responsive to the effects of cilostazol .
In dogs or cynomolgous monkeys , cilostazol increased heart rate , myocardial contractile force , and coronary blood flow as well as ventricular automaticity , as would be expected for a PDE III inhibitor .
Left ventricular contractility was increased at doses required to inhibit platelet aggregation .
A - V conduction was accelerated .
In humans , heart rate increased in a dose - proportional manner by a mean of 5 . 1 and 7 . 4 beats per minute in patients treated with 50 and 100 mg b . i . d . , respectively .
In 264 patients evaluated with Holter monitors , numerically more cilostazol - treated patients had increases in ventricular premature beats and non - sustained ventricular tachycardia events than did placebo - treated ; the increases were not dose - related .
Pharmacokinetics Cilostazol Tablets , USP is absorbed after oral administration .
A high fat meal increases absorption , with an approximately 90 % increase in Cmax and a 25 % increase in AUC .
Absolute bioavailability is not known .
Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , mainly 3A4 , and , to a lesser extent , 2C19 , with metabolites largely excreted in urine .
Two metabolites are active , with one metabolite appearing to account for at least 50 % of the pharmacologic ( PDE III inhibition ) activity after administration of Cilostazol Tablets , USP .
Pharmacokinetics are approximately dose proportional .
Cilostazol and its active metabolites have apparent elimination half - lives of about 11 to 13 hours .
Cilostazol and its active metabolites accumulate about 2 - fold with chronic administration and reach steady state blood levels within a few days .
The pharmacokinetics of cilostazol and its two major active metabolites were similar in healthy normal subjects and patients with intermittent claudication due to peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
The mean ± SEM plasma concentration - time profile at steady state after multiple dosing of Cilostazol Tablets , USP 100 mg b . i . d . is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution Plasma Protein and Erythrocyte Binding : Cilostazol is 95 to 98 % protein bound , predominantly to albumin .
The mean percent binding for 3 , 4 - dehydro - cilostazol is 97 . 4 % and for 4 ' - trans - hydroxy - cilostazol is 66 % .
Mild hepatic impairment did not affect protein binding .
The free fraction of cilostazol was 27 % higher in subjects with renal impairment than in normal volunteers .
The displacement of cilostazol from plasma proteins by erythromycin , quinidine , warfarin , and omeprazole was not clinically significant .
Metabolism and Excretion : Cilostazol is elminated predominately by metabolism and subsequent urinary excretion of metabolites .
Based on in vitro studies , the primary isoenzymes involved in cilostazol ' s metabolism are CYP3A4 and , to a lesser extent , CYP2C19 .
The enzyme responsible for metabolism of 3 , 4 - dehydro - cilostazol , the most active of the metabolites , is unknown .
Following oral administration of 100 mg radiolabeled cilostazol , 56 % of the total analytes in plasma was cilostazol , 15 % was 3 , 4 - dehydro - cilostazol ( 4 to 7 times as active as cilostazol ) , and 4 % was 4 ' - trans - hydroxy - cilostazol ( one fifth as active as cilostazol ) .
The primary route of elimination was via the urine ( 74 % ) , with the remainder excreted in feces ( 20 % ) .
No measurable amount of unchanged cilostazol was excreted in the urine , and less than 2 % of the dose was excreted as 3 , 4 - dehydro - cilostazol .
About 30 % of the dose was excreted in urine as 4 ' trans - hydroxy - cilostazol .
The remainder was excreted asother metabolites , non of which exceeded 5 % .
There was no evidence of induction of hepatic microenzymes .
Special Populations : Age and Gender The total and unbound oral clearances , adjusted for body weight , of cilostazol and its metabolites were not significantly different with respect to age and / or gender across a 50 - to - 80 - year - old age range .
Smokers Population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that smoking decreased cilostazol exposure by about 20 % .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of cilostazol and its metabolites were similar with mild hepatic disease as compared to healthy subjects .
Patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment have not been studied .
Renal Impairment The total pharmacologic activity of cilostazol and its metabolites was similar in subjects with mild to moderate renal impairment and in normal subjects .
Severe renal impairment increases metabolite levels and alters protein bindingof the parent and metabolites .
The expected pharmacologic activity , however , based on plasma concentrations and relative PDE III inhibiting potency of patent drug and metabolites , appeared little changed .
Patients on dialysis have not been studied , but , it is unlikely that cilostazol can be removed efficiently by dialysis because of its high protein binding ( 95 to 98 % ) .
Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Drug - Drug Interactions : Cilostazol could have pharmacodynamic interactions with other inhibitors of platelet function and pharmacokinetic interactions because of effects of other drugs on its metabolism by CYP3A4 or CYP2C19 .
A reduced dose of Cilostazol Tablets , USP should be considered when taken concomitantly with CYP3A4 or CYP2C19 inhibitors .
Cilostazol does not appear to inhibit CYP3A4 ( see Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Drug - Drug Interactions , Lovastatin ) .
Aspirin Short - term ( ≤ 4 days ) coadministration of aspirin with Cilostazol Tablets , USP increased the inhibition of arachidonic acid - induced ex vivoplatelet aggregation by 20 % compared to Cilostazol Tablets , USP alone and by 48 % compared to aspirin alone .
However , short - term coadministration of aspirin with Cilostazol Tablets , USP had no clinically significant impact on PT , aPTT , or bleeding time compared to aspirin alone .
Effects of long - term coadministration in the general population are unknown .
In eight randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind clinical trials , aspirin was coadministered with cilostazol to 201 patients .
The most frequent doses and mean durations of aspirin therapy wer 75 to 81 mg daily for 137 days ( 107 patients ) and 325 mg daily for 54 days ( 85 patients ) .
There was no apparent increases in incidence of hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to patients taking placebo and equivalent doses of aspirin .
Warfarin The cytochrome P - 450 isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of R - warfarin are CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 , and CYP2C19 , and in the metabolism of S - warfarin , CYP2C9 .
Cilostazol did not inhibit either the metabolism or the pharmacologic effects ( PT , aPTT , bleeding time , or platelet aggregation ) of R - and S - warfarin after a single 25 - mg dose of warfarin .
The effecr of concomitant multiple dosing of warfarin and Cilostozol Tablets , USP on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of both drugs is unknown .
Clopidogrel Mulitiple doses of clopidogrel do not significantly increase steadystate plasma concentrations of cilostzol .
INHIBITORS OF CYP3A4 Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A4 : A priming dose of ketoconazole 400 mg ( a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 ) , was given one day prior to coadminstration of single doses of ketoconazole 400 mg and cilostazol 100 mg .
This regimen increased cilostazol Cmax by 94 % and AUC by 117 % .
Other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 , such as intraconazole , fluconazole , miconazole , fluvoxamine , fluoxetine , nefazodone , and sertraline , would be expected to have a similar effect ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 : 1 .
Erythromycin and other macrolide antibiotics : Erythromycin is a moderately strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 .
Coadministration of erythromycin 500 mg q 8 h with a single dose of cilostazol 100 mg increased cilostazol Cmax by 47 % and AUC by 73 % .
Inhibition of cilostazol metabolism by erythromycin increased the AUC of 4 ' - trans - hydroxy - cilostazol by 141 % .
Other macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , clarithromycin ) , but not all ( e . g . azithromycin ) , would be expected to have a similar efect ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
2 .
Diltiazem : Diltiazem 180 mg decreased the clearance of cilostazol by ~ 30 % and AUC increased ~ 40 % ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINITRATION ) .
3 .
Grapefruit Juice : Grapefruit juice increased the Cmax of cilostazol by ~ 50 % , but had not effect on AUC .
INHIBITORS OF CYP2C19 Omeprazole : Coadministration of omeprazole did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol , but the systemic exposure to 3 , 4 - dehydro - cilostazol was increased by 69 % , probably the result of omeprazole ' s potent inhibition of CYP2C19 ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Quinidine Concomitant administration of quinidine with a single dose of cilostazol 100 mg did not alter cilostazol pharmacokinetics .
Lovastatin The concomitant administration of lovastatin with cilostazol decreases cilostazol Css , max and AUC , by 15 % .
There is also a decrease , although nonsignificant , in cilostazole metaboite concentrations .
Coadministration of cilostazole with lovastatin increased lovastatin and β - hydroxi lovastatin AUC approximately 70 % .
This is most likely clinically insignificant .
CLINICAL STUDIES : The ability of Cilostazol Tablets , USP to improve walking distance in patients with stable intermittent claudication was studied in eight large , randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trials of 12 to 24 weeks ’ duration using dosages of 50 mg b . i . d . ( n = 303 ) , 100 mg b . i . d . ( n = 998 ) , and placebo ( n = 973 ) .
Efficacy was determined primarily by the change in maximal walking distance from baseline ( compared to change on placebo ) on one of several standardized exercise treadmill tests .
Compared to patients treated with placebo , patients treated with Cilostazol Tablets , USP 50 or 100 mg b . i . d . experienced statistically significant improvements in walking distances both for the distance before the onset of claudication pain and the distance before exercise - limiting symptoms supervened ( maximal walking distance ) .
The effect of Cilostazol Tablets , USP on walking distance was seen as early as the first on - therapy observation point of two or four weeks .
The following figure depicts the percent mean improvement in maximal walking distance at study end for each of the eight studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Across the eight clinical trials , the range of improvement in maximal walking distance in patients treated with Cilostazol Tablets , USP 100 mg b . i . d . , expressed as the percent mean change from baseline , was 28 % to 100 % .
The corresponding changes in the placebo group were – 10 % to 41 % .
The Walking Impairment Questionnaire , which was administered in six of the eight clinical trials , assesses the impact of a therapeutic intervention on walking ability .
In a pooled analysis of the six trials , patients treated with either Cilostazol Tablets , USP 100 mg b . i . d . or 50 mg b . i . d . reported improvements in their walking speed and walking distance as compared to placebo .
Improvements in walking performance were seen in the various subpopulations evaluated , including those defined by gender , smoking status , diabetes mellitus , duration of peripheral artery disease , age , and concomitant use of beta blockers or of calcium channel blockers .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP has not been studied in patients with rapidly progressing claudication or in patients with leg pain at rest , ischemic leg ulcers , or gangrene .
Its long - term effects on limb preservation and hospitalization have not been evaluated .
A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled Phase IV study was conducted to assess the long - term effects of cilostazol , with respect to mortality and safety , in 1 , 439 patients with the intermittent claudication and no heart failure .
The trial stopped early due to enrollment difficulties and a lower than expected overall death rate .
With respect to mortality , the observed 36 - month Kaplan - Meier event rate for deaths on study drug with a median time of 18 months was 5 . 6 % ( 95 % CI of 2 . 8 to 8 . 4 % ) on cilostazol and 6 . 8 % ( 95 % CI of 1 . 9 to 11 . 5 % ) on placebo .
These data appear to be sufficient to exclude a 75 % increase in the risk of mortality on cilostazol , which s the a priori study hypothesis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cilostazol Tablets , USP are indicated for the reduction of symptoms of intermittent claudication , as indicated by an increased walking distance .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cilostazol and several of its metabolites are inhibitors of phosphodiesterase III .
Several drugs with this pharmacologic effect have caused decreased survival compared to placebo in patients with class III - IV congestive heart failure .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with congestive heart failure of any severity .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with haemostatic disorders or active pathologic bleeding , such as bleeding peptic ulcer and intracranial bleeding .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP inhibit platelet aggregation in a reversible manner .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Hematologic Adverse Reactions Rare cases have been reported of thrombocytopenia or leucopenia progressing to agranulocytosis when cilostazol was not immediately discontinued .
The agranulocytosis , however , was reversible on discontinuation of Cilostazol .
Use with Clopidogrel There is limited information with respect to the efficacy or safety of the concurrent use of cilostazol and clopidogrel , a platelet - aggregation inhibiting drug indicated for use in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
Although it cannot be determined whether there was an additive effect on bleeding times during concomitant administration with cilostazol and clopidogrel , caution is advised for checking bleeding times during coadministration .
Information for Patients Please refer to the patient package insert .
Patients should be advised : • to read the patient package insert for Cilostazol Tablets USPcarefully before starting therapy and to reread it each time therapy is renewed in case the information has changed .
• to take cilostazol at least one - half hour before or two hours after food .
• that the beneficial effects of cilostazol on the symptoms of intermittent claudication may not be immediate .
Although the patient may experience benefit in 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy , treatment for up to 12 weeks may be required before a beneficial effect is experienced .
Hepatic Impairment Patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment have not been studied in clinical trials .
Special caution is advised when Cilostazol Tablets , USP is used in such patients .
Renal Impairment Patients on dialysis have not been studied , but , it is unlikely that cilostazol can be removed efficiently by dialysis because of its high protein binding ( 95 to 98 % ) .
Special caution is advised when Cilostazol Tablets , USP is used in patients with severe renal impairment ; estimated creatinine clearence , < 25 ml / min .
Drug Interactions Since Cilostazol Tablets , USP is extensively metabolized by cytochrome P - 450 isoenzymes , caution should be exercised when Cilostazol Tablets , USP is coadministered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as ketoconazole and erythromycin or inhibitors of CYP2C19 such as omeprazole .
Pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated that omeprazole and erythromycin significantly increased the systemic exposure of cilostazol and / or its major metabolites .
Population pharmacokinetic studies showed higher concentrations of cilostazol among patients concurrently treated with diltiazem , an inhibitor of CYP3A4 ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetic andPharmacodynamic Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
Cilostazol Tablets , USP does not , however , appear to cause increased blood levels of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 , as it had no effect on lovastatin , a drug with metabolism very sensitive to CYP3A4 inhibition .
Use with other antiplatelet agents Cilostazol Tablets , USP inhibits platelet aggregation but in a reversible manner .
Cuation is advised in patients at risk of bleeding from surgery or pathologic processes .
Platelet aggregability returns to normal within 96 hours of stopping Cilostazole Tablets , USP .
Cuation is advised in patients receiving both Cilostazol Tablets , USP and any other antiplatelet agent , or in patients with thrombocytopenia .
Cardiovascular Toxicity Repeated oral administration of cilostazol to dogs ( 30 or more mg / kg / day for 52 weeks , 150 or more mg / kg / day for 13 weeks , and 450 mg / kg / day for 2 weeks ) , produced cardiovascular lesions that included endocardial haemorrhage , hemosiderin deposition and fibrosis inthe left ventricle , haemorrhage in the right atrial wall , haemorrhage and necrosis of the smooth muscle in the wall of the coronary artery , intimal thickening of the coronary artery , and coronary arteritis and periarteritis .
At the lowest dose associated with cardiovascular lesions in the 52 - week study , systemic exposure ( AUC ) tounbound cilostazol was less than that seen in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 100 mg b . i . d . Similar lesions have been reported in dogs following the administration of other positive inotropic agents ( including PDE III inhibitors ) and / or vasodilating agents .
No cardiovascular lesions were seen in rats following 5 or 13 weeks of administration of cilostazol at doses up to 1500 mg / kg / day .
At this dose , systemic exposures ( AUCs ) to unbound cilostazol were only about 1 . 5 and 5 times ( male and female rats , respectively ) the exposure seen in humans at the MRHD .
Cardiovascular lesionswere also not seen in rats following 52 weeks of administration of cilostazol at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day .
At this dose , systemic exposure ( AUCs ) tounbound cilostazol were about 0 . 5 and 5 times ( male and female rates , respectively ) the exposure in humans at the MRHD .
In female rats , cilostazol AUCs were similar at 150 and 1500 mg / kg / day .
Cardiovascular lesions were also not observed in monkeys after oral administration of cilostazol for 13 weeks at doses up to 1800 mg / kg / day .
While this dose of cilostazol produced pharmacologic effects in monkeys , plasma cilostazol levels were less than those seen in humans given the MRHD , and those seen in dogs given doses associated with cardiovascular lesions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dietary administration of cilostazol to male and female rats and mice for up to 104 weeks , at doses up to 500 mg / kg / day in rats and 1000 mg / kg / day in mice , revealed no evidence of carcinogenic potential .
The maximum doses administered in both rat and mouse studies were , on a systemic exposure basis , less than the human exposure at the MRHD of the drug .
Cilostazol tested negative in bacterial gene mutation , bacterial DNA repair , mammalian cell gene mutation , and mouse in vivo bone marrow chromosomal aberration assays .
It was , however , associated with a significant increase in chromosomal aberrations in the in vitro Chinese Hamster Ovary Cell assay .
Cilostazol did not affect fertility or mating performance of male and female rats at doses as high as 1000 mg / kg / day .
At this dose , systemic exposures ( AUCs ) to unbound cilostazol were less than 1 . 5 times in males , and about 5 times in females , the exposure in humans at the MRHD .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : In a rat developmental toxicity study , oral administration of 1000 mg cilostazol / kg / day was associated with decreased fetal weights , and increased incidences of cardiovascular , renal , and skeletal anomalies ( ventricular septal , aortic arch , and subclavian artery abnormalities , renal pelvic dilation , 14 th rib , and retarded ossification ) .
At this dose , systemic exposure to unbound cilostazol in nonpregnant rats was about 5 times the exposure in humans given the MRHD .
Increased incidences of ventricular septal defect and retarded ossification were also noted at 150 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the MRHD on a systemic exposure basis ) .
In a rabbit developmental toxicity study , an increased incidence of retardation of ossification of the sternum was seen at doses as low as 150 mg / kg / day .
In nonpregnant rabbits given 150 mg / kg / day , exposure to unbound cilostazol was considerably lower than that seen in humans given the MRHD , and exposure to 3 , 4 - dehydro - cilostazol was barely detectable .
When cilostazol was administered to rats during late pregnancy and lactation , an increased incidence of stillborn and decreased birth weights of offspring was seen at doses of 150 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the MRHD on a systemic exposure basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nursing Mothers Transfer of cilostazol into milk has been reported in experimental animals ( rats ) .
Because of the potential risk to nursing infants , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or to discontinue cilostazol Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of cilostazol in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects ( n = 2274 ) in clinical studies of cilostazol , 56 percent were 65 - years - old and over , while 16 percent were 75 - years - old and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Pharmacokinetic studies have not disclosed any age - related effects on the absorption , distribution , metabolism , and elimination of cilostazol and its metabolites .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse events were assessed in eight placebo - controlled clinical trials involving 2274 patients exposed to either 50 or 100 mg b . i . d . cilostazol tablets ( n = 1301 ) or placebo ( n = 973 ) , with a median treatment duration of 127 days for patients on cilostazol and 134 days for patients on placebo .
The only adverse event resulting in discontinuation of therapy in ≥ 3 % of patients treated with cilostazol 50 or 100 mg b . i . d . was headache , which occurred with an incidence of 1 . 3 % , 3 . 5 % , and 0 . 3 % in patients treated with cilostazol 50 mg b . i . d . , 100 mg b . i . d . or placebo , respectively .
Other frequent causes of discontinuation included palpitation and diarrhea , both 1 . 1 % for cilostazol ( all doses ) versus 0 . 1 % for placebo .
The most commonly reported adverse events , occurring in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with cilostazol 50 or 100 mg b . i . d . , are shown in the table below .
Other events seen with an incidence of ≥ 2 % , but occurring in the placebo group at least as frequently as in the 100 mg b . i . d . group were : asthenia , hypertension , vomiting , leg cramps , hyperesthesia , paresthesia , dyspnea , rash , hematuria , urinary tract infection , flu syndrome , angina pectoris , arthritis , and bronchitis .
Most Commonly Reported AEs ( Incidence ≥ 2 % ) in Patients on Cilostazol 50 mg b . i . d . or 100 mg b . i . d . and Occurring at a Rate in the 100 mg b . i . d . Group Higher Than in Patients on Placebo Adverse Events ( AEs ) by Body System Cilostazol 50 mg b . i . d . ( N = 303 ) % Cilostazol 100 mg b . i . d . ( N = 998 ) % Placebo ( N = 973 ) % BODY AS A WHOLE Abdominal pain 4 5 3 Back pain 6 7 6 Headache 27 34 14 Infection 14 10 8 CARDIOVASCULAR Palpitation 5 10 1 Tachycardia 4 4 1 DIGESTIVE Abnormal stools 12 15 4 Diarrhea 12 19 7 Dyspepsia 6 6 4 Flatulence 2 3 2 Nausea 6 7 6 METABOLIC & NUTRITIONAL Peripheral edema 9 7 4 MUSCULO - SKELETAL Myalgia 2 3 2 NERVOUS Dizziness 9 10 6 Vertigo 3 1 1 RESPIRATORY Cough increased 3 4 3 Pharyngitis 7 10 7 Rhinitis 12 7 5 Less frequent adverse events ( < 2 % ) that were experienced by patients exposed to cilostazol 50 mg b . i . d . or 100 mg b . i . d . in the eight controlled clinical trials and that occurred at a frequency in the 100 mg b . i . d . group greater than in the placebo group , regardless of suspected drug relationship , are listed below .
Body As a Whole : Chills , face edema , fever , generalized edema , malaise , neck rigidity , pelvic pain , retroperitoneal hemorrhage .
Cardiovascular : Atrial fibrillation , atrial flutter , cerebral infarct , cerebral ischemia , congestive heart failure , heart arrest , hemorrhage , hypotension , myocardial infarction , myocardial ischemia , nodal arrhythmia , postural hypotension , supraventricular tachycardia , syncope , varicose vein , vasodilation , ventricular extrasystoles , ventricular tachycardia .
Digestive : Anorexia , cholelithiasis , colitis , duodenal ulcer , duodenitis , esophageal hemorrhage , esophagitis , increased GGT , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gum hemorrhage , hematemesis , melena , peptic ulcer , periodontal abscess , rectal hemorrhage , stomach ulcer , tongue edema .
Endocrine : Diabetes mellitus .
Hemic and Lymphatic : Anemia , ecchymosis , iron deficiency anemia , polycythemia , purpura .
Metabolic and Nutritional :: Increased creatinine , gout , hyperlipemia , hyperuricemia .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , bone pain , bursitis .
Nervous : Anxiety , insomnia , neuralgia .
Respiratory : Asthma , epistaxis , hemoptysis , pneumonia , sinusitis .
Skin and Appendages : Dry skin , furunculosis , skin hypertrophy , urticaria .
Special Senses : Amblyopia , blindness , conjunctivitis , diplopia , ear pain , eye hemorrhage , retinal hemorrhage , tinnitus .
Urogenital : Albuminuria , cystitis , urinary frequency , vaginal hemorrhage , vaginitis Post Marketing Experience The following adverse events have been reported spontaneously from worldwide post - marketing experience since launch of cilostazol in the US .
• Blood and lymphatic system disorders : • agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , granulocytopenia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , bleeding tendency • Cardiac disorders : • Torsades de pointes , QTc prolongation ( Torsades de pointes and QTc prolongation occurred in patients with cardiac disorders , e . g . complete atrioventricular block , cardiac failure and bradyarrythmia , when treated with cilostazol .
Cilostazol was used “ off label ” due to its positive chronotropic action . )
• Gastrointestinal disorders : • gastrointestinal hemorrhage • General disorders and administration site conditions : • pain , chest pain , hot flushes • Hepatobiliary disorders : • hepatic dysfunction / abnormal liver function tests , jaundice • Injury , poisoning and procedural complications : • extradural hematoma and subdural hematoma • Investigations : • blood glucose increased , blood uric acid increased , platelet count decreased , white blood cell count decreased , increase in BUN ( blood urea increased ) , blood pressure increase • Nervous system disorders : • intracranial hemorrhage , cerebral hemorrhage , cerebrovascular accident • Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : • pulmonary hemorrhage , interstitial pneumonia • Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : • hemorrhage subcutaneous , pruritus , skin eruptions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , skin drug eruption ( dermatitis medicamentosa ) • Vascular disorders : • subacute thrombosis ( These cases of subacute thrombosis occurred in patients treated with aspirin and “ off label ” use of cilostazol for prevention of thrombotic complication after coronary stenting . )
OVERDOSAGE Information on acute overdosage with cilostazol in humans is limited .
The signs and symptoms of an acute overdose can be anticipated to be those of excessive pharmacologic effect : severe headache , diarrhea , hypotension , tachycardia , and possibly cardiac arrhythmias .
The patient should be carefully observed and given supportive treatment .
Since cilostazol is highly protein - bound , it is unlikely that it can be efficiently removed by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
The oral LD50 of cilostazol is > 5 . 0 g / kg in mice and rats and > 2 . 0 g / kg in dogs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of cilostazol is 100 mg b . i . d . taken at least half an hour before or two hours after breakfast and dinner .
A dose of 50 mg b . i . d . should be considered during coadministration of such inhibitors of CYP3A4 as ketoconazole , itraconazole , erythromycin and diltiazem , and during coadministration of such inhibitors of CYP2C19 as omeprazole .
Patients may respond as early as 2 to 4 weeks after the initiation of therapy , but treatment for up to 12 weeks may be needed before a beneficial effect is experienced .
Discontinuation of Therapy The available data suggest that the dosage of cilostazol can be reduced or discontinued without rebound ( i . e . , platelet hyperaggregability ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Cilostazol Tablets , USP 100 mg are white , round compressed tablets debossed " cor " over " 159 " on one side and other side is plain . They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5411 - 1 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 5411 - 0 STORAGE Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP / NF .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Rev . October 2009 MF # 334 - 04 Manufactured and Distributed by : Corepharma LLC Middlesex , NJ 08846 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PATIENT INFORMATION ABOUT CILOSTAZOL ( sil - OS - tah - zol ) TABLETS , USP Cilostazol Tablets 50 mg and 100 mg Please read this leaflet before you start taking cilostazol and each time you renew it in case anything has changed .
This leaflet does not replace careful discussions with your doctor .
You and your doctor should discuss cilostazol when you start taking it and at regular check - ups .
You should follow your doctor ’ s advice about when to have check - ups .
What is Cilostazol Tablets , USP for ?
Cilostazol may improve the symptoms of patients with a medical condition called intermittent claudication .
What is intermittent claudication ?
Intermittent claudication is pain in the legs that occurs with walking and disappears with rest .
It occurs because narrowing or blockage of the arteries decreases blood flow to the legs .
The decreased blood flow does not supply enough oxygen to the leg muscles during walking , resulting in these painful leg cramps .
What treatments are available for intermittent claudication ?
The three main treatments available for intermittent claudication are : • Exercise .
Your doctor may advise an exercise program .
• Medication .
Your doctor may prescribe a medication such as cilostazol .
( See Who should not take cilostazol ? )
• Surgery .
Your doctor may recommend a surgical procedure to bypass the blocked segment of the artery .
Another procedure is called a percutaneous transluminal angioplasty .
In this procedure , a catheter ( a flexible tube ) is inserted into the artery to reduce the blockage and improve blood flow .
How does Cilostazol Tablets , USP work ?
• The exact way that many drugs work is not well understood .
Although how cilostazol works is not completely clear , its main effects are to dilate ( widen ) the arteries supplying blood to the legs and to decrease the ability of platelets in the blood to stick together .
Platelets are particles that circulate in the blood and play a role in clotting • Cilostazol may reduce the leg pain that patients with intermittent claudication experience , allowing them to walk farther before their leg pain occurs .
• Improvement in symptoms may occur as soon as 2 weeks , but could take up to 12 weeks .
If you have not noticed any benefit from cilostazol after 12 weeks you and your doctor may wish to discuss other forms of treatment .
• Sometimes blood vessel disease of the legs causes pain at rest or breakdown of skin in the leg .
Cilostazol has not been shown to work in patients with these problems .
Who should not take Cilostazol Tablets , USP ?
• Patients who have congestive heart failure ( CHF ) must not take cilostazol .
The most common symptoms of CHF are shortness of breath and swelling of the legs .
However , other conditions may also cause these symptoms .
• Patients who have bleeding problems , such as a bleeding peptic ulcer , must not take cilostazol .
Cilostazol decreases the ability of blood particles , called platelets , to stick together and this can increase the risk of bleeding .
It is important that you discuss with your doctor whether you have CHF or bleeding problems .
• Over 1 , 300 patients took cilostazol in studies that lasted for 3 to 6 months .
The mortality rate in these patients was similar to placebo ( less than 1 % ) .
These studies were too small to be sure there is not some increased risk of dying with longer use or in patients sicker than those in the studies .
How should Cilostazol Tablets , USP be taken ?
• Follow your doctor " s advice about how to take cilostazol .
• You should take cilostazol twice a day , at least one half - hour before or two hours after breakfast and dinner .
Take cilostazol at about the same times each day .
• Do not share cilostazol with anyone else .
It was prescribed only for you .
• Keep cilostazol and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Can Cilostazol Tablets , USP be taken with other drugs ?
Certain drugs and foods can increase the amount of cilostazol in the blood .
Because of this , your doctor may adjust your dose of cilostazol or even stop it if you are taking or are going to take one of the following medications .
Drugs Interacting With Cilostazol Generic Name ( Brand Name ) Type of Drug erythromycin ( such as E . E . S . ® , Erythrocin ® ) Antibiotic ketoconazole ( Nizoral ® ) , itraconazole ( Sporanox ® ) Antifungal diltiazem ( Cardizem ® ) Antihypertensive omeprazole ( Prilosec ® ) Gastric acid reducer This list does not include every drug that may interact with cilostazol .
Therefore , you should tell your doctor about all medications that you are taking , including vitamins , herbal supplements and over - the - counter drugs you can buy without a prescription .
You should also check with your doctor before taking a new medication after you have begun cilostazol .
What are the possible side effects of CIlostazol Tablets , USP ?
Cilostazol may cause side effects including headache , diarrhea , abnormal stools , increased heart rate , and palpitations .
You should discuss possible side effects with your doctor before taking cilostazol and any time you think you are having a side effect .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
This provides only a summary of information about cilostazol .
If you have any questions about cilostazol , talk to your doctor .
Rev . October , 2009 MF # 334 - 04 Manufactured and Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Corepharma LLC Middlesex , NJ 08846 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Cilostazol Tablets , USP 100 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
