Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Ranitidine 150 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride 168 mg ) Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have : • frequent chest pain • unexplained weight loss • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • nausea or vomiting Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • stomach pain continues • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health care professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and older : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily - do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • do not use if printed foil under cap is torn or open • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sugar free • * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Glaxosmithkline Consumer Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Zantac ® 150 Inactive Ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , diethyl phthalate , FD & C yellow # 6 , hypromellose , iron oxide red , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose and titanium dioxide .
Principal display panel SHOPKO ® Maximum Strength HEARTBURN Ranitidine Tablets , USP 150 mg Acid Reducer One tablet relieves : heartburn , acid indigestion & sour stomach * Compare to Zantac 150 ® active ingredient Read the directions , consumer information leaflet and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
Packaged by : PL Developments 200 Hicks street Westbury , NY 11590 , USA Questions or comments ?
call toll free 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Product of INDIA Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
