1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HepaGam B [ Hepatitis B immune globulin intravenous ( Human ) ] is an intravenous immune globulin indicated for the following : • For Intravenous or Intramuscular Administration Only • Prevention of Hepatitis B recurrence following Liver Transplantation in HBsAg - positive liver transplant patients ( 1 . 1 ) .
• Postexposure Prophylaxis ( 1 . 2 ) in the following settings : • Acute Exposure to Blood Containing HBsAg • Perinatal Exposure of Infants Born to HBsAg - positive Mothers • Sexual Exposure to HBsAg - positive Persons • Household Exposure to Persons with Acute HBV Infection 1 . 1 Prevention of Hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplant in HBsAg - positive liver transplant patients 1 . 2 Post - exposure prophylaxis including • acute exposure to HBsAg - positive blood , plasma , or serum ( parenteral exposure , direct mucus membrane contact , oral ingestion , etc . ) , • perinatal exposure of infants born to HBsAg - positive mothers , • sexual exposure to HBsAg - positive persons , and • household exposure to persons with acute HBV infection .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prevention of Hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation ( 2 . 1 ) HepaGam B is administered intravenously at doses of 20 , 000 international units ( calculated from the measured potency stamped on the vial label ) according to the following regimen to attain serum anti - HBs greater than 500 international units per liter : Regularly monitor serum anti - HBs to allow for treatment adjustments .
Anhepatic Phase Week 1 Post - Operative Weeks 2 - 12 Post - Operative Month 4 onwards First dose Daily from Day 1 - 7 Every two weeks from Day 14 Monthly Postexposure Prophylaxis ( 2 . 2 ) HepaGam B must be administered intramuscularly only as directed below : Acute Exposure to Blood Containing HBsAg 0 . 06 milliliter per kilogram Administer as soon as possible after exposure and within 24 hours if possible .
Perinatal Exposure of Infants Born to HBsAg - positive Mothers 0 . 5 milliliter Administer after physiologic stabilization of the infant and preferably within 12 hours of birth .
Sexual Exposure to HBsAg - positive Persons 0 . 06 milliliter per kilogram Administer HepaGam B within 14 days of the last sexual contact or if sexual contact with the infected person will continue Household Exposure to Persons with Acute HBV Infection 0 . 5 milliliter Infants less than 12 months : Administer HepaGam B + Hepatitis B vaccine if primary caregiver has acute HBV infection .
2 . 1 Prevention of Hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation Administer the first dose of HepaGam B during the grafting of the transplanted liver ( the anhepatic phase ) with subsequent dosing as recommended in Table 1 .
Calculate the dosing from the measured potency of the particular lot of HepaGam B as stamped on the vial label .
Administer by intravenous infusion ( Table 2 ) .
Table 1 - HepaGam B Dosing Regimen for HBV - Related Liver Transplant Patients * Each dose should contain 20 , 000 international units calculated from the measured potency as stamped on the vial label [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
Anhepatic Phase Week 1 Post - Operative Weeks 2 - 12 Post - Operative Month 4 onwards First dose Daily from Day 1 - 7 Every two weeks from Day 14 Monthly Table 2 – HepaGam B Intravenous Infusion RateRoute of Administration Dosage Infusion Rate Intravenous 20 , 000 international units per dose 2 milliliters per minute .
Decrease to 1 milliliter per minute or slower if the patient develops discomfort or infusion - related adverse reactions .
HepaGam B dose adjustments may be required in patients who fail to reach anti - HBs levels of 500 International Units per liter within the first week post - liver transplantation1 .
Patients who have surgical bleeding or abdominal fluid drainage ( greater than 500 milliliters ) or patients who undergo plasmapheresis are particularly susceptible to extensive loss of circulated anti - HBs .
In these cases , the dosing regimen should be increased to a half - dose ( 10 , 000 International Units calculated from the measured potency as stamped on the vial label ) intravenously every 6 hours until the target anti - HBs is reached .
2 . 2 Postexposure Prophylaxis Administer HepaGam B intramuscularly as recommended in Table 3 .
Table 3 – HepaGam B Dosing Regimen for Postexposure Prophylaxis ( Intramuscular ) Indication Dosage Instructions Acute Exposure to Blood Containing HBsAg 0 . 06 milliliter per kilogram Administer HepaGam B as soon as possible after exposure .
The value after seven days following exposure is unclear2 , 3 .
For persons who refuse Hepatitis B vaccine or who are known non - responders to vaccine , give a second dose of HepaGam B one month after the first dose2 .
Perinatal exposure of Infants Born to HBsAg - positive mothers 0 . 5 milliliter Administer after physiologic stabilization of the infant and preferably within twelve hours of birth .
Administer concurrently with Hepatitis B vaccine .
Sexual Exposure to HBsAg - Positive Persons 0 . 06 milliliter per kilogram Administer HepaGam B and Hepatitis B Vaccine series within 14 days of sexual contact or if sexual contact with the infected person will continue .
Household Exposure to Person with Acute HBV Infection 0 . 5 milliliter For infants less than twelve months of age administered concurrently with Hepatitis B Vaccine .
Prophylaxis of other household contacts of persons with acute HBV infection is not indicated unless there is an identifiable blood exposure to the index patient , such as by sharing toothbrushes or razors .
Treat such exposures like sexual exposures .
HepaGam B may be administered at the same time ( but at a different site ) , or up to one month preceding Hepatitis B vaccination without impairing the active immune response to Hepatitis B vaccine2 , 3 .
2 . 3 Preparation • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use if turbid .
• Do not shake vials during preparation to avoid foaming .
• The HepaGam B vial is for single use only .
HepaGam B contains no preservatives .
• Promptly use any vial of HepaGam B that has been entered .
Do not reuse or save for future use .
• For intravenous administration , administer HepaGam B through a separate intravenous line using an infusion pump .
• Use normal saline as the diluent if dilution of HepaGam B is preferred prior to intravenous administration .
[ see Clinical Trials in Liver Transplant Patients ( 14 . 1 ) ] • Do not use dextrose ( 5 % ) in water ( D5W ) .
• Use a separate vial , sterile syringe , and needle for each individual patient , to prevent transmission of infectious agents from one person to another .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • HepaGam B is a sterile solution of purified gamma globulin ( 5 % or 50 milligrams per milliliter ) that contains greater than 312 International Units per milliliter of anti - HBs .
• The measured potency of each lot is stamped on the vial label .
• To ensure that the label claim of greater than 312 International Units per milliliter is maintained over the product shelf life , a higher potency of 550 International Units per milliliter is targeted at the time of manufacture .
• This higher target potency is a manufacturing requirement to account for variability in the potency assay and changes in potency over time .
• The potency assay has a relative standard deviation ( RSD ) of approximately 10 % .
• The actual potency test result may vary from approximately 400 to 700 International Units per milliliter ( 3 x RSD ) based on statistical assessment of manufactured lots with a target potency of 550 International Units per milliliter .
• Calculate the dosing for the prevention of hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation from the measured potency of the particular lot of HepaGam B as stamped on the vial label .
1 . 0 milliliter sterile solution ; single use vial ( greater than 312 international units per milliliter ) .
( 3 ) 5 . 0 milliliters sterile solution ; single use vial ( greater than 312 international units per milliliter ) .
( 3 ) The measured potency of each lot is stamped on the vial label .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Individuals known to have anaphylactic or severe systemic reactions to the parenteral administration of human globulin preparations should not receive HepaGam B . • Individuals who are deficient in IgA may have the potential to develop anti - IgA antibodies and have an anaphylactoid reaction .
• HepaGam B contains less than 40 micrograms per milliliter of IgA .
• For postexposure prophylaxis indications , HepaGam B must be administered intramuscularly only .
In patients who have severe thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorder that would contraindicate intramuscular injections , HepaGam B should be given only if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks .
• History of anaphylactic or severe systemic reactions to human globulins ( 4 ) • IgA deficient individuals may have the potential to develop IgA antibodies and have an anaphylactoid reaction .
( 4 ) • IM injections may be contraindicated in patients with coagulation disorders .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity ( 5 . 1 ) • Interference with Blood Glucose Testing ( 5 . 2 ) • Monitoring : Serum Anti - HBs Antibody Levels ( 5 . 3 ) • Infusion Reactions ( 5 . 4 ) • Transmissible Infectious Agents ( 5 . 5 ) • Coagulation Disorders ( 5 . 6 ) • Thrombotic Events ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions may occur with HepaGam B . HepaGam B should be administered in a setting with appropriate equipment , medication and personnel trained in the management of hypersensitivity , anaphylaxis and shock .
In case of hypersensitivity , discontinue HepaGam B infusion immediately and begin appropriate emergency treatment .
Medications such as epinephrine and antihistamines should be available for immediate treatment of acute hypersensitivity reactions .
HepaGam B contains trace amounts of IgA ( less than 40 micrograms per milliliter ) .
Patients with known antibodies to IgA may have a greater risk of severe hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions .
HepaGam B is contraindicated in IgA deficient patients with antibodies against IgA and history of hypersensitivity reaction .
( see CONTRAINDICATIONS [ 4 ] ) 5 . 2 Interference with Blood Glucose Testing The maltose contained in HepaGam B can interfere with some types of blood glucose monitoring systems , i . e . , those based on the glucose dehydrogenase pyrroloquine quinone ( GDH - PQQ ) method .
This can result in falsely elevated glucose readings and , consequently , in the inappropriate administration of insulin , resulting in life - threatening hypoglycemia .
Cases of true hypoglycemia may go untreated if the hypoglycemic state is masked by falsely elevated results .
5 . 3 Monitoring : Serum Anti - HBs Antibody Levels Liver transplant patients should be monitored regularly for serum anti - HBs antibody levels using a quantitative assay to ensure that adequate protective levels are maintained .
5 . 4 Infusion Reactions Certain adverse drug reactions may be related to the rate of infusion .
The recommended infusion rate given under Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) must be closely followed .
Patients must be closely monitored and carefully observed for any symptoms throughout the infusion period and immediately following an infusion .
5 . 5 Transmissible Infectious Agents Because HepaGam B is made from human plasma , it may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents , e . g . viruses , and , theoretically , the Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) agent .
No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have been associated with the use of HepaGam B . All infections suspected by a physician possibly to have been transmitted by this product should be reported by the physician or other healthcare provider to Saol Therapeutics at 1 - 833 - 644 - 4216 .
5 . 6 Coagulation Disorders For postexposure prophylaxis indications , HepaGam B must be administered intramuscularly only .
In patients who have severe thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorder that would contraindicate intramuscular injections , HepaGam B should be given only if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks .
5 . 7 Thrombotic Events Thrombotic events may occur during or following treatment with IGIV products4 , 5 .
Patients at risk include those with a history of atherosclerosis , multiple cardiovascular risk factors , advanced age , impaired cardiac output , coagulation disorders , prolonged periods of immobilization , and / or known / suspected hyperviscosity .
Consider baseline assessment of blood viscosity in patients at risk for hyperviscosity including those with cryoglobulins , fasting chylomicronemia / markedly high triacylglycerols ( triglycerides ) , or monoclonal gammopathies .
For patients who are at risk of developing thrombotic events , administer HepaGam B at the minimum rate of infusion practicable .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The only adverse reactions observed in clinical trial subjects were hypotension and nausea ( 2 % of clinical trial subjects ) .
The only adverse reactions observed in clinical trial subjects were hypotension and nausea ( 2 % of clinical trial subjects ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Saol Therapeutics at 1 - 833 - 644 - 4216 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Hepatitis B - Related Liver Transplantation In a clinical trial with 27 liver transplant patients , one adverse drug reaction was reported following the 578 ( less than 1 % ) HepaGam B infusions .
This study utilized the recommended dosing regimen outlined in Table 1 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The attributed adverse drug reaction of hypotension was reported in one patient .
The reaction was associated with a single HepaGam B infusion during the first day post - transplant .
The reaction resolved on the same day and did not recur with subsequent HepaGam B infusions .
Healthy Volunteer Studies Seventy healthy male and female volunteers received a single dose of HepaGam B intramuscularly in clinical trials6 .
Only one adverse drug reaction , an episode of nausea , was reported .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of HepaGam B . Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Postexposure Prophylaxis : Dizziness has been reported in the postmarketing surveillance of HepaGam B for the postexposure prophylaxis indication .
Hepatitis B - Related Liver Transplantation : The system organ classification of reported adverse reactions is provided below : Cardiac disorders : Sinus tachycardia Gastrointestinal disorders : Abdominal pain upper Nausea General disorders and administration site conditions : Chills Feeling cold Influenza like illness Pyrexia Immune system disorders : Anaphylactoid reaction Hypersensitivity Investigations : Lipase increased Transaminases increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Back pain Nervous system disorders : Dizziness Headache Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Dyspnoea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Cold sweat Healthcare professionals should report adverse reactions following the administration of HepaGam B to Saol Therapeutics at 1 - 833 - 644 - 4216 or FDA ’ s MedWatch reporting system at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines may be impaired by immune globulin administration ; revaccination may be necessary .
( 7 . 1 ) • Antibodies in HepaGam B may interfere with some serological tests .
( 7 . 2 ) • Maltose in HepaGam B may interfere with non - glucose specific blood glucose testing systems .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Live Attenuated Virus Vaccines Immune globulin administration may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as measles , rubella , mumps and varicella2 , 3 , 7 .
Vaccination with live virus vaccines should be deferred until approximately three months after administration of HepaGam B , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous ( Human ) .
Persons who received HepaGam B less than 14 days after live virus vaccination should be revaccinated 3 months after the administration of the immune globulin , unless serologic test results indicate that antibodies were produced2 , 3 .
There are no available data on drug interactions of HepaGam B with other medications .
7 . 2 Drug - Laboratory Interactions : Serological Testing Antibodies present in HepaGam B may interfere with some serological tests .
After administration of immune globulins like HepaGam B , a transitory increase of passively transferred antibodies in the patient ’ s blood may result in misleading positive results in serological testing ( e . g . Coombs ' test ) .
7 . 3 Drug - Laboratory Interactions : Blood Glucose Testing HepaGam B contains maltose which can interfere with certain types of blood glucose monitoring systems .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) . ]
Only testing systems that are glucose - specific should be used in patients receiving HepaGam B .
This interference can result in falsely elevated glucose readings that can lead to untreated hypoglycemia or to inappropriate insulin administration , resulting in life - threatening hypoglycemia .
The product information of the blood glucose testing system , including that of the test strips , should be carefully reviewed to determine if the system is appropriate for use with maltose - containing parenteral products .
If any uncertainty exists , contact the manufacturer of the testing system to determine if the system is appropriate for use with maltose - containing parenteral products .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : No human or animal data .
Use only if clearly needed .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Caution should be exercised ( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with HepaGam B .
It is also not known whether HepaGam B can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
HepaGam B should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
8 . 2 Lactation It is not known whether HepaGam B is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when HepaGam B is administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
However , for postexposure prophylaxis , the safety and effectiveness of similar hepatitis B immune globulins have been demonstrated in infants and children8 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of HepaGam B did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Consequences of an overdose are not known .
For intramuscular administration of HepaGam B , the only manifestations of overdose would be pain and tenderness at the injection site .
11 DESCRIPTION HepaGam B , Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous ( Human ) , is a solvent / detergent - treated sterile solution of purified gamma globulin containing anti - HBs .
It is prepared from plasma donated by healthy , screened donors with high titers of anti - HBs that is purified by an anion - exchange column chromatography manufacturing method9 , 10 .
HepaGam B is formulated as a 5 % ( 50 milligrams per milliliter ) protein solution with 10 % maltose and 0 . 03 % polysorbate 80 at pH 5 . 6 .
It is available in 1 milliliter and 5 milliliters single dose vials .
The product appears as a clear to opalescent liquid .
HepaGam B does not contain mercury .
It contains no preservatives .
This product is intended for single use .
HepaGam B may be administered intravenously or intramuscularly dependent upon indication [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . ) ]
.
The source plasma used in the manufacture of this product was tested by FDA licensed Nucleic Acid testing ( NAT ) for HIV - 1 , HBV and HCV and found to be negative .
Plasma also has been tested by in - process NAT for hepatitis A virus ( HAV ) and parvovirus B19 ( B19 ) via minipool testing and the limit for B19 in the manufacturing pool is set not to exceed 104 international units of B19 DNA per milliliter .
The manufacturing process contains two steps implemented specifically for virus clearance .
The solvent and detergent step ( using tri - n - butyl phosphate and Triton ® X - 100 ) is effective in the inactivation of enveloped viruses , such as hepatitis B , hepatitis C and HIV11 .
Virus filtration , using a Planova ® 20 N virus filter , is effective for the removal of viruses based on their size , including some non - enveloped viruses12 .
These two viral clearance steps are designed to increase product safety by reducing the risk of transmission of enveloped and non - enveloped viruses .
In addition to these two specific steps , the process step of anion - exchange chromatography was identified as contributing to the overall viral clearance capacity for small non - enveloped viruses .
The inactivation and reduction of known enveloped and non – enveloped model viruses were validated in laboratory studies as summarized in Table 4 .
The viruses employed for spiking studies were selected to represent those viruses that are potential contaminants in the product , and to represent a wide range of physiochemical properties in order to challenge the manufacturing process ’ s ability for viral clearance in general .
Table 4 - Virus Reduction Values Obtained Through Validation Studies8Abbreviations : HIV - 1 : human immunodeficiency virus - 1 ; relevant virus for human immunodeficiency virus - 1 and model for HIV - 2 BVDV : bovine viral diarrhea virus ; model virus for hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) and West Nile virus ( WNV ) PRV : pseudorabies virus ; model for large enveloped DNA viruses , including herpes HAV : human hepatitis A virus ; relevant virus for HAV and model for small non - enveloped viruses in general EMC : encephalomyocarditis virus ; model for HAV and for small non - enveloped viruses in general MMV : murine minute virus ; model for human parvovirus B19 and for small non - enveloped viruses in general PPV : porcine parvovirus ; model for human parvovirus B19 and for small non - enveloped viruses in general n . e . : not evaluated ≥ : greater than or equal to a The PRV was retained by the 0 . 1 µm pre - filter during the virus validation .
Since manufacturing employs a 0 . 1 µm pre - filter before the 20 N filter , the claim of greater than equal to 5 . 6 reduction is considered applicable .
Enveloped Non - Enveloped Genome RNA DNA RNA DNA Virus HIV - 1 BVDV PRV HAV EMC MMV PPV Family retro flavi herpes picorna parvo Size ( nm ) 80 - 100 50 - 70 120 - 200 25 - 30 30 20 - 25 18 - 24 Anion Exchange Chromatography ( partitioning ) Not evaluated 2 . 3 n . e . 3 . 4 n . e . 20 N Filtration ( size exclusion ) ≥ 4 . 7 ≥ 3 . 5 ≥ 5 . 6 a n . e . 4 . 8 n . e . 4 . 1 Solvent / Detergent ( inactivation ) ≥ 4 . 7 ≥ 7 . 3 ≥ 5 . 5 Not evaluated Total Reduction ( log10 ) ≥ 9 . 4 ≥ 10 . 8 ≥ 11 . 1 2 . 3 4 . 8 3 . 4 4 . 1 The product potency is expressed in international units by comparison to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) standard Hepatitis B Immune Globulin .
Each vial contains greater than 312 international units per milliliter .
The measured potency of each lot is stamped on the vial label [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action HepaGam B provides passive immunization for individuals exposed to the hepatitis B virus , by binding to the surface antigen and reducing the rate of hepatitis B infection13 - 16 .
12 . 2 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic profile of HepaGam B has been evaluated in two 84 - day clinical trials in which 70 healthy subjects received an intramuscular injection of 0 . 06 milliliter per kilogram of HepaGam B .
The mean peak concentrations ( Cmax ) in both studies were comparable and occurred within 4 - 5 days of administration .
Both studies demonstrated mean elimination half - lives ( t ½ ) following IM administration of 22 to 25 days .
The mean clearance rate was 0 . 21 to 0 . 24 liter per day and the volume of distribution was approximately 7 . 5 liter .
Thus , HepaGam B demonstrates pharmacokinetic parameters similar to those reported by Scheiermann and Kuwert17 .
The maximum concentration of anti - HBs achieved by HepaGam B was consistent with that of two other licensed comparator Hepatitis B Immune Globulin ( Human ) products 6 .
Comparability of pharmacokinetics between HepaGam B and a commercially available hepatitis B immune globulin product administered IM indicates that comparable efficacy of HepaGam B should be inferred .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Trials in Liver Transplant Patients A clinical trial examined the effectiveness of HepaGam B in the prevention of hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation .
The study was a multi - center , open - labeled , superiority study involving HBsAg - positive / HBeAg - negative liver transplant patients .
The study included two arms , an active treatment group of patients enrolled to receive the described dosing regimen of HepaGam B starting during transplant and continuing over the course of a year , and a retrospective untreated control group of historical patients with data gathered by chart review .
There were 27 liver transplant patients who received HepaGam B and 14 retrospective untreated control patients .
The patients in both groups were HBsAg - positive / HBeAg - negative liver transplant patients who met similar entry criteria , had similar medical history and had similar status at transplant based on MELD and / or ChildPugh - Turcotte scores .
In the active treatment group , HepaGam B intravenous doses of 35 milliliters were initiated during transplant according to the regimen identified in Table 1 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
As a result of the targeted potency of 550 international units per milliliter at the time of manufacture [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 . ) ]
, the 35 milliliter doses of HepaGam B used in this study actually contained between 17 , 000 and 23 , 000 international units anti - HBs .
These 35 milliliter doses consistently yielded anti - HBs trough levels greater than 500 international units per liter ( 99 % of all anti - HBs levels were greater than 500 international units per liter ; see Figure 1 ) .
Patients received HepaGam B doses diluted with 50 mL of saline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Frequency Histogram of Trough anti - HBs Levels more than 30 days after Transplant Values below the target trough were only observed in the 2 patients with HBV recurrence who had anti - HBs levels less than 150 international units per liter at the time of seroconversion .
For the efficacy endpoint of the proportion of patients with HBV recurrence ( HBsAg positive and / or HBeAg positive after 4 weeks post - OLT ) , a significant treatment effect was observed .
As summarized in Table 5 , HBV recurrence was seen in 2 / 24 or 8 . 3 % of HepaGam B patients compared to 12 / 14 or 86 % of retrospective untreated control patients ( see Table 5 ) .
Two of the HepaGam B patients who died within 28 days post - transplant were excluded from all efficacy analyses , but included for safety analyses .
The deaths were not HBV or study drug related .
Table 5 - Results of Study HB - 005 for the Prevention of Hepatitis B Recurrence Following Liver Transplantation HepaGam B Retrospective Untreated Control P - value ( Fisher ' s Exact Test ) HBV Recurrence Proportion , % ( 95 % confidence interval ) 8 . 3 ( 0 . 1 - 27 . 0 ) 85 . 7 ( 57 . 2 - 98 . 2 ) less than 0 . 001 The conclusion that HepaGam B monotherapy post - OLT is effective at preventing HBV recurrence post - OLT is further supported by the secondary endpoints of time to recurrence , survival , anti - HBs levels , biochemical markers of liver inflammation , and liver biopsy .
Time to recurrence for the HepaGam B treatment group was 358 days for two HBV recurrent patients .
In comparison , the retrospective untreated control patients had a median time to recurrence of 88 days with a 95 % confidence interval of 47 to 125 days .
Survival calculations showed that 96 % ( 23 / 24 ) of patients in the active treatment group survived for at least 1 year post - OLT compared to 43 % ( 6 / 14 ) retrospective control patients .
The endpoints for HBV recurrence were supported by an observed drop in anti - HBs levels , elevated liver function tests , and abnormal liver biopsy result at the time of recurrence .
HepaGam B is recommended in patients who have no or low levels of viral replication at the time of liver transplantation .
The clinical trial evaluating HepaGam B in liver transplant patients selected patients with no or low replication status only .
HepaGam B therapy has not been evaluated in combination with antiviral therapy post - transplantation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • McGory RW , Ishitani MB , Oliveira WM , Stevenson WC , McCullough CS , Dickson RC et al .
Improved outcome of orthotopic liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B cirrhosis with aggressive passive immunization .
Transplantation 1996 ; 61 ( 9 ) : 1358 - 1364 .
• CDC .
A comprehensive immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States .
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) .
Part 1 : Immunization of infants , children , and adolescents .
MMWR 2005 ; 54 ( RR - 16 ) : 1 - 32 .
• CDC .
A comprehensive immunization strategy to eliminate transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in the United States .
Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) .
Part 2 : Immunization of adults .
MMWR 2006 ; 55 ( RR - 16 ) : 1 - 33 .
• Dalakas MC .
High - dose intravenous immunoglobulin and serum viscosity : risk of precipitating thromboembolic events .
Neurology 1994 ; 44 : 223 - 226 .
• Woodruff RK , et al . : Fatal thrombotic events during treatment of autoimmune thrombocytopenia with intravenous immunoglobulin in elderly patients .
Lancet 1986 ; 2 : 217 - 218 .
• Unpublished data on file .
• Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products ( CPMP ) .
Core SPC for human plasma derived hepatitis - B immunoglobulin for intravenous use ( CPMP / BPWG / 4027 / 02 ) .
London , UK : The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products .
2003 .
• CDC : Recommendations for protection against viral hepatitis .
Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee ( ACIP ) .
MMWR 1985 ; 34 ( 22 ) : 313 - 335 .
• Bowman JM , et al .
WinRho : Rh immune globulin prepared by ion exchange for intravenous use .
Canadian Med Assoc J 1980 ; 123 : 1121 - 5 .
• Friesen AD , et al .
Column ion - exchange preparation and characterization of an Rh immune globulin ( WinRho ) for intravenous use .
Journal Appl Biochem 1981 ; 3 : 164 - 75 .
• Horowitz B . Investigations into the application of tri ( n - butyl ) phosphate / detergent mixtures to blood derivatives .
Morgenthaler J ( ed ) : Virus Inactivation in Plasma Products , Curr Stud Hematol Blood Transfus 1989 ; 56 : 83 - 96 .
• Burnouf T . Value of virus filtration as method for improving the safety of plasma products .
Vox Sang 1996 ; 70 : 235 - 6 .
• Grady GF , Lee VA .
Hepatitis B immune globulin - prevention of hepatitis from accidental exposure among medical personnel .
N Engl J Med 1975 ; 293 : 1067 - 70 .
• Seeff LB , et al .
Type B hepatitis after needle - stick exposure : Prevention with hepatitis B immune globulin .
Ann Int Med 1978 ; 88 : 285 - 93 .
• Krugman S , Giles JP .
Viral hepatitis , type B ( MS - 2 - strain ) .
Further observations on natural history and prevention .
N Engl J Med 1973 ; 288 : 755 - 60 .
• Hoofnagle JH , et al .
Passive - active immunity from hepatitis B immune globulin .
Ann Int Med 1979 ; 91 : 813 - 8 .
• Scheiermann N , Kuwert EK .
Uptake and elimination of hepatitis B immunoglobulins after intramuscular application in man .
Dev Biol Standard 1983 ; 54 : 347 - 55 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC 70257 - 052 - 51 ; a carton containing a 1 . 0 milliliter single dose vial ( greater than 312 international units per milliliter ; measured potency of each lot is stamped on the vial label ) and a package insert .
NDC 70257 - 051 - 51 ; a carton containing a 5 . 0 milliliter single dose vial ( greater than 312 international units per milliliter ; measure potency of each lot is stamped on the vial label ) and a package insert .
Store at 36 to 46 ° F ( 2 to 8 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not use after expiration date .
Use within 6 hours after the vial has been entered .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients of the following : • HepaGam B is prepared from human plasma , and therefore , may contain infectious agents such as viruses that can cause disease .
• The risk that such products will transmit an infectious agent has been reduced by screening plasma donors for prior exposure to certain viruses , by testing for the presence of certain current virus infections , and by inactivating and / or removing certain viruses during manufacturing .
• Despite these measures , such products can still potentially transmit disease .
• There is also the possibility that unknown infectious agents may be present in such products .
• Tell patients that persons known to have severe , potentially life - threatening reactions to human globulin products should not receive HepaGam B or any other immune globulin products unless the risk has been justified .
• Tell patients that persons who are deficient in IgA may have the potential for developing anti - IgA antibodies and have severe potentially life threatening allergic reactions .
• In case of allergic or anaphylactic reaction , the infusion should be stopped immediately .
• In case of shock , the current medical standards for treatment of shock should be observed .
• Advise Liver Transplant patients about the potential interference with non - glucose specific monitoring systems .
• The maltose contained in HepaGam B can interfere with some types of blood glucose monitoring systems .
• Only testing systems that are glucose - specific should be used in patients receiving HepaGam B . • This inference can result in falsely elevated glucose readings that can lead to untreated hypoglycemia or to inappropriate insulin administration , resulting in life - threatening hypoglycemia .
HepaGam B ® [ Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous ( Human ) ] Sterile Solution for Injection and any and all Saol brand , product , service and feature names , logos , slogans are trademarks or registered trademarks of Saol .
All rights reserved .
PLANOVA ® is a registered trademark of Asahi Kasei Medical Co . , Ltd , TRITON ® is a registered trademark of Union Carbide Corporation .
Distributed by : Saol Therapeutics Inc .
Roswell , GA 30076 U . S . License No . 2098 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 70257 - 052 - 11 - 1 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 70257 - 052 - 51 - 1 mL Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 70257 - 051 - 05 - 5 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PPRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 70257 - 051 - 51 - 5 mL Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
