Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
When using this product • keep away from eyes , lips and mouth • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with hair or dyed fabric , including carpet and clothing which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Mild irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
If irritation becomes severe , discontinue use ; if irritation still continues , consult a doctor .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information Keep tightly closed .
Store at room temperature .
Inactive ingredients carbomer , disodium EDTA , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , laureth - 4 , sodium hydroxide , water Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 567 - 8600 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton meijer ® Compare to Clean & Clear ® Active Ingredient * MAXIMUM STRENGTH acne treatment gel Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) Works to Get Deep into Pores [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
