DESCRIPTION Nystatin is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from .
Its structural formula : Streptomyces noursei [ MULTIMEDIA ] C H NO M . W . 926 . 13 477517 Nystatin tablets contain the inactive ingredients : Corn Starch , Povidone , Compressible Sugar , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Talc , Magnesium Stearate , Purified Water , and Coloring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Gastrointestinal absorption of nystatin is insignificant .
Most orally administered nystatin is passed unchanged in the stool .
In patients with renal insufficiency receiving oral therapy with conventional dosage forms , significant plasma concentrations of nystatin may occasionally occur .
Microbiology Nystatin is both fungistatic and fungicidal against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast like fungi .
demonstrates no significant resistance to nystatin on repeated subculture in increasing levels of nystatin ; other species become quite resistant .
Generally , resistance does not develop .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
in vitroCandida albicansin vitroCandidain vivoCandida INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Tablets are intended for the treatment of non - esophageal mucus membrane gastrointestinal candidiasis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components .
PRECAUTIONS General This medication is not to be used for the treatment of systemic mycoses .
Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nystatin .
It is also not known whether nystatin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy .
Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported ( see ) .
PRECAUTIONS , General Gastrointestinal Diarrhea ( including one case of bloody diarrhea ) , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset / disturbances .
Dermatologic Rash , including urticaria has been reported rarely .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely .
Other Tachycardia , bronchospasm , facial swelling , and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
There have been no reports of serious toxic effects of superinfections ( see ) .
CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual therapeutic dosage is one to two tablets ( 500 , 000 to 1 , 000 , 000 units nystatin ) three times daily .
Treatment should generally be continued for at least 48 hours after clinical cure to prevent relapse .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 68151 - 1487 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 TABLET , FILM COATEDS Nystatin 500 , 000 units [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Tablets USP 500 , 000 units ( Oral ) 100 Label Text 0093 - - 01 NDC0983 NYSTATIN Tablets USP 500 , 000 units ( oral ) Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
