Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Oclisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 8 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply every 2 hours • Use water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , arachidyl alcohol , beheynl alcohol , arachidyl glucoside , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , steareth - 2 , glycerin , steareth - 21 , dimethicone , phenyl trimethicone , polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , ethylparaben , butylparaben , propylparaben , isobutylparaben , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , polymethyl methacrylate , lecithin , soy isoflavones , polysorbate 80 , alcohol , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , fragrance , benzalkonium chloride , BHT , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label Shopko * * Compare to Aveeno ® PositivelyTM Radiant Daily Moisturizer SPF 15 Ingredients Illuminating Daily Moisturizer With SPF 15 Clinically Proven to Even Out Skin Tone & Texture With Soy Complex & Light Diffusers 4 FL OZ ( 120 mL ) Soy , nature ' s secret for naturally radiant skin The multiple health and skin benefits of soy have long been know , including moisturization , texture smoothing and evening out of skin tone .
This oil - free , hypoallergenic and non - comedogenic product is gentle enough for everyday use .
Dermatologists recommend the everyday use of an SPF 15 sunscreen as essential to healthy skin care .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : After cleansing , smooth over face and neck every day for healthier , younger - looking skin .
This unique moisturizer has an exclusive soy complex and light diffusers that work together to naturally even out skin tone and texture .
Immediately reflecting light to visibly smooth skin imperfections , bringing out skin ' s natural radiance .
This light and quickly absorbed moisturizer is gentle enough for sensitive skin to help maintain healthy - looking skin .
Illuminating Daily Moisturizer is clinically proven to : • Leave smoother skin • Improve skin ' s tone and texture • Visibly even out discolorations • Improve skin ' s radiance * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson , owner of the registered trademark Aveeno ® Positively RadiantTM SHOPKO * Satisfaction Guaranteed By Refund or Exchange Distributed by ShopKo Stores Operating Co . , LLC Green Bay , WI 54307 © 2013 ShopKo Stores Operating Co . , LLC Made in Israel .
www . shopko . com 52326 8 C C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
