ACTIVE INGREDIENT Witch Hazel 50 % v / v PURPOSE Hemorrhoidal Astringent USE For temporary relief of local discomfort , burning , and irritation associated with hemorrhoids WARNINGS For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Consult a doctor • if condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • in case of bleeding • before exceeding the recommended dosage Do not put this product into rectum using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
• Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before each application of this product .
Gently apply to the affected area by patting and then discard .
Apply to the affected area up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement .
• Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature : 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) OTHER USES For vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting with pad and discard .
Repeat as needed .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS water , glycerin , alcohol 7 % v / v , sodium citrate , propylene glycol , citric acid , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben LABEL INFORMATION NDC 49035 - 751 - 21 EQUATE Compare to Tucks ® active ingredient * Hygienic Cleansing Pads pre - moistened hemorrhoidal / vaginal pads with witch hazel MEDICATED PADS 100 PADS Hygienic cleansing action for temporary relief of external rectal and vaginal itching and burning For your protection , jar is sealed .
Remove lid .
If seal is broken or missing , do not use .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark TUCKS ® .
Manufactured by : Triad Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 700 West North Shore Drive , Hartland , WI 53029 Serious side effects associated with use of this product can be reported to the phone number provided below .
1 - 800 - 288 - 1288 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
