Revised : March 2021 Rx only Prescribing Information WARNING Only physicians experienced in management of systemic immunosuppressive therapy for the indicated disease should prescribe cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
At doses used in solid organ transplantation , only physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and management of organ transplant recipients should prescribe cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Patients receiving the drug should be managed in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate laboratory and supportive medical resources .
The physician responsible for maintenance therapy should have complete information requisite for the follow - up of the patient .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , a systemic immunosuppressant , may increase the susceptibility to infection and the development of neoplasia .
In kidney , liver , and heart transplant patients , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] may be administered with other immunosuppressive agents .
Increased susceptibility to infection and the possible development of lymphoma and other neoplasms may result from the increase in the degree of immunosuppression in transplant patients .
Cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] have increased bioavailability in comparison to Sandimmune ® [ 1 ] soft gelatin capsules ( cyclosporine capsules ) and Sandimmune ® null oral solution ( cyclosporine oral solution ) .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and Sandimmune ® null are not bioequivalent and cannot be used interchangeably without physician supervision .
For a given trough concentration , cyclosporine exposure will be greater with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] than with Sandimmune ® null .
If a patient who is receiving exceptionally high doses of Sandimmune ® null is converted to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , particular caution should be exercised .
Cyclosporine blood concentrations should be monitored in transplant and rheumatoid arthritis patients taking cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] to avoid toxicity due to high concentrations .
Dose adjustments should be made in transplant patients to minimize possible organ rejection due to low concentrations .
Comparison of blood concentrations in the published literature with blood concentrations obtained using current assays must be done with detailed knowledge of the assay methods employed .
[ 1 ] Sandimmune ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
For Psoriasis Patients ( See also Boxed WARNINGS above ) Psoriasis patients previously treated with PUVA and to a lesser extent , methotrexate or other immunosuppressive agents , UVB , coal tar , or radiation therapy , are at an increased risk of developing skin malignancies when taking cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Cyclosporine , the active ingredient in cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] , in recommended dosages , can cause systemic hypertension and nephrotoxicity .
The risk increases with increasing dose and duration of cyclosporine therapy .
Renal dysfunction , including structural kidney damage , is a potential consequence of cyclosporine , and therefore , renal function must be monitored during therapy .
DESCRIPTION Cyclosporine capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] are oral formulations of cyclosporine that immediately forms a microemulsion in an aqueous environment .
Cyclosporine , the active principle in cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] , is a cyclic polypeptide immunosuppressant agent consisting of 11 amino acids .
It is produced as a metabolite by the fungus species Beauveria nivea .
Chemically , cyclosporine is designated as [ R - [ R * , R * - ( E ) ] ] - cyclic - ( L - alanyl - D - alanyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - valyl - 3 - hydroxy - N , 4 - dimethyl - L - 2 - amino - 6 - octenoyl - L - α - amino - butyryl - N - methylglycyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - valyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl ) .
Each soft gelatin cyclosporine capsule , USP   [ Modified ] for oral administration contains 25 mg or 100 mg of cyclosporine , USP .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : Caprylic / capric triglyceride , dl - alpha - tocopherol , gelatin , glycerin , glyceryl caprylate , PEG - 8 caprylic / capric glycerides , PEG - 35 castor oil , red iron oxide , shellac , sorbitol special 76 % and titanium dioxide USP .
Cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] contains 100 mg / mL of cyclosporine , USP .
Inactive ingredients : Caprylic / capric triglyceride , dl - alpha - tocopherol , glyceryl caprylate , PEG - 8 caprylic / capric glycerides , PEG - 35 castor oil .
The chemical structure of cyclosporine , USP ( also known as cyclosporin A ) is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cyclosporine is a potent immunosuppressive agent that in animals prolongs survival of allogeneic transplants involving skin , kidney , liver , heart , pancreas , bone marrow , small intestine , and lung .
Cyclosporine has been demonstrated to suppress some humoral immunity and to a greater extent , cell - mediated immune reactions such as allograft rejection , delayed hypersensitivity , experimental allergic encephalomyelitis , Freund ' s adjuvant arthritis , and graft vs . host disease in many animal species for a variety of organs .
The effectiveness of cyclosporine results from specific and reversible inhibition of immunocompetent lymphocytes in the G0 - and G1 - phase of the cell cycle .
T - lymphocytes are preferentially inhibited .
The T - helper cell is the main target , although the T - suppressor cell may also be suppressed .
Cyclosporine also inhibits lymphokine production and release including interleukin - 2 .
No effects on phagocytic function ( changes in enzyme secretions , chemotactic migration of granulocytes , macrophage migration , carbon clearance in vivo ) have been detected in animals .
Cyclosporine does not cause bone marrow suppression in animal models or man .
Pharmacokinetics The immunosuppressive activity of cyclosporine is primarily due to parent drug .
Following oral administration , absorption of cyclosporine is incomplete .
The extent of absorption of cyclosporine is dependent on the individual patient , the patient population , and the formulation .
Elimination of cyclosporine is primarily biliary with only 6 % of the dose ( parent drug and metabolites ) excreted in urine .
The disposition of cyclosporine from blood is generally biphasic , with a terminal half - life of approximately 8 . 4 hours ( range 5 to 18 hours ) .
Following intravenous administration , the blood clearance of cyclosporine ( assay : HPLC ) is approximately 5 to 7 mL / min / kg in adult recipients of renal or liver allografts .
Blood cyclosporine clearance appears to be slightly slower in cardiac transplant patients .
Cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] are bioequivalent .
Cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] diluted with orange juice or apple juice is bioequivalent to cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] diluted with water .
The effect of milk on the bioavailability of cyclosporine when administered as cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] has not been evaluated .
The relationship between administered dose and exposure ( area under the concentration versus time curve , AUC ) is linear within the therapeutic dose range .
The intersubject variability ( total , % CV ) of cyclosporine exposure ( AUC ) when cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] or Sandimmune ® null is administered ranges from approximately 20 % to 50 % in renal transplant patients .
This intersubject variability contributes to the need for individualization of the dosing regimen for optimal therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Intrasubject variability of AUC in renal transplant recipients ( % CV ) was 9 % to 21 % for cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and 19 % to 26 % for Sandimmune ® null .
In the same studies , intrasubject variability of trough concentrations ( % CV ) was 17 % to 30 % for cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and 16 % to 38 % for Sandimmune ® null .
Absorption Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] has increased bioavailability compared to Sandimmune ® null ( cyclosporine ) .
The absolute bioavailability of cyclosporine administered as Sandimmune ® null is dependent on the patient population , estimated to be less than 10 % in liver transplant patients and as great as 89 % in some renal transplant patients .
The absolute bioavailability of cyclosporine administered as cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] has not been determined in adults .
In studies of renal transplant , rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis patients , the mean cyclosporine AUC was approximately 20 % to 50 % greater and the peak blood cyclosporine concentration ( Cmax ) was approximately 40 % to 106 % greater following administration of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] compared to following administration of Sandimmune ® null .
The dose normalized AUC in de novo liver transplant patients administered cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] 28 days after transplantation was 50 % greater and Cmax was 90 % greater than in those patients administered Sandimmune ® null .
AUC and Cmax are also increased ( cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] relative to Sandimmune ® null ) in heart transplant patients , but data are very limited .
Although the AUC and Cmax values are higher on cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] relative to Sandimmune ® null , the pre - dose trough concentrations ( dose - normalized ) are similar for the two formulations .
Following oral administration of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , the time to peak blood cyclosporine concentrations ( Tmax ) ranged from 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
The administration of food with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] decreases the cyclosporine AUC and Cmax .
A high fat meal ( 669 kcal , 45 grams fat ) consumed within one - half hour before cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] administration decreased the AUC by 13 % and Cmax by 33 % .
The effects of a low fat meal ( 667 kcal , 15 grams fat ) were similar .
The effect of T - tube diversion of bile on the absorption of cyclosporine from cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] was investigated in eleven de novo liver transplant patients .
When the patients were administered cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] with and without T - tube diversion of bile , very little difference in absorption was observed , as measured by the change in maximal cyclosporine blood concentrations from pre - dose values with the T - tube closed relative to when it was open : 6 . 9 ± 41 % ( range : 55 % to 68 % ) .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( mean ± SD ) Patient Population Dose / day [ 1 ] ( mg / d ) Dose / Weight ( mg / kg / d ) AUC [ 2 ] ( ng ∙ mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Trough [ 3 ] ( ng / mL ) CL / F ( mL / min ) CL / F ( mL / min / kg ) De novo renal transplant [ 4 ] Week 4 ( N = 37 ) 597 ± 174 7 . 95 ± 2 . 81 8772 ± 2089 1802 ± 428 361 ± 129 593 ± 204 7 . 8 ± 2 . 9 Stable renal transplant null [ 5 ] ( N = 55 ) 344 ± 122 4 . 10 ± 1 . 58 6035 ± 2194 1333 ± 469 251 ± 116 492 ± 140 5 . 9 ± 2 . 1 De novo liver transplant [ 6 ] Week 4 ( N = 18 ) 458 ± 190 6 . 89 ± 3 . 68 7187 ± 2816 1555 ± 740 268 ± 101 577 ± 309 8 . 6 ± 5 . 7 De novo rheumatoid arthritis [ 7 ] ( N = 23 ) 182 ± 55 . 6 2 . 37 ± 0 . 36 2641 ± 877 728 ± 263 96 . 4 ± 37 . 7 613 ± 196 8 . 3 ± 2 . 8 De novo psoriasis null Week 4 ( N = 18 ) 189 ± 69 . 8 2 . 48 ± 0 . 65 2324 ± 1048 655 ± 186 74 . 9 ± 46 . 7 723 ± 186 10 . 2 ± 3 . 9 [ 1 ] Total daily dose was divided into two doses administered every 12 hours [ 2 ] AUC was measured over one dosing interval [ 3 ] Trough concentration was measured just prior to the morning cyclosporine [ Modified ] dose , approximately 12 hours after the previous dose [ 4 ] Assay : TDx specific monoclonal fluorescence polarization immunoassay [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Assay : Cyclo - trac specific monoclonal radioimmunoassay [ 7 ] Assay : INCSTAR specific monoclonal radioimmunoassay Distribution Cyclosporine is distributed largely outside the blood volume .
The steady state volume of distribution during intravenous dosing has been reported as 3 to 5 L / kg in solid organ transplant recipients .
In blood , the distribution is concentration dependent .
Approximately 33 % to 47 % is in plasma , 4 % to 9 % in lymphocytes , 5 % to 12 % in granulocytes , and 41 % to 58 % in erythrocytes .
At high concentrations , the binding capacity of leukocytes and erythrocytes becomes saturated .
In plasma , approximately 90 % is bound to proteins , primarily lipoproteins .
Cyclosporine is excreted in human milk .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers ) Metabolism Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by the cytochrome P - 450 3 A enzyme system in the liver , and to a lesser degree in the gastrointestinal tract , and the kidney .
The metabolism of cyclosporine can be altered by the coadministration of a variety of agents .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) At least 25 metabolites have been identified from human bile , feces , blood , and urine .
The biological activity of the metabolites and their contributions to toxicity are considerably less than those of the parent compound .
The major metabolites ( M1 , M9 , and M4N ) result from oxidation at the 1 - beta , 9 - gamma , and 4 - N - demethylated positions , respectively .
At steady state following the oral administration of Sandimmune ® null , the mean AUCs for blood concentrations of M1 , M9 , and M4N are about 70 % , 21 % , and 7 . 5 % of the AUC for blood cyclosporine concentrations , respectively .
Based on blood concentration data from stable renal transplant patients ( 13 patients administered cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and Sandimmune ® null in a crossover study ) , and bile concentration data from de novo liver transplant patients ( 4 administered cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , 3 administered Sandimmune ® null , the percentage of dose present as M1 , M9 , and M4N metabolites is similar when either cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] or Sandimmune ® null is administered .
Excretion Only 0 . 1 % of a cyclosporine dose is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Elimination is primarily biliary with only 6 % of the dose ( parent drug and metabolites ) excreted in the urine .
Neither dialysis nor renal failure alter cyclosporine clearance significantly .
Drug Interactions ( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) When diclofenac or methotrexate was coadministered with cyclosporine in rheumatoid arthritis patients , the AUC of diclofenac and methotrexate , each was significantly increased .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions occurred between cyclosporine and aspirin , ketoprofen , piroxicam , or indomethacin .
Specific Populations Renal impairment In a study performed in 4 subjects with end - stage renal disease ( creatinine clearance < 5 mL / min ) , an intravenous infusion of 3 . 5 mg / kg of cyclosporine over 4 hours administered at the end of a hemodialysis session resulted in a mean volume of distribution ( Vdss ) of 3 . 49 L / kg and systemic clearance ( CL ) of 0 . 369 L / hr / kg .
This systemic CL ( 0 . 369 L / hr / kg ) was approximately two thirds of the mean systemic CL ( 0 . 56 L / hr / kg ) of cyclosporine in historical control subjects with normal renal function .
In 5 liver transplant patients , the mean clearance of cyclosporine on and off hemodialysis was 463 mL / min and 398 mL / min , respectively .
Less than 1 % of the dose of cyclosporine was recovered in the dialysate .
Hepatic Impairment Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by the liver .
Since severe hepatic impairment may result in significantly increased cyclosporine exposures , the dosage of cyclosporine may need to be reduced in these patients .
Pediatric Population Pharmacokinetic data from pediatric patients administered cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] or Sandimmune ® null are very limited .
In 15 renal transplant patients aged 3 to 16 years , cyclosporine whole blood clearance after IV administration of Sandimmune ® null was 10 . 6 ± 3 . 7 mL / min / kg ( assay : Cyclo - trac specific RIA ) .
In a study of 7 renal transplant patients aged 2 to 16 , the cyclosporine clearance ranged from 9 . 8 to 15 . 5 mL / min / kg .
In 9 liver transplant patients aged 0 . 6 to 5 . 6 years , clearance was 9 . 3 ± 5 . 4 mL / min / kg ( assay : HPLC ) .
In the pediatric population , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] also demonstrates an increased bioavailability as compared to Sandimmune ® null .
In 7 liver de novo transplant patients aged 1 . 4 to 10 years , the absolute bioavailability of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] was 43 % ( range : 30 % to 68 % ) and for Sandimmune ® null in the same individuals absolute bioavailability was 28 % ( range : 17 % to 42 % ) .
Pediatric Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( mean ± SD ) Patient Population Dose / day ( mg / d ) Dose / weight ( mg / kg / d ) AUC [ 1 ] ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) CL / F ( mL / min ) CL / F ( mL / min / kg ) Stable liver transplant [ 2 ] Age 2 to 8 , Dosed TID ( N = 9 ) 101 ± 25 5 . 95 ± 1 . 32 2163 ± 801 629 ± 219 285 ± 94 16 . 6 ± 4 . 3 Age 8 to 15 , Dosed BID ( N = 8 ) 188 ± 55 4 . 96 ± 2 . 09 4272 ± 1462 975 ± 281 378 ± 80 10 . 2 ± 4 Stable liver transplant [ 3 ] Age 3 , Dosed BID ( N = 1 ) 120 8 . 33 5832 1050 171 11 . 9 Age 8 to 15 , Dosed BID ( N = 5 ) 158 ± 55 5 . 51 ± 1 . 91 4452 ± 2475 1013 ± 635 328 ± 121 11 ± 1 . 9 Stable renal transplant null Age 7 to 15 , Dosed BID ( N = 5 ) 328 ± 83 7 . 37 ± 4 . 11 6922 ± 1988 1827 ± 487 418 ± 143 8 . 7 ± 2 . 9 [ 1 ] AUC was measured over one dosing interval [ 2 ] Assay : Cyclo - trac specific monoclonal radioimmunoassay [ 3 ] Assay : TDx specific monoclonal fluorescence polarization immunoassay Geriatric Population Comparison of single dose data from both normal elderly volunteers ( N = 18 , mean age 69 years ) and elderly rheumatoid arthritis patients ( N = 16 , mean age 68 years ) to single dose data in young adult volunteers ( N = 16 , mean age 26 years ) showed no significant difference in the pharmacokinetic parameters .
CLINICAL TRIALS Rheumatoid Arthritis The effectiveness of Sandimmune ® null ( cyclosporine ) and cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] in the treatment of severe rheumatoid arthritis was evaluated in 5 clinical studies involving a total of 728 cyclosporine treated patients and 273 placebo treated patients .
A summary of the results is presented for the " responder " rates per treatment group , with a responder being defined as a patient having completed the trial with a 20 % improvement in the tender and the swollen joint count and a 20 % improvement in 2 of 4 of investigator global , patient global , disability , and erythrocyte sedimentation rates ( ESR ) for the Studies 651 and 652 and 3 of 5 of investigator global , patient global , disability , visual analog pain , and ESR for Studies 2008 , 654 and 302 .
Study 651 enrolled 264 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis with at least 20 involved joints , who had failed at least one major RA drug , using a 3 : 3 : 2 randomization to one of the following three groups : ( 1 ) cyclosporine dosed at 2 . 5 to 5 mg / kg / day , ( 2 ) methotrexate at 7 . 5 to 15 mg / week , or ( 3 ) placebo .
Treatment duration was 24 weeks .
The mean cyclosporine dose at the last visit was 3 . 1 mg / kg / day .
See Graph below .
Study 652 enrolled 250 patients with active RA with > 6 active painful or tender joints who had failed at least one major RA drug .
Patients were randomized using a 3 : 3 : 2 randomization to 1 of 3 treatment arms : ( 1 ) 1 . 5 to 5 mg / kg / day of cyclosporine , ( 2 ) 2 . 5 to 5 mg / kg / day of cyclosporine , and ( 3 ) placebo .
Treatment duration was 16 weeks .
The mean cyclosporine dose for group 2 at the last visit was 2 . 92 mg / kg / day .
See Graph below .
Study 2008 enrolled 144 patients with active RA and > 6 active joints who had unsuccessful treatment courses of aspirin and gold or Penicillamine .
Patients were randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups : ( 1 ) cyclosporine 2 . 5 to 5 mg / kg / day with adjustments after the first month to achieve a target trough level and ( 2 ) placebo .
Treatment duration was 24 weeks .
The mean cyclosporine dose at the last visit was 3 . 63 mg / kg / day .
See Graph below .
Study 654 enrolled 148 patients who remained with active joint counts of 6 or more despite treatment with maximally tolerated methotrexate doses for at least three months .
Patients continued to take their current dose of methotrexate and were randomized to receive , in addition , one of the following medications : ( 1 ) cyclosporine 2 . 5 mg / kg / day with dose increases of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day at weeks 2 and 4 if there was no evidence of toxicity and further increases of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day at weeks 8 and 16 if a < 30 % decrease in active joint count occurred without any significant toxicity ; dose decreases could be made at any time for toxicity or ( 2 ) placebo .
Treatment duration was 24 weeks .
The mean cyclosporine dose at the last visit was 2 . 8 mg / kg / day ( range : 1 . 3 to 4 . 1 ) .
See Graph below .
Study 302 enrolled 299 patients with severe active RA , 99 % of whom were unresponsive or intolerant to at least one prior major RA drug .
Patients were randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups : ( 1 ) cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and ( 2 ) Sandimmune ® null , both of which were started at 2 . 5 mg / kg / day and increased after 4 weeks for inefficacy in increments of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day to a maximum of 5 mg / kg / day and decreased at any time for toxicity .
Treatment duration was 24 weeks .
The mean cyclosporine dose at the last visit was 2 . 91 mg / kg / day ( range : 0 . 72 to 5 . 17 ) for cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and 3 . 27 mg / kg / day ( range : 0 . 73 to 5 . 68 ) for Sandimmune ® null .
See Graph below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Kidney , Liver , and Heart Transplantation Cyclosporine capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney , liver , and heart allogeneic transplants .
Cyclosporine capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] have been used in combination with azathioprine and corticosteroids .
Rheumatoid Arthritis Cyclosporine capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] are indicated for the treatment of patients with severe active , rheumatoid arthritis where the disease has not adequately responded to methotrexate .
Cyclosporine capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] can be used in combination with methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis patients who do not respond adequately to methotrexate alone .
Psoriasis Cyclosporine capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] are indicated for the treatment of adult , nonimmunocompromised patients with severe ( i . e . , extensive and / or disabling ) , recalcitrant , plaque psoriasis who have failed to respond to at least one systemic therapy ( e . g . , PUVA , retinoids , or methotrexate ) or in patients for whom other systemic therapies are contraindicated , or cannot be tolerated .
While rebound rarely occurs , most patients will experience relapse with cyclosporine , USP [ MODIFIED ] as with other therapies upon cessation of treatment .
CONTRAINDICATIONS General Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to cyclosporine or to any of the ingredients of the formulation .
Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis patients with abnormal renal function , uncontrolled hypertension , or malignancies should not receive cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Psoriasis Psoriasis patients who are treated with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should not receive concomitant PUVA or UVB therapy , methotrexate or other immunosuppressive agents , coal tar or radiation therapy .
Psoriasis patients with abnormal renal function , uncontrolled hypertension , or malignancies should not receive cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
WARNINGS ( See also Boxed WARNING ) All Patients Cyclosporine , the active ingredient in cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] , can cause nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity .
The risk increases with increasing doses of cyclosporine .
Renal dysfunction including structural kidney damage is a potential consequence of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and therefore renal function must be monitored during therapy .
Care should be taken in using cyclosporine with nephrotoxic drugs .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) Patients receiving cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] require frequent monitoring of serum creatinine .
( See Special Monitoring under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Elderly patients should be monitored with particular care , since decreases in renal function also occur with age .
If patients are not properly monitored and doses are not properly adjusted , cyclosporine therapy can be associated with the occurrence of structural kidney damage and persistent renal dysfunction .
An increase in serum creatinine and BUN may occur during cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] therapy and reflect a reduction in the glomerular filtration rate .
Impaired renal function at any time requires close monitoring , and frequent dosage adjustment may be indicated .
The frequency and severity of serum creatinine elevations increase with dose and duration of cyclosporine therapy .
These elevations are likely to become more pronounced without dose reduction or discontinuation .
Because cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] are not bioequivalent to Sandimmune ® null ( cyclosporine ) , conversion from cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] to Sandimmune ® null using a 1 : 1 ratio ( mg / kg / day ) may result in lower cyclosporine blood concentrations .
Conversion from cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] to Sandimmune ® null should be made with increased monitoring to avoid the potential of underdosing .
Kidney , Liver , and Heart Transplant Nephrotoxicity Cyclosporine , the active ingredient of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , can cause nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity when used in high doses .
It is not unusual for serum creatinine and BUN levels to be elevated during cyclosporine therapy .
These elevations in renal transplant patients do not necessarily indicate rejection , and each patient must be fully evaluated before dosage adjustment is initiated .
Based on the historical Sandimmune ® null experience with oral solution , nephrotoxicity associated with cyclosporine had been noted in 25 % of cases of renal transplantation , 38 % of cases of cardiac transplantation , and 37 % of cases of liver transplantation .
Mild nephrotoxicity was generally noted 2 to 3 months after renal transplant and consisted of an arrest in the fall of the pre - operative elevations of BUN and creatinine at a range of 35 to 45 mg / dL and 2 to 2 . 5 mg / dL respectively .
These elevations were often responsive to cyclosporine dosage reduction .
More overt nephrotoxicity was seen early after transplantation and was characterized by a rapidly rising BUN and creatinine .
Since these events are similar to renal rejection episodes , care must be taken to differentiate between them .
This form of nephrotoxicity is usually responsive to cyclosporine dosage reduction .
Although specific diagnostic criteria which reliably differentiate renal graft rejection from drug toxicity have not been found , a number of parameters have been significantly associated with one or the other .
It should be noted , however , that up to 20 % of patients may have simultaneous nephrotoxicity and rejection .
Nephrotoxicity vs . RejectionParameter Nephrotoxicity Rejection History Donor > 50 years old or hypotensive Prolonged kidney preservation Prolonged anastomosis time Concomitant nephrotoxic drugs Anti - donor immune response Retransplant patient Clinical Often > 6 weeks postop [ 1 ] Prolonged initial nonfunction ( acute tubular necrosis ) Often < 4 weeks postop null Fever > 37 . 5 ° C Weight gain > 0 . 5 kg Graft swelling and tenderness Decrease in daily urine volume > 500 mL ( or 50 % ) Laboratory CyA serum trough level > 200 ng / mL Gradual rise in Cr ( < 0 . 15 mg / dL / day ) [ 2 ] Cr plateau < 25 % above baseline BUN / Cr ≥ 20 CyA serum trough level < 150 ng / mL Rapid rise in Cr ( > 0 . 3 mg / dL / day ) null Cr > 25 % above baseline BUN / Cr < 20 Biopsy Arteriolopathy ( medial hypertrophy null , hyalinosis , nodular deposits , intimal thickening , endothelial vacuolization , vacuolization , progressive scarring ) Endovasculitis null ( proliferation null , intimalarteritis null , necrosis , sclerosis ) Tubular atrophy , isometric vacuolization , isolated calcifications Minimal edema Mild focal infiltrates [ 3 ] Tubulitis with RBC null and WBC null casts , some irregular vacuolization Interstitial edema null and hemorrhage null Diffuse moderate to severe mononuclear infiltrates [ 4 ] Glomerulitis ( mononuclear cells ) null Diffuse interstitial fibrosis , often striped form Aspiration Cytology CyA deposits in tubular and endothelial cells Fine isometric vacuolization of tubular cells Inflammatory infiltrate with mononuclear phagocytes , macrophages , lymphoblastoid cells , and activated T - cells These strongly express HLA - DR antigens Urine Cytology Tubular cells with vacuolization and granularization Degenerative tubular cells , plasma cells , and lymphocyturia > 20 % of sediment Manometry Intracapsular pressure < 40 mm Hg null Intracapsular pressure > 40 mm Hg null Ultrasonography Unchanged graft cross sectional area Increase in graft cross sectional area AP diameter ≥ Transverse diameter Magnetic Resonance Imagery Normal appearance Loss of distinct corticomedullary junction , swelling image intensity of parachyma approaching that of psoas , loss of hilar fat Radionuclide Scan Normal or generally decreased perfusion Decrease in tubular function ( 131 I - hippuran ) > decrease in perfusion ( 99 m Tc DTPA ) Patchy arterial flow Decrease in perfusion > decrease in tubular function Increased uptake of Indium 111 labeled platelets or Tc - 99 m in colloid Therapy Responds to decreased cyclosporine Responds to increased steroids or antilymphocyte globulin [ 1 ] p < 0 . 01 , [ 2 ] p < 0 . 05 , [ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 , [ 4 ] p < 0 . 0001 A form of a cyclosporine - associated nephropathy is characterized by serial deterioration in renal function and morphologic changes in the kidneys .
From 5 % to 15 % of transplant recipients who have received cyclosporine will fail to show a reduction in rising serum creatinine despite a decrease or discontinuation of cyclosporine therapy .
Renal biopsies from these patients will demonstrate one or several of the following alterations : tubular vacuolization , tubular microcalcifications , peritubular capillary congestion , arteriolopathy , and a striped form of interstitial fibrosis with tubular atrophy .
Though none of these morphologic changes is entirely specific , a diagnosis of cyclosporine - associated structural nephrotoxicity requires evidence of these findings .
When considering the development of cyclosporine - associated nephropathy , it is noteworthy that several authors have reported an association between the appearance of interstitial fibrosis and higher cumulative doses or persistently high circulating trough concentrations of cyclosporine .
This is particularly true during the first 6 post - transplant months when the dosage tends to be highest and when , in kidney recipients , the organ appears to be most vulnerable to the toxic effects of cyclosporine .
Among other contributing factors to the development of interstitial fibrosis in these patients are prolonged perfusion time , warm ischemia time , as well as episodes of acute toxicity , and acute and chronic rejection .
The reversibility of interstitial fibrosis and its correlation to renal function have not yet been determined .
Reversibility of arteriolopathy has been reported after stopping cyclosporine or lowering the dosage .
Impaired renal function at any time requires close monitoring , and frequent dosage adjustment may be indicated .
In the event of severe and unremitting rejection , when rescue therapy with pulse steroids and monoclonal antibodies fail to reverse the rejection episode , it may be preferable to switch to alternative immunosuppressive therapy rather than increase the cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] dose to excessive blood concentrations .
Due to the potential for additive or synergistic impairment of renal function , caution should be exercised when coadministering cyclosporine with other drugs that may impair renal function .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) Thrombotic Microangiopathy Occasionally patients have developed a syndrome of thrombocytopenia and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia which may result in graft failure .
The vasculopathy can occur in the absence of rejection and is accompanied by avid platelet consumption within the graft as demonstrated by Indium 111 labeled platelet studies .
Neither the pathogenesis nor the management of this syndrome is clear .
Though resolution has occurred after reduction or discontinuation of cyclosporine and 1 ) administration of streptokinase and heparin or 2 ) plasmapheresis , this appears to depend upon early detection with Indium 111 labeled platelet scans .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) Hyperkalemia Significant hyperkalemia ( sometimes associated with hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis ) and hyperuricemia have been seen occasionally in individual patients .
Hepatotoxicity Cases of hepatotoxicity and liver injury including cholestasis , jaundice , hepatitis and liver failure have been reported in patients treated with cyclosporine .
Most reports included patients with significant co - morbidities , underlying conditions and other confounding factors including infectious complications and comedications with hepatotoxic potential .
In some cases , mainly in transplant patients , fatal outcomes have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Postmarketing Experience , Kidney , Liver and Heart Transplantation ) .
Hepatotoxicity usually manifested by elevations of hepatic enzymes and bilirubin , was reported in patients treated with cyclosporine in clinical trials : 4 % in renal transplantation , 7 % in cardiac transplantation , and 4 % of cases of in liver transplantation .
This was usually noted during the first month of therapy when high doses of cyclosporine were used .
The chemistry elevations usually decreased with a reduction in dosage .
Malignancies As in patients receiving other immunosuppressants , those patients receiving cyclosporine are at increased risk for development of lymphomas and other malignancies , particularly those of the skin .
Patients taking cyclosporine should be warned to avoid excess ultraviolet light exposure .
The increased risk appears related to the intensity and duration of immunosuppression rather than to the use of specific agents .
Because of the danger of oversuppression of the immune system resulting in increased risk of infection or malignancy , a treatment regimen containing multiple immunosuppressants should be used with caution .
Transplant patients receiving cyclosporine are at increased risk for serious infection with fatal outcome .
Serious Infections Patients receiving immunosuppressants , including cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , are at increased risk of developing bacterial , viral , fungal , and protozoal infections , including opportunistic infections .
These infections may lead to serious , including fatal , outcomes ( see BOXED WARNING and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Polyoma Virus Infections Patients receiving immunosuppressants including cyclosporine are at increased risk for opportunistic infections , including polyoma virus infections .
Polyoma virus infections in transplant patients may have serious , and sometimes , fatal outcomes .
These include cases of JC virus - associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) and polyoma virus - associated nephropathy ( PVAN ) especially due to BK virus infection which have been observed in patients receiving cyclosporine .
PVAN is associated with serious outcomes , including deteriorating renal function and renal graft loss , ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS / Postmarketing Experience , Kidney , Liver and Heart Transplantation ) .
Patient monitoring may help detect patients at risk for PVAN . Cases of PML have been reported in patients treated with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
PML , which is sometimes fatal , commonly presents with hemiparesis , apathy , confusion , cognitive deficiencies and ataxia .
Risk factors for PML include treatment with immunosuppressant therapies and impairment of immune function .
In immunosuppressed patients , physicians should consider PML in the differential diagnosis in patients reporting neurological symptoms and consultation with a neurologist should be considered as clinically indicated .
Consideration should be given to reducing the total immunosuppression in transplant patients who develop PML or PVAN .
However , reduced immunosuppression may place the graft at risk .
Neurotoxicity There have been reports of convulsions in adult and pediatric patients receiving cyclosporine , particularly in combination with high dose methylprednisolone .
Encephalopathy , including Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome ( PRES ) , has been described both in post - marketing reports and in the literature .
Manifestations include impaired consciousness , convulsions , visual disturbances ( including blindness ) , loss of motor function , movement disorders and psychiatric disturbances .
In many cases , changes in the white matter have been detected using imaging techniques and pathologic specimens .
Predisposing factors such as hypertension , hypomagnesemia , hypocholesterolemia , high - dose corticosteroids , high cyclosporine blood concentrations , and graft - versus - host disease have been noted in many but not all of the reported cases .
The changes in most cases have been reversible upon discontinuation of cyclosporine , and in some cases improvement was noted after reduction of dose .
It appears that patients receiving liver transplant are more susceptible to encephalopathy than those receiving kidney transplant .
Another rare manifestation of cyclosporine - induced neurotoxicity , occurring in transplant patients more frequently than in other indications , is optic disc edema including papilloedema , with possible visual impairment , secondary to benign intracranial hypertension .
Care should be taken in using cyclosporine with nephrotoxic drugs .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) Rheumatoid Arthritis Cyclosporine nephropathy was detected in renal biopsies of 6 out of 60 ( 10 % ) rheumatoid arthritis patients after the average treatment duration of 19 months .
Only one patient , out of these 6 patients , was treated with a dose < 4 mg / kg / day .
Serum creatinine improved in all but one patient after discontinuation of cyclosporine .
The " maximal creatinine increase " appears to be a factor in predicting cyclosporine nephropathy .
There is a potential , as with other immunosuppressive agents , for an increase in the occurrence of malignant lymphomas with cyclosporine .
It is not clear whether the risk with cyclosporine is greater than that in rheumatoid arthritis patients or in rheumatoid arthritis patients on cytotoxic treatment for this indication .
Five cases of lymphoma were detected : four in a survey of approximately 2 , 300 patients treated with cyclosporine for rheumatoid arthritis , and another case of lymphoma was reported in a clinical trial .
Although other tumors ( 12 skin cancers , 24 solid tumors of diverse types , and 1 multiple myeloma ) were also reported in this survey , epidemiologic analyses did not support a relationship to cyclosporine other than for malignant lymphomas .
Patients should be thoroughly evaluated before and during cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] treatment for the development of malignancies .
Moreover , use of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] therapy with other immunosuppressive agents may induce an excessive immunosuppression which is known to increase the risk of malignancy .
Psoriasis ( See also Boxed WARNINGS for Psoriasis ) Since cyclosporine is a potent immunosuppressive agent with a number of potentially serious side effects , the risks and benefits of using cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be considered before treatment of patients with psoriasis .
Cyclosporine , the active ingredient in cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , can cause nephrotoxicity and hypertension ( see PRECAUTIONS ) and the risk increases with increasing dose and duration of therapy .
Patients who may be at increased risk such as those with abnormal renal function , uncontrolled hypertension or malignancies , should not receive cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Renal dysfunction is a potential consequence of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , therefore renal function must be monitored during therapy .
Patients receiving cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] require frequent monitoring of serum creatinine .
( See Special Monitoring under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Elderly patients should be monitored with particular care , since decreases in renal function also occur with age .
If patients are not properly monitored and doses are not properly adjusted , cyclosporine therapy can cause structural kidney damage and persistent renal dysfunction .
An increase in serum creatinine and BUN may occur during cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] therapy and reflects a reduction in the glomerular filtration rate .
Kidney biopsies from 86 psoriasis patients treated for a mean duration of 23 months with 1 . 2 to 7 . 6 mg / kg / day of cyclosporine showed evidence of cyclosporine nephropathy in 18 / 86 ( 21 % ) of the patients .
The pathology consisted of renal tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis .
On repeat biopsy of 13 of these patients maintained on various dosages of cyclosporine for a mean of 2 additional years , the number with cyclosporine induced nephropathy rose to 26 / 86 ( 30 % ) .
The majority of patients ( 19 / 26 ) were on a dose of > 5 mg / kg / day ( the highest recommended dose is 4 mg / kg / day ) .
The patients were also on cyclosporine for greater than 15 months ( 18 / 26 ) and / or had a clinically significant increase in serum creatinine for greater than 1 month ( 21 / 26 ) .
Creatinine levels returned to normal range in 7 of 11 patients in whom cyclosporine therapy was discontinued .
There is an increased risk for the development of skin and lymphoproliferative malignancies in cyclosporine - treated psoriasis patients .
The relative risk of malignancies is comparable to that observed in psoriasis patients treated with other immunosuppressive agents .
Tumors were reported in 32 ( 2 . 2 % ) of 1439 psoriasis patients treated with cyclosporine worldwide from clinical trials .
Additional tumors have been reported in 7 patients in cyclosporine postmarketing experience .
Skin malignancies were reported in 16 ( 1 . 1 % ) of these patients ; all but 2 of them had previously received PUVA therapy .
Methotrexate was received by 7 patients .
UVB and coal tar had been used by 2 and 3 patients , respectively .
Seven patients had either a history of previous skin cancer or a potentially predisposing lesion was present prior to cyclosporine exposure .
Of the 16 patients with skin cancer , 11 patients had 18 squamous cell carcinomas and 7 patients had 10 basal cell carcinomas .
There were two lymphoproliferative malignancies : one case of non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma which required chemotherapy , and one case of mycosis fungoides which regressed spontaneously upon discontinuation of cyclosporine .
There were four cases of benign lymphocytic infiltration : 3 regressed spontaneously upon discontinuation of cyclosporine , while the fourth regressed despite continuation of the drug .
The remainder of the malignancies , 13 cases ( 0 . 9 % ) , involved various organs .
Patients should not be treated concurrently with cyclosporine and PUVA or UVB , other radiation therapy , or other immunosuppressive agents , because of the possibility of excessive immunosuppression and the subsequent risk of malignancies .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Patients should also be warned to protect themselves appropriately when in the sun , and to avoid excessive sun exposure .
Patients should be thoroughly evaluated before and during treatment for the presence of malignancies , remembering that malignant lesions may be hidden by psoriatic plaques .
Skin lesions not typical of psoriasis should be biopsied before starting treatment .
Patients should be treated with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] only after complete resolution of suspicious lesions , and only if there are no other treatment options .
( See Special Monitoring of Psoriasis Patients ) Specific Excipients Alcohol ( ethanol ) The alcohol content ( See DESCRIPTION ) of cyclosporine should be taken into account when given to patients in whom alcohol intake should be avoided or minimized , e . g . pregnant or breast feeding women , in patients presenting with liver disease or epilepsy , in alcoholic patients , or pediatric patients .
For an adult weighing 70 kg , the maximum daily oral dose would deliver about 1 gram of alcohol which is approximately 6 % of the amount of alcohol contained in a standard drink .
PRECAUTIONS General Hypertension Cyclosporine is the active ingredient of cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] .
Hypertension is a common side effect of cyclosporine therapy which may persist .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for monitoring recommendations . )
Mild or moderate hypertension is encountered more frequently than severe hypertension and the incidence decreases over time .
In recipients of kidney , liver , and heart allografts treated with cyclosporine , antihypertensive therapy may be required .
( See Special Monitoring of Rheumatoid Arthritis and Psoriasis Patients . )
However , since cyclosporine may cause hyperkalemia , potassium - sparing diuretics should not be used .
While calcium antagonists can be effective agents in treating cyclosporine - associated hypertension , they can interfere with cyclosporine metabolism .
( See Drug Interactions . )
Vaccination During treatment with cyclosporine , vaccination may be less effective ; and the use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided .
Special Monitoring of Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Before initiating treatment , a careful physical examination , including blood pressure measurements ( on at least two occasions ) and two creatinine levels to estimate baseline should be performed .
Blood pressure and serum creatinine should be evaluated every 2 weeks during the initial 3 months and then monthly if the patient is stable .
It is advisable to monitor serum creatinine and blood pressure always after an increase of the dose of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs and after initiation of new nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug therapy during cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] treatment .
If coadministered with methotrexate , CBC and liver function tests are recommended to be monitored monthly .
( See also PRECAUTIONS , General , Hypertension ) In patients who are receiving cyclosporine , the dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be decreased by 25 % to 50 % if hypertension occurs .
If hypertension persists , the dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be further reduced or blood pressure should be controlled with anti - hypertensive agents .
In most cases , blood pressure has returned to baseline when cyclosporine was discontinued .
In placebo - controlled trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients , systolic hypertension ( defined as an occurrence of two systolic blood pressure readings > 140 mm Hg ) and diastolic hypertension ( defined as two diastolic blood pressure readings > 90 mm Hg ) occurred in 33 % and 19 % of patients treated with cyclosporine , respectively .
The corresponding placebo rates were 22 % and 8 % .
Special Monitoring of Psoriasis Patients Before initiating treatment , a careful dermatological and physical examination , including blood pressure measurements ( on at least two occasions ) should be performed .
Since cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is an immunosuppressive agent , patients should be evaluated for the presence of occult infection on their first physical examination and for the presence of tumors initially , and throughout treatment with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Skin lesions not typical for psoriasis should be biopsied before starting cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Patients with malignant or premalignant changes of the skin should be treated with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] only after appropriate treatment of such lesions and if no other treatment option exists .
Baseline laboratories should include serum creatinine ( on two occasions ) , BUN , CBC , serum magnesium , potassium , uric acid , and lipids .
The risk of cyclosporine nephropathy is reduced when the starting dose is low ( 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ) , the maximum dose does not exceed 4 mg / kg / day , serum creatinine is monitored regularly while cyclosporine is administered , and the dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is decreased when the rise in creatinine is greater than or equal to 25 % above the patient ' s pretreatment level .
The increase in creatinine is generally reversible upon timely decrease of the dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] or its discontinuation .
Serum creatinine and BUN should be evaluated every 2 weeks during the initial 3 months of therapy and then monthly if the patient is stable .
If the serum creatinine is greater than or equal to 25 % above the patient ' s pretreatment level , serum creatinine should be repeated within two weeks .
If the change in serum creatinine remains greater than or equal to 25 % above baseline , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be reduced by 25 % to 50 % .
If at any time the serum creatinine increases by greater than or equal to 50 % above pretreatment level , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be reduced by 25 % to 50 % .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be discontinued if reversibility ( within 25 % of baseline ) of serum creatinine is not achievable after two dosage modifications .
It is advisable to monitor serum creatinine after an increase of the dose of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug and after initiation of new nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory therapy during cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] treatment .
Blood pressure should be evaluated every 2 weeks during the initial 3 months of therapy and then monthly if the patient is stable , or more frequently when dosage adjustments are made .
Patients without a history of previous hypertension before initiation of treatment with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should have the drug reduced by 25 % to 50 % if found to have sustained hypertension .
If the patient continues to be hypertensive despite multiple reductions of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , then cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be discontinued .
For patients with treated hypertension , before the initiation of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] therapy , their medication should be adjusted to control hypertension while on cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be discontinued if a change in hypertension management is not effective or tolerable .
CBC , uric acid , potassium , lipids , and magnesium should also be monitored every 2 weeks for the first 3 months of therapy , and then monthly if the patient is stable or more frequently when dosage adjustments are made .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] dosage should be reduced by 25 % to 50 % for any abnormality of clinical concern .
In controlled trials of cyclosporine in psoriasis patients , cyclosporine blood concentrations did not correlate well with either improvement or with side effects such as renal dysfunction .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised that any change of cyclosporine formulation should be made cautiously and only under physician supervision because it may result in the need for a change in dosage .
Patients should be informed of the necessity of repeated laboratory tests while they are receiving cyclosporine .
Patients should be advised of the potential risks during pregnancy and informed of the increased risk of neoplasia .
Patients should also be informed of the risk of hypertension and renal dysfunction .
Patients should be advised that during treatment with cyclosporine , vaccination may be less effective and the use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided .
Patients should be given careful dosage instructions .
Cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] should be diluted , preferably with orange or apple juice that is at room temperature .
The combination of cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] with milk can be unpalatable .
Patients should be advised to take cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] on a consistent schedule with regard to time of day and relation to meals .
Grapefruit and grapefruit juice affect metabolism , increasing blood concentration of cyclosporine , thus should be avoided .
Laboratory Tests In all patients treated with cyclosporine , renal and liver functions should be assessed repeatedly by measurement of serum creatinine , BUN , serum bilirubin , and liver enzymes .
Serum lipids , magnesium , and potassium should also be monitored .
Cyclosporine blood concentrations should be routinely monitored in transplant patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Blood Concentration Monitoring in Transplant Patients ) , and periodically monitored in rheumatoid arthritis patients .
Drug Interactions A . Effect of Drugs and Other Agents on Cyclosporine Pharmacokinetics and / or Safety All of the individual drugs cited below are well substantiated to interact with cyclosporine .
In addition , concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs with cyclosporine , particularly in the setting of dehydration , may potentiate renal dysfunction .
Caution should be exercised when using other drugs which are known to impair renal function .
( See WARNINGS , Nephrotoxicity ) Drugs That May Potentiate Renal Dysfunction Antibiotics Antineoplastics Antifungals Anti - inflammatory Drugs ciprofloxacin gentamicin tobramycin vancomycin trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole melphalan amphotericin B ketoconazole azapropazon colchicine diclofenac naproxen sulindac Gastrointestinal Agents Immunosuppressives Other Drugs cimetidine ranitidine tacrolimus fibric acid derivatives ( e . g . bezafibrate , fenofibrate ) methotrexate During the concomitant use of a drug that may exhibit additive or synergistic renal impairment with cyclosporine , close monitoring of renal function ( in particular serum creatinine ) should be performed .
If a significant impairment of renal function occurs , the dosage of the coadministered drug should be reduced or an alternative treatment considered .
Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP 3 A isoenzymes , in particular CYP3A4 , and is a substrate of the multidrug efflux transporter P - glycoprotein .
Various agents are known to either increase or decrease plasma or whole blood concentrations of cyclosporine usually by inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 or P - glycoprotein transporter or both .
Compounds that decrease cyclosporine absorption such as orlistat should be avoided .
Appropriate cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] dosage adjustment to achieve the desired cyclosporine concentrations is essential when drugs that significantly alter cyclosporine concentrations are used concomitantly .
( See Blood Concentration Monitoring ) 1 .
Drugs That Increase Cyclosporine Concentrations Calcium Channel Blockers Antibiotics Other Drugs diltiazem azithromycin allopurinol nicardipine clarithromycin amiodarone verapamil erythromycin bromocriptine quinupristin / dalfopristin colchicine Antifungals danazol fluconazole Glucocorticoids imatinib itraconazole methylprednisolone metoclopramide ketoconazole nefazodone voriconazole oral contraceptives HIV protease inhibitors The HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , indinavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir , and saquinavir ) are known to inhibit cytochrome P - 450 3 A and thus could potentially increase the concentrations of cyclosporine , however no formal studies of the interaction are available .
Care should be exercised when these drugs are administered concomitantly .
Grapefruit Juice Grapefruit and grapefruit juice affect metabolism , increasing blood concentrations of cyclosporine , thus should be avoided .
2 .
Drugs / Dietary Supplements That Decrease Cyclosporine Concentrations Antibiotics Anticonvulsants Other Drugs / Dietary Supplements nafcillin rifampin carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin bosentan octreotide orlistat sulfinpyrazone St . John ' s Wort terbinafine ticlopidine Bosentan Coadministration of bosentan ( 250 - 1000 mg every 12 hours based on tolerability ) and cyclosporine ( 300 mg every 12 hours for 2 days then dosing to achieve a Cmin of 200 - 250 ng / mL ) for 7 days in healthy subjects resulted in decreases in the cyclosporine mean dose - normalized AUC , Cmax , and trough concentration of approximately 50 % , 30 % and 60 % , respectively , compared to when cyclosporine was given alone ( See also Effect of Cyclosporine on the Pharmacokinetics and / or Safety of Other Drugs or Agents ) .
Coadministration of cyclosporine with bosentan should be avoided .
Boceprevir Coadministration of boceprevir ( 800 mg three times daily for 7 days ) and cyclosporine ( 100 mg single dose ) in healthy subjects resulted in increases in the mean AUC and Cmax of cyclosporine approximately 2 . 7 - fold and 2 - fold , respectively , compared to when cyclosporine was given alone .
Telaprevir Coadministration of telaprevir ( 750 mg every 8 hours for 11 days ) with cyclosporine ( 10 mg on day 8 ) in healthy subjects resulted in increases in the mean dose - normalized AUC and Cmax of cyclosporine approximately 4 . 5 - fold and 1 . 3 - fold , respectively , compared to when cyclosporine ( 100 mg single dose ) was given alone .
St . John ' s Wort There have been reports of a serious drug interaction between cyclosporine and the herbal dietary supplement , St . John ' s Wort .
This interaction has been reported to produce a marked reduction in the blood concentrations of cyclosporine , resulting in subtherapeutic levels , rejection of transplanted organs , and graft loss .
Rifabutin Rifabutin is known to increase the metabolism of other drugs metabolized by the cytochrome P - 450 system .
The interaction between rifabutin and cyclosporine has not been studied .
Care should be exercised when these two drugs are administered concomitantly .
B . Effect of Cyclosporine on the Pharmacokinetics and / or Safety of Other Drugs or Agents Cyclosporine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and of the multidrug efflux transporter ( e . g . P - glycoprotein ) and may increase plasma concentrations of comedications that are substrates of CYP3A4 or P - glycoprotein or organic anion transporter proteins .
Cyclosporine may reduce the clearance of digoxin , colchicine , prednisolone , HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors ( statins ) , and , aliskiren , bosentan , dabigatran , repaglinide , NSAIDs , sirolimus , etoposide , and other drugs .
See the full prescribing information of the other drug for further information and specific recommendations .
The decision on coadministration of cyclosporine with other drugs or agents should be made by the healthcare provider following the careful assessment of benefits and risks .
Digoxin Severe digitalis toxicity has been seen within days of starting cyclosporine in several patients taking digoxin .
If digoxin is used concurrently with cyclosporine , serum digoxin concentrations should be monitored .
Colchicine There are reports on the potential of cyclosporine to enhance the toxic effects of colchicine such as myopathy and neuropathy , especially in patients with renal dysfunction .
Concomitant administration of cyclosporine and colchicine results in significant increases in colchicine plasma concentrations .
If colchicine is used concurrently with cyclosporine , a reduction in the dosage of colchicine is recommended .
HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors ( statins ) Literature and postmarketing cases of myotoxicity , including pain and weakness , myositis , and rhabdomyolysis , have been reported with concomitant administration of cyclosporine with lovastatin , simvastatin , atorvastatin , pravastatin , and rarely fluvastatin .
When concurrently administered with cyclosporine , the dosage of these statins should be reduced according to label recommendations .
Statin therapy needs to be temporarily withheld or discontinued in patients with signs and symptoms of myopathy or those with risk factors predisposing to severe renal injury , including renal failure , secondary to rhabdomyolysis .
Repaglinide Cyclosporine may increase the plasma concentrations of repaglinide and thereby increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
In 12 healthy male subjects who received two doses of 100 mg cyclosporine capsule orally 12 hours apart with a single dose of 0 . 25 mg repaglinide tablet ( one half of a 0 . 5 mg tablet ) orally 13 hours after the cyclosporine initial dose , the repaglinide mean Cmax and AUC were increased 1 . 8 fold ( range : 0 . 6 - 3 . 7 fold ) and 2 . 4 fold ( range 1 . 2 - 5 . 3 fold ) , respectively .
Close monitoring of blood glucose level is advisable for a patient taking cyclosporine and repaglinide concomitantly .
Ambrisentan Coadministration of ambrisentan ( 5 mg daily ) and cyclosporine ( 100 - 150 mg twice daily initially , then dosing to achieve Cmin 150 - 200 ng / mL ) for 8 days in healthy subjects resulted in mean increases in ambrisentan AUC and Cmax of approximately 2 - fold and 1 . 5 - fold , respectively , compared to ambrisentan alone .
When coadministering ambrisentan with cyclosporine , the ambrisentan dose should not be titrated to the recommended maximum daily dose .
Anthracycline antibiotics High doses of cyclosporine ( e . g . , at starting intravenous dose of 16 mg / kg / day ) may increase the exposure to anthracycline antibiotics ( e . g . , doxorubicin , mitoxantrone , daunorubicin ) in cancer patients .
Aliskiren Cyclosporine alters the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren , a substrate of P - glycoprotein and CYP3A4 .
In 14 healthy subjects who received concomitantly single doses of cyclosporine ( 200 mg ) and reduced dose aliskiren ( 75 mg ) , the mean Cmax of aliskiren was increased by approximately 2 . 5 fold ( 90 % CI : 1 . 96 - 3 . 17 ) and the mean AUC by approximately 4 . 3 fold ( 90 % CI : 3 . 52 - 5 . 21 ) , compared to when these subjects received aliskiren alone .
The concomitant administration of aliskiren with cyclosporine prolonged the median aliskiren elimination half - life ( 26 hours versus 43 to 45 hours ) and the Tmax ( 0 . 5 hours versus 1 . 5 to 2 hours ) .
The mean AUC and Cmax of cyclosporine were comparable to reported literature values .
Coadministration of cyclosporine and aliskiren in these subjects also resulted in an increase in the number and / or intensity of adverse events , mainly headache , hot flush , nausea , vomiting , and somnolence .
The coadministration of cyclosporine with aliskiren is not recommended .
Bosentan In healthy subjects , coadministration of bosentan and cyclosporine resulted in mean increases in dose - normalized bosentan trough concentrations on day 1 and day 8 of approximately 21 - fold and 2 - fold , respectively , compared to when bosentan was given alone as a single dose on day 1 ( See also Effect of Drugs and Other Agents on Cyclosporine Pharmacokinetics and / or Safety ) .
Coadministration of cyclosporine with bosentan should be avoided .
Dabigatran The effect of cyclosporine on dabigatran concentrations had not been formally studied .
Concomitant administration of dabigatran and cyclosporine may result in increased plasma dabigatran concentrations due to the P - gp inhibitory activity of cyclosporine .
Coadministration of cyclosporine with dabigatran should be avoided .
Potassium - Sparing Diuretics Cyclosporine should not be used with potassium - sparing diuretics because hyperkalemia can occur .
Caution is also required when cyclosporine is coadministered with potassium sparing drugs ( e . g . angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor antagonists ) , potassium containing drugs as well as in patients on a potassium rich diet .
Control of potassium levels in these situations is advisable .
Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) Interactions Clinical status and serum creatinine should be closely monitored when cyclosporine is used with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents in rheumatoid arthritis patients .
( See WARNINGS ) Pharmacodynamic interactions have been reported to occur between cyclosporine and both naproxen and sulindac , in that concomitant use is associated with additive decreases in renal function , as determined by 99 mTc - diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( DTPA ) and ( p - aminohippuric acid ) PAH clearances .
Although concomitant administration of diclofenac does not affect blood concentrations of cyclosporine , it has been associated with approximate doubling of diclofenac blood concentrations and occasional reports of reversible decreases in renal function .
Consequently , the dose of diclofenac should be in the lower end of the therapeutic range .
Methotrexate Interaction Preliminary data indicate that when methotrexate and cyclosporine were coadministered to rheumatoid arthritis patients ( N = 20 ) , methotrexate concentrations ( AUCs ) were increased approximately 30 % and the concentrations ( AUCs ) of its metabolite , 7 - hydroxy methotrexate , were decreased by approximately 80 % .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known .
Cyclosporine concentrations do not appear to have been altered ( N = 6 ) .
Sirolimus Elevations in serum creatinine were observed in studies using sirolimus in combination with full - dose cyclosporine .
This effect is often reversible with cyclosporine dose reduction .
Simultaneous coadministration of cyclosporine significantly increases blood levels of sirolimus .
To minimize increases in sirolimus concentrations , it is recommended that sirolimus be given 4 hours after cyclosporine administration .
Nifedipine Frequent gingival hyperplasia when nifedipine is given concurrently with cyclosporine have been reported .
The concomitant use of nifedipine should be avoided in patients in whom gingival hyperplasia develops as a side effect of cyclosporine .
Methylprednisolone Convulsions when high dose methylprednisolone is given concurrently with cyclosporine have been reported .
Other Immunosuppressive Drugs and Agents Psoriasis patients receiving other immunosuppressive agents or radiation therapy ( including PUVA and UVB ) should not receive concurrent cyclosporine because of the possibility of excessive immunosuppression .
C . Effect of Cyclosporine on the Efficacy of Live Vaccines During treatment with cyclosporine , vaccination may be less effective .
The use of live vaccines should be avoided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies were carried out in male and female rats and mice .
In the 78 - week mouse study , evidence of a statistically significant trend was found for lymphocytic lymphomas in females , and the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in mid - dose males significantly exceeded the control value .
In the 24 - month rat study , pancreatic islet cell adenomas significantly exceeded the control rate in the low dose level .
Doses used in the mouse and rat studies were 0 . 01 to 0 . 16 times the clinical maintenance dose ( 6 mg / kg ) .
The hepatocellular carcinomas and pancreatic islet cell adenomas were not dose related .
Published reports indicate that co - treatment of hairless mice with UV irradiation and cyclosporine or other immunosuppressive agents shorten the time to skin tumor formation compared to UV irradiation alone .
Cyclosporine was not mutagenic in appropriate test systems .
Cyclosporine has not been found to be mutagenic / genotoxic in the Ames Test , the V79 - HGPRT Test , the micronucleus test in mice and Chinese hamsters , the chromosome - aberration tests in Chinese hamster bone - marrow , the mouse dominant lethal assay , and the DNA - repair test in sperm from treated mice .
A recent study analyzing sister chromatid exchange ( SCE ) induction by cyclosporine using human lymphocytes in vitro gave indication of a positive effect ( i . e . , induction of SCE ) , at high concentrations in this system .
In two published research studies , rabbits exposed to cyclosporine in utero ( 10 mg / kg / day subcutaneously ) demonstrated reduced numbers of nephrons , renal hypertrophy , systemic hypertension and progressive renal insufficiency up to 35 weeks of age .
Pregnant rats which received 12 mg / kg / day of cyclosporine intravenously ( twice the recommended human intravenous dose ) had fetuses with an increased incidence of ventricular septal defect .
These findings have not been demonstrated in other species and their relevance for humans is unknown .
No impairment in fertility was demonstrated in studies in male and female rats .
Widely distributed papillomatosis of the skin was observed after chronic treatment of dogs with cyclosporine at 9 times the human initial psoriasis treatment dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg , where doses are expressed on a body surface area basis .
This papillomatosis showed a spontaneous regression upon discontinuation of cyclosporine .
An increased incidence of malignancy is a recognized complication of immunosuppression in recipients of organ transplants and patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis .
The most common forms of neoplasms are non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma and carcinomas of the skin .
The risk of malignancies in cyclosporine recipients is higher than in the normal , healthy population but similar to that in patients receiving other immunosuppressive therapies .
Reduction or discontinuance of immunosuppression may cause the lesions to regress .
In psoriasis patients on cyclosporine , development of malignancies , especially those of the skin has been reported .
( See WARNINGS ) Skin lesions not typical for psoriasis should be biopsied before starting cyclosporine treatment .
Patients with malignant or premalignant changes of the skin should be treated with cyclosporine only after appropriate treatment of such lesions and if no other treatment option exists .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity in rats and rabbits .
Cyclosporine gave no evidence of mutagenic or teratogenic effects in the standard test systems with oral application ( rats up to 17 mg / kg and rabbits up to 30 mg / kg per day orally ) .
Only at dose levels toxic to dams were adverse effects seen in reproduction studies in rats .
Cyclosporine has been shown to be embryo - and fetotoxic in rats and rabbits following oral administration at maternally toxic doses .
Fetal toxicity was noted in rats at 0 . 8 and rabbits at 5 . 4 times the transplant doses in humans of 6 mg / kg , where dose corrections are based on body surface area .
Cyclosporine was embryo - and fetotoxic as indicated by increased pre - and postnatal mortality and reduced fetal weight together with related skeletal retardation .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women and , therefore Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In pregnant transplant recipients who are being treated with immunosuppressants the risk of premature births is increased .
The following data represent the reported outcomes of 116 pregnancies in women receiving cyclosporine during pregnancy , 90 % of whom were transplant patients , and most of whom received cyclosporine throughout the entire gestational period .
The only consistent patterns of abnormality were premature birth ( gestational period of 28 to 36 weeks ) and low birth weight for gestational age .
Sixteen fetal losses occurred .
Most of the pregnancies ( 85 of 100 ) were complicated by disorders ; including , pre - eclampsia , eclampsia , premature labor , abruptio placentae , oligohydramnios , Rh incompatibility , and fetoplacental dysfunction .
Pre - term delivery occurred in 47 % .
Seven malformations were reported in 5 viable infants and in 2 cases of fetal loss .
Twenty - eight percent of the infants were small for gestational age .
Neonatal complications occurred in 27 % .
Therefore , the risks and benefits of using cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] during pregnancy should be carefully weighed .
A limited number of observations in children exposed to cyclosporine in utero is available , up to an age of approximately 7 years .
Renal function and blood pressure in these children were normal .
Because of the possible disruption of maternal - fetal interaction , the risk / benefit ratio of using cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] in psoriasis patients during pregnancy should carefully be weighed with serious consideration for discontinuation of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
The alcohol content of the cyclosporine formulations should also be taken into account in pregnant women .
( See WARNINGS , Special Excipients ) Nursing Mothers Cyclosporine is present in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse drug reactions in nursing infants from cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] contains ethanol .
Ethanol will be present in human milk at levels similar to that found in maternal serum and if present in breast milk will be orally absorbed by a nursing infant .
( See WARNINGS ) Pediatric Use Although no adequate and well - controlled studies have been completed in children , transplant recipients as young as one year of age have received cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] with no unusual adverse effects .
The safety and efficacy of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] treatment in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis below the age of 18 have not been established .
Geriatric Use In rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials with cyclosporine , 17 . 5 % of patients were age 65 or older .
These patients were more likely to develop systolic hypertension on therapy , and more likely to show serum creatinine rises greater than or equal to 50 % above the baseline after 3 to 4 months of therapy .
Clinical studies of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] in transplant and psoriasis patients did not include a sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experiences have not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Kidney , Liver , and Heart Transplantation The principal adverse reactions of cyclosporine therapy are renal dysfunction , tremor , hirsutism , hypertension , and gum hyperplasia .
Hypertension Hypertension , which is usually mild to moderate , may occur in approximately 50 % of patients following renal transplantation and in most cardiac transplant patients .
Glomerular Capillary Thrombosis Glomerular capillary thrombosis has been found in patients treated with cyclosporine and may progress to graft failure .
The pathologic changes resembled those seen in the hemolytic - uremic syndrome and included thrombosis of the renal microvasculature , with platelet - fibrin thrombi occluding glomerular capillaries and afferent arterioles , microangiopathic hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , and decreased renal function .
Similar findings have been observed when other immunosuppressives have been employed post - transplantation .
Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia has been reported in some , but not all , patients exhibiting convulsions while on cyclosporine therapy .
Although magnesium depletion studies in normal subjects suggest that hypomagnesemia is associated with neurologic disorders , multiple factors , including hypertension , high dose methylprednisolone , hypocholesterolemia , and nephrotoxicity associated with high plasma concentrations of cyclosporine appear to be related to the neurological manifestations of cyclosporine toxicity .
Clinical Studies In controlled studies , the nature , severity , and incidence of the adverse events that were observed in 493 transplanted patients treated with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] were comparable with those observed in 208 transplanted patients who received Sandimmune ® null ( cyclosporine ) in these same studies when the dosage of the two drugs was adjusted to achieve the same cyclosporine blood trough concentrations .
Based on the historical experience with Sandimmune ® null , the following reactions occurred in 3 % or greater of 892 patients involved in clinical trials of kidney , heart , and liver transplants .
Randomized Kidney Patients Cyclosporine Patients ( Sandimmune ® null ) Body System Adverse Reactions Sandimmune ® null ( N = 227 ) % Azathioprine ( N = 228 ) % Kidney ( N = 705 ) % Heart ( N = 112 ) % Liver ( N = 75 ) % Genitourinary Renal Dysfunction 32 6 25 38 37 Cardiovascular Hypertension 26 18 13 53 27 Cramps 4 < 1 2 < 1 0 Skin Hirsutism 21 < 1 21 28 45 Acne 6 8 2 2 1 Central Nervous System Tremor 12 0 21 31 55 Convulsions 3 1 1 4 5 Headache 2 < 1 2 15 4 Gastrointestinal Gum Hyperplasia 4 0 9 5 16 Diarrhea 3 < 1 3 4 8 Nausea / Vomiting 2 < 1 4 10 4 Hepatotoxicity < 1 < 1 4 7 4 Abdominal Discomfort < 1 0 < 1 7 0 Autonomic Nervous System Paresthesia 3 0 1 2 1 Flushing < 1 0 4 0 4 Hematopoietic Leukopenia 2 19 < 1 6 0 Lymphoma < 1 0 1 6 1 Respiratory Sinusitis < 1 0 4 3 7 Miscellaneous Gynecomastia < 1 0 < 1 4 3 Among 705 kidney transplant patients treated with cyclosporine oral solution ( Sandimmune ® null ) in clinical trials , the reason for treatment discontinuation was renal toxicity in 5 . 4 % , infection in 0 . 9 % , lack of efficacy in 1 . 4 % , acute tubular necrosis in 1 % , lymphoproliferative disorders in 0 . 3 % , hypertension in 0 . 3 % , and other reasons in 0 . 7 % of the patients .
The following reactions occurred in 2 % or less of cyclosporine - treated patients : allergic reactions , anemia , anorexia , confusion , conjunctivitis , edema , fever , brittle fingernails , gastritis , hearing loss , hiccups , hyperglycemia , migraine ( cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] ) muscle pain , peptic ulcer , thrombocytopenia , tinnitus .
The following reactions occurred rarely : anxiety , chest pain , constipation , depression , hair breaking , hematuria , joint pain , lethargy , mouth sores , myocardial infarction , night sweats , pancreatitis , pruritus , swallowing difficulty , tingling , upper GI bleeding , visual disturbance , weakness , weight loss .
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapies , including cyclosporine and cyclosporine - containing regimens , are at increased risk of infections ( viral , bacterial , fungal , parasitic ) .
Both generalized and localized infections can occur .
Pre - existing infections may also be aggravated .
Fatal outcomes have been reported ( see Warnings ) .
Infectious Complication In Historical Randomized Studies In Renal Transplant Patients Using Sandimmune ® null Complication Cyclosporine Treatment ( N = 227 ) Azathioprine with Steroids [ 1 ] ( N = 228 ) % of Complications % of Complications Septicemia 5 . 3 4 . 8 Abscesses 4 . 4 5 . 3 Systemic Fungal Infection 2 . 2 3 . 9 Local Fungal Infection 7 . 5 9 . 6 Cytomegalovirus 4 . 8 12 . 3 Other Viral Infections 15 . 9 18 . 4 Urinary Tract Infections 21 . 1 20 . 2 Wound and Skin Infections 7 10 . 1 Pneumonia 6 . 2 9 . 2 [ 1 ] Some patients also received ALG .
Postmarketing Experience , Kidney , Liver and Heart Transplantation Hepatotoxicity Cases of hepatotoxicity and liver injury including cholestasis , jaundice , hepatitis and liver failure ; serious and / or fatal outcomes have been reported ( See WARNINGS / Hepatotoxicity ) .
Increased Risk of Infections Cases of JC virus - associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) , sometimes fatal ; and polyoma virus - associated nephropathy ( PVAN ) , especially BK virus resulting in graft loss have been reported .
( See WARNINGS / Polyoma Virus Infection ) Headache , including Migraine Cases of migraine have been reported .
In some cases , patients have been unable to continue cyclosporine , however , the final decision on treatment discontinuation should be made by the treating physician following the careful assessment of benefits versus risks .
Pain of lower extremities Isolated cases of pain of lower extremities have been reported in association with cyclosporine .
Pain of lower extremities has also been noted as part of Calcineurin - Inhibitor Induced Pain Syndrome ( CIPS ) as described in the literature .
Rheumatoid Arthritis The principal adverse reactions associated with the use of cyclosporine in rheumatoid arthritis are renal dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) , hypertension ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , headache , gastrointestinal disturbances , and hirsutism / hypertrichosis .
In rheumatoid arthritis patients treated in clinical trials within the recommended dose range , cyclosporine therapy was discontinued in 5 . 3 % of the patients because of hypertension and in 7 % of the patients because of increased creatinine .
These changes are usually reversible with timely dose decrease or drug discontinuation .
The frequency and severity of serum creatinine elevations increase with dose and duration of cyclosporine therapy .
These elevations are likely to become more pronounced without dose reduction or discontinuation .
The following adverse events occurred in controlled clinical trials : Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] / Sandimmune ® null ( cyclosporine ) Rheumatoid Arthritis Percentage of Patients with Adverse Events ≥ 3 % in any Cyclosporine Treated Group Studies 651 + 652 + 2008 Study 302 Study 654 Study 654 Study 302 Studies 651 + 652 + 2008 Body System Preferred Term Sandimmune ® null [ 1 ] ( N = 269 ) Sandimmune ® null ( N = 155 ) Methotrexate & Sandimmune ® null ( N = 74 ) Methotrexate & Placebo ( N = 73 ) Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] ( N = 143 ) Placebo ( N = 201 ) Autonomic Nervous System Disorders Flushing 2 % 2 % 3 % 0 % 5 % 2 % Body As A Whole — General Disorders Accidental Trauma 0 % 1 % 10 % 4 % 4 % 0 % Edema NOS [ 2 ] 5 % 14 % 12 % 4 % 10 % < 1 % Fatigue 6 % 3 % 8 % 12 % 3 % 7 % Fever 2 % 3 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 4 % Influenza - like symptoms < 1 % 6 % 1 % 0 % 3 % 2 % Pain 6 % 9 % 10 % 15 % 13 % 4 % Rigors 1 % 1 % 4 % 0 % 3 % 1 % Cardiovascular Disorders Arrhythmia 2 % 5 % 5 % 6 % 2 % 1 % Chest Pain 4 % 5 % 1 % 1 % 6 % 1 % Hypertension 8 % 26 % 16 % 12 % 25 % 2 % Central and Peripheral Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 8 % 6 % 7 % 3 % 8 % 3 % Headache 17 % 23 % 22 % 11 % 25 % 9 % Migraine 2 % 3 % 0 % 0 % 3 % 1 % Paresthesia 8 % 7 % 8 % 4 % 11 % 1 % Tremor 8 % 7 % 7 % 3 % 13 % 4 % Gastrointestinal System Disorders Abdominal Pain 15 % 15 % 15 % 7 % 15 % 10 % Anorexia 3 % 3 % 1 % 0 % 3 % 3 % Diarrhea 12 % 12 % 18 % 15 % 13 % 8 % Dyspepsia 12 % 12 % 10 % 8 % 8 % 4 % Flatulence 5 % 5 % 5 % 4 % 4 % 1 % Gastrointestinal Disorder NOS null 0 % 2 % 1 % 4 % 4 % 0 % Gingivitis 4 % 3 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 1 % Gum Hyperplasia 2 % 4 % 1 % 3 % 4 % 1 % Nausea 23 % 14 % 24 % 15 % 18 % 14 % Rectal Hemorrhage 0 % 3 % 0 % 0 % 1 % 1 % Stomatitis 7 % 5 % 16 % 12 % 6 % 8 % Vomiting 9 % 8 % 14 % 7 % 6 % 5 % Hearing and Vestibular Disorders Ear Disorder NOS null 0 % 5 % 0 % 0 % 1 % 0 % Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Hypomagnesemia 0 % 4 % 0 % 0 % 6 % 0 % Musculoskeletal System Disorders Arthropathy 0 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 4 % 0 % Leg Cramps / Involuntary Muscle Contractions 2 % 11 % 11 % 3 % 12 % 1 % Psychiatric Disorders Depression 3 % 6 % 3 % 1 % 1 % 2 % Insomnia 4 % 1 % 1 % 0 % 3 % 2 % Renal Creatinine elevations ≥ 30 % 43 % 39 % 55 % 19 % 48 % 13 % Creatinine elevations ≥ 50 % 24 % 18 % 26 % 8 % 18 % 3 % Reproductive Disorders , Female Leukorrhea 1 % 0 % 4 % 0 % 1 % 0 % Menstrual Disorder 3 % 2 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 1 % Respiratory System Disorders Bronchitis 1 % 3 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 3 % Coughing 5 % 3 % 5 % 7 % 4 % 4 % Dyspnea 5 % 1 % 3 % 3 % 1 % 2 % Infection NOS null 9 % 5 % 0 % 7 % 3 % 10 % Pharyngitis 3 % 5 % 5 % 6 % 4 % 4 % Pneumonia 1 % 0 % 4 % 0 % 1 % 1 % Rhinitis 0 % 3 % 11 % 10 % 1 % 0 % Sinusitis 4 % 4 % 8 % 4 % 3 % 3 % Upper Respiratory Tract 0 % 14 % 23 % 15 % 13 % 0 % Skin and Appendages Disorders Alopecia 3 % 0 % 1 % 1 % 4 % 4 % Bullous Eruption 1 % 0 % 4 % 1 % 1 % 1 % Hypertrichosis 19 % 17 % 12 % 0 % 15 % 3 % Rash 7 % 12 % 10 % 7 % 8 % 10 % Skin Ulceration 1 % 1 % 3 % 4 % 0 % 2 % Urinary System Disorders Dysuria 0 % 0 % 11 % 3 % 1 % 2 % Micturition Frequency 2 % 4 % 3 % 1 % 2 % 2 % NPN , Increased 0 % 19 % 12 % 0 % 18 % 0 % Urinary Tract Infection 0 % 3 % 5 % 4 % 3 % 0 % Vascular ( Extracardiac ) Disorders Purpura 3 % 4 % 1 % 1 % 2 % 0 % [ 1 ] Includes patients in 2 . 5 mg / kg / day dose group only .
[ 2 ] NOS = Not Otherwise Specified .
In addition , the following adverse events have been reported in 1 % to < 3 % of the rheumatoid arthritis patients in the cyclosporine treatment group in controlled clinical trials .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , increased sweating Body as a Whole : allergy , asthenia , hot flushes , malaise , overdose , procedure NOS [ 1 ] , tumor NOS null , weight decrease , weight increase Cardiovascular : abnormal heart sounds , cardiac failure , myocardial infarction , peripheral ischemia Central and Peripheral Nervous System : hypoesthesia , neuropathy , vertigo Endocrine : goiter Gastrointestinal : constipation , dysphagia , enanthema , eructation , esophagitis , gastric ulcer , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gingival bleeding , glossitis , peptic ulcer , salivary gland enlargement , tongue disorder , tooth disorder Infection : abscess , bacterial infection , cellulitis , folliculitis , fungal infection , herpes simplex , herpes zoster , renal abscess , moniliasis , tonsillitis , viral infection Hematologic : anemia , epistaxis , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy Liver and Biliary System : bilirubinemia Metabolic and Nutritional : diabetes mellitus , hyperkalemia , hyperuricemia , hypoglycemia Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , bone fracture , bursitis , joint dislocation , myalgia , stiffness , synovial cyst , tendon disorder Neoplasms : breast fibroadenosis , carcinoma Psychiatric : anxiety , confusion , decreased libido , emotional lability , impaired concentration , increased libido , nervousness , paroniria , somnolence Reproductive ( Female ) : breast pain , uterine hemorrhage Respiratory System : abnormal chest sounds , bronchospasm Skin and Appendages : abnormal pigmentation , angioedema , dermatitis , dry skin , eczema , nail disorder , pruritus , skin disorder , urticaria Special Senses : abnormal vision , cataract , conjunctivitis , deafness , eye pain , taste perversion , tinnitus , vestibular disorder Urinary System : abnormal urine , hematuria , increased BUN , micturition urgency , nocturia , polyuria , pyelonephritis , urinary incontinence [ 1 ] NOS = Not Otherwise Specified Psoriasis The principal adverse reactions associated with the use of cyclosporine in patients with psoriasis are renal dysfunction , headache , hypertension , hypertriglyceridemia , hirsutism / hypertrichosis , paresthesia or hyperesthesia , influenza - like symptoms , nausea / vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal discomfort , lethargy , and musculoskeletal or joint pain .
In psoriasis patients treated in U . S . controlled clinical studies within the recommended dose range , cyclosporine therapy was discontinued in 1 % of the patients because of hypertension and in 5 . 4 % of the patients because of increased creatinine .
In the majority of cases , these changes were reversible after dose reduction or discontinuation of cyclosporine .
There has been one reported death associated with the use of cyclosporine in psoriasis .
A 27 - year - old male developed renal deterioration and was continued on cyclosporine .
He had progressive renal failure leading to death .
Frequency and severity of serum creatinine increases with dose and duration of cyclosporine therapy .
These elevations are likely to become more pronounced and may result in irreversible renal damage without dose reduction or discontinuation .
Adverse Events Occurring in 3 % or More of Psoriasis Patients in Controlled Clinical TrialsBody System [ 1 ] Preferred Term Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] ( N = 182 ) Sandimmune ® null ( N = 185 ) Infection or Potential Infection 24 . 7 % 24 . 3 % Influenza - like Symptoms 9 . 9 % 8 . 1 % Upper Respiratory Tract Infections 7 . 7 % 11 . 3 % Cardiovascular System 28 % 25 . 4 % Hypertension [ 2 ] 27 . 5 % 25 . 4 % Urinary System 24 . 2 % 16 . 2 % Increased Creatinine 19 . 8 % 15 . 7 % Central and Peripheral Nervous System 26 . 4 % 20 . 5 % Headache 15 . 9 % 14 % Paresthesia 7 . 1 % 4 . 8 % Musculoskeletal System 13 . 2 % 8 . 7 % Arthralgia 6 % 1 . 1 % Body as a Whole — General 29 . 1 % 22 . 2 % Pain 4 . 4 % 3 . 2 % Metabolic and Nutritional 9 . 3 % 9 . 7 % Reproductive , Female 8 . 5 % ( 4 of 47 females ) 11 . 5 % ( 6 of 52 females ) Resistance Mechanism 18 . 7 % 21 . 1 % Skin and Appendages 17 . 6 % 15 . 1 % Hypertrichosis 6 . 6 % 5 . 4 % Respiratory System 5 % 6 . 5 % Bronchospasm , Coughing , Dyspnea , Rhinitis 5 % 4 . 9 % Psychiatric 5 % 3 . 8 % Gastrointestinal System 19 . 8 % 28 . 7 % Abdominal Pain 2 . 7 % 6 % Diarrhea 5 % 5 . 9 % Dyspepsia 2 . 2 % 3 . 2 % Gum Hyperplasia 3 . 8 % 6 % Nausea 5 . 5 % 5 . 9 % White cell and RES 4 . 4 % 2 . 7 % [ 1 ] Total percentage of events within the system [ 2 ] Newly occurring hypertension = SBP ≥ 160 mm Hg and / or DBP ≥ 90 mm Hg The following events occurred in 1 % to less than 3 % of psoriasis patients treated with cyclosporine : Body as a Whole : fever , flushes , hot flushes Cardiovascular : chest pain Central and Peripheral Nervous System : appetite increased , insomnia , dizziness , nervousness , vertigo Gastrointestinal : abdominal distention , constipation , gingival bleeding Liver and Biliary System : hyperbilirubinemia Neoplasms : skin malignancies [ squamous cell ( 0 . 9 % ) and basal cell ( 0 . 4 % ) carcinomas ] Reticuloendothelial : platelet , bleeding , and clotting disorders , red blood cell disorder Respiratory : infection , viral and other infection Skin and Appendages : acne , folliculitis , keratosis , pruritus , rash , dry skin Urinary System : micturition frequency Vision : abnormal vision Mild hypomagnesemia and hyperkalemia may occur but are asymptomatic .
Increases in uric acid may occur and attacks of gout have been rarely reported .
A minor and dose related hyperbilirubinemia has been observed in the absence of hepatocellular damage .
Cyclosporine therapy may be associated with a modest increase of serum triglycerides or cholesterol .
Elevations of triglycerides ( > 750 mg / dL ) occur in about 15 % of psoriasis patients ; elevations of cholesterol ( > 300 mg / dL ) are observed in less than 3 % of psoriasis patients .
Generally these laboratory abnormalities are reversible upon dose reduction or discontinuation of cyclosporine .
Postmarketing Experience , Psoriasis Cases of transformation to erythrodermic psoriasis or generalized pustular psoriasis upon either withdrawal or reduction of cyclosporine in patients with chronic plaque psoriasis have been reported .
To report SUSPECTEDADVERSE EVENTS , contact Mayne Pharma at 1 - 844 - 825 - 8500 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / / for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE There is a minimal experience with cyclosporine overdosage .
Forced emesis can be of value up to 2 hours after administration of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
Transient hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity may occur which should resolve following drug withdrawal .
Oral doses of cyclosporine up to 10 g ( about 150 mg / kg ) have been tolerated with relatively minor clinical consequences , such as vomiting , drowsiness , headache , tachycardia and , in a few patients , moderately severe , reversible impairment of renal function .
However , serious symptoms of intoxication have been reported following accidental parenteral overdosage with cyclosporine in premature neonates .
General supportive measures and symptomatic treatment should be followed in all cases of overdosage .
Cyclosporine is not dialyzable to any great extent , nor is it cleared well by charcoal hemoperfusion .
The oral dosage at which half of experimental animals are estimated to die is 31 times , 39 times , and > 54 times the human maintenance dose for transplant patients ( 6 mg / kg ; corrections based on body surface area ) in mice , rats , and rabbits .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cyclosporine Capsules   [ Modified ] ( Soft Gelatin ) and CYCLOSPORINE ORAL SOLUTION [ MODIFIED ] Cyclosporine capsules [ MODIFIED ] and cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] have increased bioavailability in comparison to Sandimmune ® null   ( cyclosporine capsules and cyclosporine oral solution ) .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] and Sandimmune ® null are not bioequivalent and cannot be used interchangeably without physician supervision .
The daily dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should always be given in two divided doses ( b . i . d . ) .
It is recommended that cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] be administered on a consistent schedule with regard to time of day and relation to meals .
Grapefruit and grapefruit juice affect metabolism , increasing blood concentration of cyclosporine , thus should be avoided .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment in Kidney , Liver and Heart Transplantation Cyclosporine undergoes minimal renal elimination and its pharmacokinetics do not appear to be significantly altered in patients with end - stage renal disease who receive routine hemodialysis treatments ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
However , due to its nephrotoxic potential ( See WARNINGS ) , careful monitoring of renal function is recommended ; cyclosporine dosage should be reduced if indicated .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) Renal Impairment in Rheumatoid Arthritis and Psoriasis Patients with impaired renal function should not receive cyclosporine .
( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) Hepatic Impairment The clearance of cyclosporine may be significantly reduced in severe liver disease patients ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment to maintain blood concentrations within the recommended target range .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) Newly Transplanted Patients The initial oral dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] can be given 4 to 12 hours prior to transplantation or be given postoperatively .
The initial dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] varies depending on the transplanted organ and the other immunosuppressive agents included in the immunosuppressive protocol .
In newly transplanted patients , the initial oral dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is the same as the initial oral dose of Sandimmune ® null .
Suggested initial doses are available from the results of a 1994 survey of the use of Sandimmune ® null in U . S . transplant centers .
The mean ± SD initial doses were 9 ± 3 mg / kg / day for renal transplant patients ( 75 centers ) , 8 ± 4 mg / kg / day for liver transplant patients ( 30 centers ) , and 7 ± 3 mg / kg / day for heart transplant patients ( 24 centers ) .
Total daily doses were divided into two equal daily doses .
The cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] dose is subsequently adjusted to achieve a pre - defined cyclosporine blood concentration .
( See Blood Concentration Monitoring in Transplant Patients , below ) If cyclosporine trough blood concentrations are used , the target range is the same for cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] as for Sandimmune ® null .
Using the same trough concentration target range for cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] as for Sandimmune ® null results in greater cyclosporine exposure when cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is administered .
( See Pharmacokinetics , Absorption ) Dosing should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability .
Lower cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] doses may be sufficient as maintenance therapy .
Adjunct therapy with adrenal corticosteroids is recommended initially .
Different tapering dosage schedules of prednisone appear to achieve similar results .
A representative dosage schedule based on the patient ' s weight started with 2 mg / kg / day for the first 4 days tapered to 1 mg / kg / day by 1 week , 0 . 6 mg / kg / day by 2 weeks , 0 . 3 mg / kg / day by 1 month , and 0 . 15 mg / kg / day by 2 months and thereafter as a maintenance dose .
Steroid doses may be further tapered on an individualized basis depending on status of patient and function of graft .
Adjustments in dosage of prednisone must be made according to the clinical situation .
Conversion from Sandimmune ® null ( cyclosporine to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] in Transplant Patients In transplanted patients who are considered for conversion to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] from Sandimmune ® null , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be started with the same daily dose as was previously used with Sandimmune ® null ( 1 : 1 dose conversion ) .
The cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] dose should subsequently be adjusted to attain the pre - conversion cyclosporine blood trough concentration .
Using the same trough concentration target range for cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] as for Sandimmune ® null results in greater cyclosporine exposure when cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is administered .
( See Pharmacokinetics , Absorption ) Patients with suspected poor absorption of Sandimmune ® null require different dosing strategies .
( See Transplant Patients with Poor Absorption of Sandimmune ® null ) .
In some patients , the increase in blood trough concentration is more pronounced and may be of clinical significance .
Until the blood trough concentration attains the pre - conversion value , it is strongly recommended that the cyclosporine blood trough concentration be monitored every 4 to 7 days after conversion to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] .
In addition , clinical safety parameters such as serum creatinine and blood pressure should be monitored every two weeks during the first two months after conversion .
If the blood trough concentrations are outside the desired range and / or if the clinical safety parameters worsen , the dosage of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] must be adjusted accordingly .
Transplant Patients with Poor Absorption of Sandimmune ® null Patients with lower than expected cyclosporine blood trough concentrations in relation to the oral dose of Sandimmune ® null may have poor or inconsistent absorption of cyclosporine from Sandimmune ® null .
After conversion to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , patients tend to have higher cyclosporine concentrations .
Due to the increase in bioavailability of cyclosporine following conversion to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] , the cyclosporine blood trough concentration may exceed the target range .
Particular caution should be exercised when converting patients to cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] at doses greater than 10 mg / kg / day .
The dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be titrated individually based on cyclosporine trough concentrations , tolerability , and clinical response .
In this population the cyclosporine blood trough concentration should be measured more frequently , at least twice a week ( daily , if initial dose exceeds 10 mg / kg / day ) until the concentration stabilizes within the desired range .
Rheumatoid Arthritis The initial dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is 2 . 5 mg / kg / day , taken twice daily as a divided ( b . i . d . ) oral dose .
Salicylates , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents , and oral corticosteroids may be continued .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) Onset of action generally occurs between 4 and 8 weeks .
If insufficient clinical benefit is seen and tolerability is good ( including serum creatinine less than 30 % above baseline ) , the dose may be increased by 0 . 5 to 0 . 75 mg / kg / day after 8 weeks and again after 12 weeks to a maximum of 4 mg / kg / day .
If no benefit is seen by 16 weeks of therapy , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] therapy should be discontinued .
Dose decreases by 25 % to 50 % should be made at any time to control adverse events , e . g . , hypertension , elevations in serum creatinine ( 30 % above patient ' s pretreatment level ) or clinically significant laboratory abnormalities .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) If dose reduction is not effective in controlling abnormalities or if the adverse event or abnormality is severe , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be discontinued .
The same initial dose and dosage range should be used if cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] is combined with the recommended dose of methotrexate .
Most patients can be treated with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] doses of 3 mg / kg / day or below when combined with methotrexate doses of up to 15 mg / week .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Trials ) There is limited long - term treatment data .
Recurrence of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity is generally apparent within 4 weeks after stopping cyclosporine .
Psoriasis The initial dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be 2 . 5 mg / kg / day .
Cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be taken twice daily , as a divided ( 1 . 25 mg / kg b . i . d . ) oral dose .
Patients should be kept at that dose for at least 4 weeks , barring adverse events .
If significant clinical improvement has not occurred in patients by that time , the patient ' s dosage should be increased at 2 week intervals .
Based on patient response , dose increases of approximately 0 . 5 mg / kg / day should be made to a maximum of 4 mg / kg / day .
Dose decreases by 25 % to 50 % should be made at any time to control adverse events , e . g . , hypertension , elevations in serum creatinine ( ≥ 25 % above the patient ' s pretreatment level ) , or clinically significant laboratory abnormalities .
If dose reduction is not effective in controlling abnormalities , or if the adverse event or abnormality is severe , cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be discontinued .
( See Special Monitoring of Psoriasis Patients ) Patients generally show some improvement in the clinical manifestations of psoriasis in 2 - weeks .
Satisfactory control and stabilization of the disease may take 12 to 16 weeks to achieve .
Results of a dose - titration clinical trial with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] indicate that an improvement of psoriasis by 75 % or more ( based on PASI ) was achieved in 51 % of the patients after 8 weeks and in 79 % of the patients after 16 weeks .
Treatment should be discontinued if satisfactory response cannot be achieved after 6 weeks at 4 mg / kg / day or the patient ' s maximum tolerated dose .
Once a patient is adequately controlled and appears stable the dose of cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] should be lowered , and the patient treated with the lowest dose that maintains an adequate response ( this should not necessarily be total clearing of the patient ) .
In clinical trials , cyclosporine doses at the lower end of the recommended dosage range were effective in maintaining a satisfactory response in 60 % of the patients .
Doses below 2 . 5 mg / kg / day may also be equally effective .
Upon stopping treatment with cyclosporine , relapse will occur in approximately 6 weeks ( 50 % of the patients ) to 16 weeks ( 75 % of the patients ) .
In the majority of patients rebound does not occur after cessation of treatment with cyclosporine .
Thirteen cases of transformation of chronic plaque psoriasis to more severe forms of psoriasis have been reported .
There were 9 cases of pustular and 4 cases of erythrodermic psoriasis .
Long - term experience with cyclosporine [ MODIFIED ] in psoriasis patients is limited and continuous treatment for extended periods greater than one year is not recommended .
Alternation with other forms of treatment should be considered in the long - term management of patients with this life - long disease .
Cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] Recommendations for Administration To make cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] more palatable , it should be diluted , with orange or apple juice that is at room temperature .
Patients should avoid switching diluents frequently .
Grapefruit juice affects metabolism of cyclosporine and should be avoided .
The combination of cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] with milk can be unpalatable .
The effect of milk on the bioavailability of cyclosporine when administered as cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] has not been evaluated .
Take the prescribed amount of cyclosporine oral solution [ MODIFIED ] from the container using the dosing syringe supplied , after removal of the protective cover , and transfer the solution to a glass of orange or apple juice .
Stir well and drink at once .
Do not allow diluted oral solution to stand before drinking .
Use a glass container ( not plastic ) .
Rinse the glass with more diluent to ensure that the total dose is consumed .
After use , dry the outside of the dosing syringe with a clean towel and replace the protective cover .
Do not rinse the dosing syringe with water or other cleaning agents .
If the syringe requires cleaning , it must be completely dry before resuming use .
Blood Concentration Monitoring in Transplant Patients Transplant centers have found blood concentration monitoring of cyclosporine to be an essential component of patient management .
Of importance to blood concentration analysis are the type of assay used , the transplanted organ , and other immunosuppressant agents being administered .
While no fixed relationship has been established , blood concentration monitoring may assist in the clinical evaluation of rejection and toxicity , dose adjustments , and the assessment of compliance .
Various assays have been used to measure blood concentrations of cyclosporine .
Older studies using a nonspecific assay often cited concentrations that were roughly twice those of the specific assays .
Therefore , comparison between concentrations in the published literature and an individual patient concentration using current assays must be made with detailed knowledge of the assay methods employed .
Current assay results are also not interchangeable and their use should be guided by their approved labeling .
A discussion of the different assay methods is contained in Annals of Clinical Biochemistry 1994 ; 31 : 420 - 446 .
While several assays and assay matrices are available , there is a consensus that parent - compound - specific assays correlate best with clinical events .
Of these , HPLC is the standard reference , but the monoclonal antibody RIAs and the monoclonal antibody FPIA offer sensitivity , reproducibility , and convenience .
Most clinicians base their monitoring on trough cyclosporine concentrations .
Applied Pharmacokinetics , Principles of Therapeutic Drug Monitoring ( 1992 ) contains a broad discussion of cyclosporine pharmacokinetics and drug monitoring techniques .
Blood concentration monitoring is not a replacement for renal function monitoring or tissue biopsies .
HOW SUPPLIED Cyclosporine Capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] 25 mg — Off - white , oval , soft gelatin capsules .
Imprinted in red : PA09 Packages of 30 unit - dose blisters .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] 100 mg — Off - white , oblong , soft gelatin capsules .
Imprinted in red : PA20 Packages of 30 unit - dose blisters .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Cyclosporine Oral Solution , USP [ MODIFIED ] A light yellow liquid supplied in 50 mL bottles containing 100 mg / mL and a 4 mL dosing syringe with case .
Store and Dispense In the original container at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not store in the refrigerator .
Once opened , the contents must be used within two months .
At temperatures below 68 ° F ( 20 ° C ) the solution may gel ; light flocculation or the formation of a light sediment or flakes may also form .
Allow contents to reach room temperature to reverse these effects .
There is no impact on product performance or dose .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Greenville , NC 27834 Revised : March 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg Capsule Blister Pack Box NDC 51862 - 458 - 47 CycloSPORINE Capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] 25 mg WARNING : CycloSPORINE capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] is NOT BIOEQUIVALENT to Sandimmune ® * ( CycloSPORINE capsules , USP [ NON - MODIFIED ] ) .
Do NOT use interchangeably without a physician ' s supervision .
* Sandimmune ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
Rx Only 30 Soft Gelatin Capsules mayne pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Capsule Blister Pack Box NDC 51862 - 460 - 47 CycloSPORINE Capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] 100 mg WARNING : CycloSPORINE capsules , USP [ MODIFIED ] is NOT BIOEQUIVALENT to Sandimmune ® * ( CycloSPORINE capsules , USP [ NON - MODIFIED ] ) .
Do NOT use interchangeably without a physician ' s supervision .
* Sandimmune ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
Rx Only 30 Soft Gelatin Capsules mayne pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
