Contraindications ( 4 ) 08 / 2019 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 7 ) 08 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated as a source of water , electrolytes and calories .
2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated as a source of water , electrolytes and calories .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Only for intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration , dosing considerations and instructions for use .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is only for intravenous infusion .
• The osmolarity of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , is 280 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Peripheral administration is generally acceptable ; however ; consider central vein administration if there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain .
• Do not administer 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection simultaneously with blood products through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseudoagglutination or hemolysis .
• To prevent air embolism , use a non - vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set , avoid multiple connections , do not connect flexible containers in series , fully evacuate residual gas in the container prior to administration , do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates , and if administration is controlled by a pumping device , turn off pump before the container runs dry .
• Prior to infusion , visually inspect the solution for particulate matter .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
• Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of parenteral solutions , where possible .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The choice of the specific , sodium chloride , and dextrose concentrations , rate and volume depends on the age , weight , clinical and metabolic conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy .
Electrolyte supplementation may be indicated according to the clinical needs of the patient .
The administration rate should be governed , especially for premature infants with low birth weight , during the first few days of therapy , by the patient ' s tolerance to dextrose .
Increase the infusion rate gradually as indicated by frequent monitoring of blood glucose concentrations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use • Check flexible container solution composition , lot number , and expiry date .
• Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
• Use sterile equipment and aseptic technique .
Flexible Plastic Container ( freeflex ® bag ) To Open • Turn solution container over so that the text is face down .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove solution container .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , or if the seal is not intact , discard the solution .
• Check to ensure the solution is clear and there are no precipitates .
Discard if there is a color change and / or the appearance of precipitates .
Preparation for Administration • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port .
• Insert spike through BLUE Infusion Port by rotating wrist slightly until the spike is inserted . NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
• Suspend solution container from hanger hole .
To Add Medication • Additives may be incompatible .
Complete information is not available .
Do not use additives known or determined to be incompatible .
• Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the healthcare provider , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
• When introducing additives , consult the instructions for use of the medication to be added and other relevant literature .
• Before adding a substance or medication , verify that it is soluble and / or stable in this drug product and that the pH range of this drug product is appropriate .
To Add Medication Prior to Solution Administration • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Prepare medication site • Insert an 18 to 23 gauge needle horizontally through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix container contents thoroughly . For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
• After addition , check to ensure the solution is clear and there are no precipitates .
Discard if there is a color change and / or the appearance of precipitates .
To Add Medication During Solution Administration • Close the clamp on the set • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container • Immediately before injecting additives , if the Cap has not been broken off , break off WHITE Additive Port cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Prepare medication site .
• Using a syringe with an 18 to 23 gauge needle , horizontally insert through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
• After addition , check to ensure the solution is clear and there are no precipitates .
Discard if there is a color change and / or the appearance of precipitates .
• Using aseptic technique , repeat steps 4 - 7 as necessary .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
Storage • Use promptly ; do not store solutions containing additives .
• Single - dose container .
• Discard any unused portion .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a clear solution in 1000 mL single dose , flexible containers .
2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a clear solution in 1000 mL single dose , flexible containers .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • known hypersensitivity to dextrose and / or sodium chloride [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 1 ) ] • clinically significant hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose , or sodium chloride ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Clinically significant hyperglycemia ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Monitor for signs and symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hyperosmolar Hyper glycemic State : Monitor blood glucose and administer insulin as needed .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) • Hyponatremia , Hypokalemia , Hypernatremia and Hyperchloremia : Avoid in patients with or at risk for hypo - / hypernatremia and hypokalemia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium and potassium concentrations .
( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 8 . 4 ) • Fluid Overload : Avoid in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor daily fluid balance and electrolyte , concentrations and acid - base balance , as needed and especially during prolonged use .
( 5 . 6 ) • Refeeding Syndrome : Monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase nutrient intake .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported with 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or infusion reaction develops [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia and Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State The use of dextrose infusions in patients with impaired glucose tolerance may worsen hyperglycemia .
Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient ' s utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia , coma , and death .
Hyperglycemia is associated with an increase in serum osmolality , resulting in osmotic diuresis , dehydration and electrolyte losses .
Patients with underlying central nervous system disease and renal impairment who receive dextrose infusions , may be at greater risk of developing hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state .
Monitor blood glucose concentrations and treat hyperglycemia to maintain concentrations within normal limits while administering 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose concentrations .
5 . 3 Hyponatremia 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a hypertonic solution [ see Description , Table 1 ( 11 ) ] .
In the body , however , glucose containing fluids can become extremely physiologically hypotonic due to rapid glucose metabolization .
Monitoring of serum sodium is particularly important for hypotonic fluids .
Depending on the tonicity of the solution , the volume and rate of infusion , and depending on a patient ' s underlying clinical condition and capability to metabolize glucose , intravenous administration of glucose can cause electrolyte disturbances , most importantly hypo - or hyperosmotic hyponatremia .
The risk for hyponatremia is increased , in pediatric patients , elderly patients , postoperative patients , those with psychogenic polydipsia and in patients treated with medications that increase the risk of hyponatremia ( such as certain diuretic , antiepileptic and psychotropic medications ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Acute hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
Patients at increased risk for developing complications of hyponatremia , such as hyponatremic encephalopathy include pediatric patients ; women , in particular , premenopausal women ; patients with hypoxemia ; and in patients with underlying central nervous system disease [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
Avoid 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications such as osmotic demyelination syndrome with risk of seizures and cerebral edema .
To avoid complications , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
High volume infusion must be used with close monitoring in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) , due to the risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia .
5 . 4 Hypokalemia Excessive administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection may result in significant hypokalemia .
Hypokalemic periodic paralysis , metabolic alkalosis , increased gastrointestinal losses ( e . g . diarrhea , vomiting ) , prolonged low potassium diet , or primary hyperaldosteronism may increase the risk of hypokalemia .
Avoid the administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection in patients with or at risk of hypokalemia or taking medications that may increase the risk .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum potassium levels .
5 . 5 Hypernatremia and Hyperchloremia Electrolyte imbalances such as hypernatremia and hyperchloremia , leading to metabolic acidosis may occur with solutions containing 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
Conditions that may increase the risk of hypernatremia , fluid overload and edema ( central and peripheral ) , include patients with pre - eclampsia , primary hyperaldosteronism and secondary hyperaldosteronism associated with , for example , hypertension , congestive heart failure , severe renal impairment , liver disease ( including cirrhosis ) , and renal disease ( including renal artery stenosis , nephrosclerosis ) .
Medications such as corticosteroids or corticotropin , may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention .
Avoid in patients with or at risk for hypernatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hypernatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Excessively rapid correction of hypernatremia is also associated with a risk for serious neurologic complications such as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) with risk of seizures and cerebral edema .
5 . 6 Fluid Overload Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , the patient ' s underlying clinical condition and capability to metabolize dextrose , intravenous administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Avoid 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance as needed and especially during prolonged use .
5 . 7 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients may result in the refeeding syndrome that is characterized by the shift of potassium , phosphorus , and magnesium intracellularly as the patient becomes anabolic .
Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop .
To prevent these complications , monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increasing nutrient intake .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection were identified in postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions : anaphylaxis , rash and pruritus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , hyponatremia and hyponatremic encephalopathy , for solutions containing less than 0 . 9 % sodium chloride [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypernatremia and hyperchloremia acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] have been observed in solutions containing 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
• Infusion and / or Injection Site Reactions : phlebitis , injection site vesicles , infusion site pain , chills and pyrexia .
Adverse reactions include electrolyte imbalances , hyperglycemia , and hypervolemia and injection site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control , Vasopressin or Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance : Monitor blood glucose concentrations , fluid balance serum electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance .
( 7 . 1 ) • Lithium : Decreased lithium concentrations with concomitant use ; monitor serum lithium concentrations .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control , Vasopressin or Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection can affect glycemic control , vasopressin and fluid and / or electrolyte balance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
Monitor blood glucose concentrations , fluid balance , serum electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance when using 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection in patients treated with other substances that affect glycemic control , vasopressin or fluid and / or electrolyte balance .
7 . 2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection resulting in decreased serum lithium concentrations .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Appropriate administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection during pregnancy is not expected to cause adverse developmental outcomes , including congenital malformations .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Sodium is present in human breast milk .
There are no data on the effects of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection on a breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety profile of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection in pediatric patients is similar to adults .
Neonates , especially premature infants with low birth weight , are at increased risk of developing hypo - or hyperglycemia and therefore need close monitoring during treatment with intravenous glucose solutions to ensure adequate glycemic control in order to avoid potential long - term adverse effects .
Closely monitor plasma electrolyte concentrations in pediatric patients who may have impaired ability to regulate fluids and electrolytes .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection may result in increased serum osmolality and risk of intracerebral hemorrhage .
Children ( including neonates and older children ) are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Elderly patients are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this product may be greater in patients with impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection in patients with renal impairment may result in hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state , hyponatremia , and / or fluid overload .
Monitor patients with renal impairment for development of these adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection can cause : Electrolyte and Fluid Disorders • Hyperglycemia , hyperosmolality , and adverse effects on water and electrolyte balance , and corresponding complications , which can be fatal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Hyponatremia , manifestations may include seizures , coma , cerebral edema and death ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Hypernatremia , especially in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Fluid overload ( which can lead to central and / or peripheral edema ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
When assessing an overdose , any additives in the solution must also be considered .
Clinically significant overdose of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection may , therefore , constitute a medical emergency .
The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment .
Interventions include discontinuation of the infusion , dose reduction , monitoring of fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance and institution of appropriate corrective measures such as administration of exogenous insulin .
11 DESCRIPTION 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment and caloric supply in single - dose containers for intravenous administration .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
Composition , osmolarity , pH , ionic concentration and caloric content are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
* Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Size ( mL ) Composition ( g / L ) * Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( calc . )
pH Ionic Concentration ( mEq / L ) Caloric Content ( kcal / L ) ** Dextrose Hydrous , USP Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) Sodium Chloride 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 1 , 000 25 4 . 5 280 4 . 5 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) 77 77 85 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dextrose is derived from corn .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the flexible container can leach out certain of the container ' s chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period .
The suitability of the container material has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a source of water , electrolytes and calories .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride is a clear solution in 1000 mL single - dose , flexible containers available as follows : Product Name Size ( mL ) Number per Carton NDC Product Code 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 1 , 000 10 63323 - 874 - 10 874010 Storage : Avoid excessive heat .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; brief exposure up to 40 ° C / 104 ° F does not adversely affect the product .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers or home healthcare providers of the following risks of 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection : • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypernatremia and hyperchloremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Fluid overload [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 Made in Germany 451655 A www . fresenius - kabi . com / us Revised : April 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Bag Label NDC 63323 - 874 - 10 freeflex ® 1000 mL 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP For intravenous use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Case Label NDC 63323 - 874 - 10 874010 2 . 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 1000 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
