Tretinoin Tretinoin Gel , USP Tretinoin Cream , USP Rx only For External Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
Prescribing Information Description Tretinoin Gel , USP and Tretinoin Cream , USP are used for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
Each gram of tretinoin gel contains tretinoin in either of two strengths , 0 . 025 % ( 0 . 25 mg ) or 0 . 01 % ( 0 . 1 mg ) in a gel vehicle of hydroxypropyl cellulose , butylated hydroxytoluene , and alcohol ( denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and brucine sulfate ) 90 % w / w .
Each gram of tretinoin cream contains tretinoin in either of three strengths , 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) , 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 5 mg ) , or 0 . 025 % ( 0 . 25 mg ) in a hydrophilic cream vehicle of : stearic acid , isopropyl myristate , polyoxyl 40 stearate , stearyl alcohol , xanthan gum , sorbic acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , and purified water .
Chemically , tretinoin is all - trans - retinoic acid .
It has a molecular weight of 300 . 44 and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Although the exact mode of action of tretinoin is unknown , current evidence suggests that topical tretinoin decreases cohesiveness of follicular epithelial cells with decreased microcomedo formation .
Additionally , tretinoin stimulates mitotic activity and increased turnover of follicular epithelial cells causing extrusion of the comedones .
Indications and Usage Tretinoin gel and cream are indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
The safety and efficacy of the long - term use of this product in the treatment of other disorders have not been established .
Contraindications Use of the product should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is noted .
Warnings GELS ARE FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME OR SMOKING DURING USE .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep tube tightly closed .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Precautions General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation occurs , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of tretinoin , and patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered because of heightened susceptibility to sunlight as a result of the use of tretinoin .
Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with tretinoin .
Tretinoin preparations for acne treatment should be kept away from the eyes , the mouth , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
Topical use may induce severe local erythema and peeling at the site of application .
If the degree of local irritation warrants , patients should be directed to use the medication less frequently , discontinue use temporarily , or discontinue use altogether .
Tretinoin has been reported to cause severe irritation on eczematous skin and should be used with utmost caution in patients with this condition .
Drug Interactions Concomitant topical medication , medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices or lime should be used with caution because of possible interaction with tretinoin .
Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid with tretinoin .
It also is advisable to " rest " a patient ' s skin until the effects of such preparations subside before use of tretinoin is begun .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment to Fertility In a 91 - week dermal study in which CD - 1 mice were administered 0 . 017 % and 0 . 035 % formulations of tretinoin , cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas and papillomas in the treatment area were observed in some female mice .
A dose - related incidence of liver tumors in male mice was observed at those same doses .
The maximum systemic doses associated with the administered 0 . 017 % and 0 . 035 % formulations are 0 . 5 and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are two and four times the maximum human systemic dose , when adjusted for total body surface area .
The biological significance of these findings is not clear because they occurred at doses that exceeded the dermal maximally tolerated dose ( MTD ) of tretinoin and because they were within the background natural occurrence rate for these tumors in this strain of mice .
There was no evidence of carcinogenic potential when 0 . 025 mg / kg / day of tretinoin was administered topically to mice ( 0 . 1 times the maximum human systemic dose , adjusted for total body surface area ) .
For purposes of comparisons of the animal exposure to systemic human exposure , the maximum human systemic dose is defined as 1 gram of 0 . 1 % tretinoin applied daily to a 50 kg person ( 0 . 02 mg tretinoin / kg body weight ) .
Studies in hairless albino mice suggest that concurrent exposure to tretinoin may enhance the tumorigenic potential of carcinogenic doses of UVB and UVA light from a solar simulator .
This effect has been confirmed in a later study in pigmented mice , and dark pigmentation did not overcome the enhancement of photocarcinogenesis by 0 . 05 % tretinoin .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should minimize exposure to sunlight or artificial ultraviolet irradiation sources .
The mutagenic potential of tretinoin was evaluated in the Ames assay and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , both of which were negative .
In dermal Segment I fertility studies of tretinoin in rats , slight ( not statistically significant ) decreases in sperm count and motility were seen at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) , and slight ( not statistically significant ) increases in the number and percent of nonviable embryos in females treated with 0 . 25 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) and above were observed .
A dermal Segment III study with tretinoin has not been performed in any species .
In oral Segment I and Segment III studies in rats with tretinoin , decreased survival of neonates and growth retardation were observed at doses in excess of 2 mg / kg / day ( 16 times the human topical dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Oral tretinoin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats , mice , hamsters , and subhuman primates .
It was teratogenic and fetotoxic in Wistar rats when given orally or topically in doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
However , variations in teratogenic doses among various strains of rats have been reported .
In the cynomolgus monkey , which metabolically is closer to humans for tretinoin than the other species examined , fetal malformations were reported at doses of 10 mg / kg / day or greater , but none were observed at 5 mg / kg / day ( 83 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) , although increased skeletal variations were observed at all doses .
A dose - related increase in embryolethality and abortion was reported .
Similar results have also been reported in pigtail macaques .
Topical tretinoin in animal teratogenicity tests has generated equivocal results .
There is evidence for teratogenicity ( shortened or kinked tail ) of topical tretinoin in Wistar rats at doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
Anomalies ( humerus : short 13 % , bent 6 % , os parietal incompletely ossified 14 % ) have also been reported when 10 mg / kg / day was topically applied .
There are other reports in New Zealand White rabbits administered doses of greater than 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 3 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) of an increased incidence of domed head and hydrocephaly , typical of retinoid - induced fetal malformations in this species .
In contrast , several well - controlled animal studies have shown that dermally applied tretinoin may be fetotoxic , but not overly teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 8 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area in both species ) .
With widespread use of any drug , a small number of birth defect reports associated temporally with the administration of the drug would be expected by chance alone .
Thirty human cases of temporally associated congenital malformations have been reported during two decades of clinical use of tretinoin .
Although no definite pattern of teratogenicity and no causal association has been established from these cases , five of the reports describe the rare birth defect category holoprosencephaly ( defects associated with incomplete midline development of the forebrain ) .
The significance of these spontaneous reports in terms of risk to the fetus is not known .
Nonteratogenic effects Topical tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rabbits when administered 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
Oral tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic , resulting in skeletal variations and increased intrauterine death in rats when administered 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 20 times the maximum human systemic dose adjusted for total body surface area ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Tretinoin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when tretinoin is used by a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use Safety and effectiveness in a geriatric population have not been established .
Clinical studies of tretinoin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Adverse Reactions The skin of certain sensitive individuals may become excessively red , edematous , blistered , or crusted .
If these effects occur , the medication should either be discontinued until the integrity of the skin is restored , or the medication should be adjusted to a level the patient can tolerate .
True contact allergy to topical tretinoin is rarely encountered .
Temporary hyper - or hypopigmentation has been reported with repeated application of a tretinoin preparation .
Some individuals have been reported to have heightened susceptibility to sunlight while under treatment with tretinoin .
To date , all adverse effects of tretinoin have been reversible upon discontinuance of therapy ( see Dosage and Administration Section ) .
Overdosage If medication is applied excessively , no more rapid or better results will be obtained and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
Oral ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of Vitamin A . Dosage and Administration Tretinoin gel or cream should be applied once a day , before retiring , to the skin where acne lesions appear , using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly .
Gel : Excessive application results in " pilling " of the gel , which minimizes the likelihood of over application by the patient .
Application may cause a transitory feeling of warmth or slight stinging .
In cases where it has been necessary to temporarily discontinue therapy or to reduce the frequency of application , therapy may be resumed or frequency of application increased when the patients become able to tolerate the treatment .
Alterations of vehicle , drug concentration , or dose frequency should be closely monitored by careful observation of the clinical therapeutic response and skin tolerance .
During the early weeks of therapy , an apparent exacerbation of inflammatory lesions may occur .
This is due to the action of the medication on deep , previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy .
Therapeutic results should be noticed after two to three weeks but more than six weeks of therapy may be required before definite beneficial effects are seen .
Once the acne lesions have responded satisfactorily , it may be possible to maintain the improvement with less frequent applications , or other dosage forms .
Patients treated with tretinoin preparations may use cosmetics , but the areas to be treated should be cleansed thoroughly before the medication is applied ( see Precautions ) .
How Supplied Tretinoin Gel , USP Tretinoin Cream , USP NDC CODE Strength Qty .
NDC CODE Strength Qty .
43478 - 244 - 15 0 . 025 % 15 g 43478 - 241 - 20 0 . 1 % 20 g 43478 - 244 - 45 0 . 025 % 45 g 43478 - 241 - 45 0 . 1 % 45 g 43478 - 245 - 15 0 . 01 % 15 g 43478 - 242 - 20 0 . 05 % 20 g 43478 - 245 - 15 0 . 01 % 45 g 43478 - 242 - 45 0 . 05 % 45 g 43478 - 243 - 20 0 . 025 % 20 g 43478 - 243 - 45 0 . 025 % 45 g Storage Conditions Tretinoin Gel , USP : store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Tretinoin Cream , USP : store below 27 ° C ( 80 ° F ) Manufactured for Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals , LLC By DPT Laboratories , San Antonio , TX 78215 524F501 Rev . 01 / 11 Tretinoin Gel , USP Tretinoin Cream , USP Rx only For External Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS Acne Treatment IMPORTANT Read Directions Carefully Before Using Read Directions Carefully Before Using .
THIS LEAFLET TELLS YOU ABOUT TRETINOIN ACNE TREATMENT AS PRESCRIBED BY YOUR PHYSICIAN .
THIS PRODUCT IS TO BE USED ONLY ACCORDING TO YOUR DOCTOR ' S INSTRUCTIONS , AND IT SHOULD NOT BE APPLIED TO OTHER AREAS OF THE BODY OR TO OTHER GROWTHS OR LESIONS .
THE LONG - TERM SAFETY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS PRODUCT IN OTHER DISORDERS HAVE NOT BEEN EVALUATED .
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS , BE SURE TO ASK YOUR DOCTOR .
WARNINGS TRETINOIN GELS ARE FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME OR SMOKING DURING USE .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep tube tightly closed .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 oF ( 49 o C ) .
PRECAUTIONS The effects of the sun on your skin .
As you know , overexposure to natural sunlight or the artificial sunlight of a sunlamp can cause sunburn .
Overexposure to the sun over many years may cause premature aging of the skin and even skin cancer .
The chances of these effects occurring will vary depending on skin type , the climate and the care taken to avoid overexposure to the sun .
Therapy with tretinoin may make your skin more susceptible to sunburn and other adverse effects of the sun , so unprotected exposure to natural or artificial sunlight should be minimized .
Laboratory findings .
When laboratory mice are exposed to artificial sunlight , they often develop skin tumors .
These sunlight - induced tumors may appear more quickly and in greater number if the mouse is also topically treated with the active ingredient tretinoin .
In some studies , under different conditions , however , when mice treated with tretinoin were exposed to artificial sunlight , the incidence and rate of development of skin tumors was reduced .
There is no evidence to date that tretinoin alone will cause the development of skin tumors in either laboratory animals or humans .
However , investigations in this area are continuing .
Use caution in the sun .
When outside , even on hazy days , areas treated with tretinoin should be protected .
An effective sunscreen should be used any time you are outside ( consult your physician for a recommendation of an SPF level which will provide you with the necessary high level of protection ) .
For extended sun exposure , protective clothing , like a hat , should be worn .
Do not use artificial sunlamps while you are using tretinoin .
If you do become sunburned , stop your therapy with tretinoin until your skin has recovered .
Avoid excessive exposure to wind or cold .
Extremes of climate tend to dry or burn normal skin .
Skin treated with tretinoin may be more vulnerable to these extremes .
Your physician can recommend ways to manage your acne treatment under such conditions .
Possible problems .
The skin of certain sensitive individuals may become excessively red , swollen , blistered or crusted .
If you are experiencing severe or persistent irritation , discontinue the use of tretinoin and consult your physician .
There have been reports that , in some patients , areas treated with tretinoin developed a temporary increase or decrease in the amount of skin pigment ( color ) present .
The pigment in these areas returned to normal either when the skin was allowed to adjust to tretinoin or therapy was discontinued .
Use other medication only on your doctor ' s advice .
Only your physician knows which other medications may be helpful during treatment and will recommend them to you if necessary .
Follow the physician ' s instructions carefully .
In addition , you should avoid preparations that may dry or irritate your skin .
These preparations may include certain astringents , toiletries containing alcohol , spices or lime , or certain medicated soaps , shampoos and hair permanent solutions .
Do not allow anyone else to use this medication .
Do not use other medications with tretinoin which are not recommended by your doctor .
The medications you have used in the past might cause unnecessary redness or peeling .
If you are pregnant , think you are pregnant or are nursing an infant : No studies have been conducted in humans to establish the safety of tretinoin in pregnant women .
If you are pregnant , think you are pregnant , or are nursing a baby , consult your physician before using this medication .
AND WHILE YOU ' RE ON TRETINOIN THERAPY Use a mild , non - medicated soap .
Avoid frequent washings and harsh scrubbing .
Acne is n't caused by dirt , so no matter how hard you scrub , you ca n't wash it away .
Washing too frequently or scrubbing too roughly may at times actually make your acne worse .
Wash your skin gently with a mild , bland soap .
Two or three times a day should be sufficient .
Pat skin dry with a towel .
Let the face dry 20 - 30 minutes before applying tretinoin .
Remember , excessive irritation such as rubbing , too much washing , use of other medications not suggested by your physician , etc . , may worsen your acne .
HOW TO USE TRETINOIN To get the best results with tretinoin therapy , it is necessary to use it properly .
Forget about the instructions given for other products and the advice of friends .
Just stick to the special plan your doctor has laid out for you and be patient .
Remember , when tretinoin is used properly , many users see improvement by 12 weeks .
AGAIN , FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS — BE PATIENT — DON ' T START AND STOP THERAPY ON YOUR OWN — IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS , ASK YOUR DOCTOR .
To help you use the medication correctly , keep these simple instructions in mind .
• Apply tretinoin once daily before bedtime , or as directed by your physician .
Your physician may advise , especially if your skin is sensitive , that you start your therapy by applying tretinoin every other night .
First , wash with a mild soap and dry your skin gently .
WAIT 20 to 30 MINUTES BEFORE APPLYING MEDICATION ; it is important for skin to be completely dry in order to minimize possible irritation .
• It is better not to use more than the amount suggested by your physician or to apply more frequently than instructed .
Too much may irritate the skin , waste medication and wo n't give faster or better results .
• Keep the medication away from the corners of the nose , mouth , eyes , and open wounds .
Spread away from these areas when applying .
• Tretinoin Cream : Squeeze about a half inch or less of medication onto the fingertip .
While that should be enough for your whole face , after you have some experience with the medication you may find you need slightly more or less to do the job .
The medication should become invisible almost immediately .
If it is still visible , you are using too much .
Cover the affected area lightly with tretinoin cream by first dabbing it on your forehead , chin and both cheeks , then spreading it over the entire affected area .
Smooth gently into the skin .
• Tretinoin Gel : Squeeze about a half inch or less of medication onto the fingertip While that should be enough for your whole face , after you have some experience with the medication you may find you need slightly more or less to do the job .
The medication should become invisible almost immediately .
If it is still visible , or if dry flaking occurs from the gel within a minute or so , you are using too much .
Cover the affected area lightly with tretinoin gel by first dabbing it on your forehead , chin and both cheeks , then spreading it over the entire affected area .
Smooth gently into the skin .
• It is recommended that you apply a moisturizer or a moisturizer with sunscreen that will not aggravate your acne ( noncomedogenic ) every morning after you wash .
WHAT TO EXPECT WITH YOUR NEW TREATMENT Tretinoin works deep inside your skin and this takes time .
You cannot make tretinoin work any faster by applying more than one dose each day , but an excess amount of tretinoin may irritate your skin .
Be patient .
There may be some discomfort or peeling during the early days of treatment .
Some patients also notice that their skin begins to take on a blush .
These reactions do not happen to everyone .
If they do , it is just your skin adjusting to tretinoin and this usually subsides within two to four weeks .
These reactions can usually be minimized by following instructions carefully .
Should the effects become excessively troublesome , consult your doctor .
BY THREE TO SIX WEEKS , some patients notice an appearance of new blemishes ( papules and pustules ) .
At this stage it is important to continue using tretinoin .
If tretinoin is going to have a beneficial effect for you , you should notice a continued improvement in your appearance after 6 to 12 weeks of therapy .
Do n't be discouraged if you see no immediate improvement .
Do n't stop treatment at the first signs of improvement .
Once your acne is under control you should continue regular application of tretinoin until your physician instructs otherwise .
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS All questions of a medical nature should be taken up with your doctor .
For more information about tretinoin , call our toll - free number : 877 567 0862 .
Call between 9 : 00 a . m . and 3 : 00 p . m . Eastern Time , Monday through Friday .
Manufactured for Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals , LLC By DPT Laboratories , San Antonio , TX 78215 524F101 Rev . 01 / 2011 Calmoseptine Drug Facts Active Ingredients Menthol 0 . 44 % Zinc Oxide 20 . 6 % Purpose External analgesic / Anti - itch Skin protectant / Anorectal astringent Uses A moisture barrier that prevents and helps heal skin irritation from : urine , diarrhea , perspiration , fistula damage , feeding tube site leakage , wound drainage ( peri - wound skin ) , minor burns , cuts , scrapes , itching Warnings For external use only .
Not for deep or puncture wounds .
Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of accidental ingestion contact a physician or poison control center immediately .
If condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children Directions Cleanse skin gently with mild skin cleanser .
Pat dry or allow to air dry .
Apply a thin layer of Calmoseptine Ointment to reddened or irritated skin 2 - 4 times daily , or after each incontinent episode or diaper change to promote comfort and long lasting protection .
Inactive Ingredients Calamine , chlorothymol , glycerin , lanolin , phenol , sodium bicarbonate , and thymol in a suitable ointment base PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] DERMAWERX ZMT PAK NDC 69329 - 600 - 30 TRETINOIN CREAM USP 0 . 025 % 20 G CALMOSEPTINE ® OINTMENT 4 OZ SILICONE TAPE 1 ROLL - 1 IN .
X 5 . 5 YD RX ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ]
