Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose Antiseptic Inactive Ingredients : Silica Complex 3 - ( Trimethoxysilyl ) Propyl Dimethyl Octadecyl Ammonium Chloride , Water Use : Helps to protect skin ( 24 hrs ) and various object surfaces ( 28 days ) and decreases the risk of infections of fungus , bacteria and virus Warnings : For external use only Not suitable for children under 2 years .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
In case of eye contact , flush eyes with water immediately .
Discontinue using this product in case of any allergies or skin diseases .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact local health care centre immediately .
Directions of use : Push the capsule ' s paper seal label as marked on it Allow the tissue paper inside to be completely soaked in the liquid Remove the tissue and thoroughly wipe your hands / objects within TWO minutes after opening otherwise it could dry up .
Wait for the hands to dry completely Apply to face , hands , body and object surfaces only .
Not suitable for conductive parts Other information : Store in a cool and dry place .
Do not expose to sunlight Can freeze under 32 F ( 0 C ) and will be reusable after defrost Protects Your HANDS 24 hours OBJECTS 28 days Kills 99 . 9 % Germs & Virus ALCOHOL 0 % FREE Creates an invisible layer of Nano polymer film .
These film tips are positively charged which can absorb virus and bacteria by stabbing the cell membrane and protein layer and keep your hands and others objects free from germs , virus and bacteria Disinfection Process Smear the product evenly on the skin or object surface .
The nano polymer material will form a film and stick firmly to the skin / object after the water evaporates Effective Period ( 24 hours ) on hands & ( 28 days ) on other objects / surfaces .
This film cannot be removed easily by cleaning with water or rubbing with detergent .
The tip of the nano polymer membrane has a positive charge , which has double effects for absorbing and stabbing cell membrane and protein cover thus guarding your hands and other objects from bacteria and virus Suggested Usage Airplanes Hospitals Elevators Schools Public Transport Operation Method Press firmly downwards Soaked tissue will automatically pop out .
Pull out the wet wipe , and rub your hands completely or apply on any object FOR STATE OF CALIFORNIA ONLY PROPOSITION 65 : WARNING : This product may contain chemicals known to the state of California to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm .
For more information go to : www . P65Warnings . ca . gov Imported and Distributed by The WOA Consulting Group Ltd .
Canada 203 - 1345 Pembina Highway Winnipeg , MB R3T 2B6 Tel : ( 204 ) 799 - 4928 E - mail : info @ woaconsultinggroup . com Visit Website for complete information www . WOAProtect . com Made in China Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
