Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal Decongestant Uses • • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • • common cold • • hay fever • • upper respiratory allergies • • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely .
Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • • do not use more than directed • • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• • children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor .
Shake well before use .
Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip by pressing and twisting off the cap .
Rotate the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Lock the pump by ensuring that arrow marks are not aligned and replace the protective cap on tip .
Other information • • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to77 ° F ) • • retain carton for future reference on full labeling .
Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , edetate disodium , microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose sodium , polyethylene glycol , povidone , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic , xanthan gum .
Principal Display Panel NDC 41163 - 716 - 01 compare to Afrin ® No - Drip Original active ingredient * EQUALINE ® no drip nasal spray Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % ( nasal decongestant ) • • original 12 hour pump mist • • fast , powerful congestion relief 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) SAFETY SEALED : Do not use if imprinted seal on bottle is broken or missing DISTRIBUTED BY SUPERVALU INC .
EDEN PRAIRIE , MN 55344 USA * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Schering - Plough Healthcare Products , Inc . , distributor of Afrin ® No Drip Original .
SUPERVALU QUALITY Guaranteed We ’ re committed to your satisfaction and guarantee the quality of this product .
Contact us at 1 - 877 - 932 - 7948 , or www . supervalu - ourownbrands . com .
Please have package available .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
