ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Extract 5 . 0 % PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Citrus Medica Limonum ( Lemon ) Fruit Oil , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Peel Oil , Pelargonium Graveolens Flower Oil , Citrus Aurantium Bergamia ( Bergamot ) Fruit Oil , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Anthemis Nobilis Flower Oil , Rosa Damascena Flower Oil , Pimpinella Anisum ( Anise ) Fruit Oil , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Oil , Cananga Odorata Flower Oil , Lavandula Hybrida Oil , Water , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Angelica Gigas Root Extract , Leonurus Sibiricus Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Artemisia Capillaris Extract , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin WARNINGS Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
1 ) In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
2 ) In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep Out of Reach of Children Uses Uses : 1 .
Drop a drop on the underwear .
2 .
It helps to smell good during your magic day and care female desease .
Directions Directions : This is a female secret care item and it is very effective to protect from infection and harmful diseases .
Most of women can ’ t recognize the importance of secret zone .
Rose Day Essential oil contains herb extracts and natural aroma oils so it can be used safely on the female secret zone .
During usual day , Just drop a drop on the underwear .
The natural extracts makes your pudenda more healthy and good smell will be maintained for a day .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
