Drug Facts Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 % Oxybenzone 3 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Reapply : • After 40 minutes swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients sunflower oil , olive oil , beeswax , candelilla wax , carnauba wax , octyl methoxycinnamate , shea oil , macadamia oil , fragrance , tocopherol acetate Manufactured for Gadi ' s Ingenious Gadgets Inc .
Brooklyn NY 11218 ( 718 ) 831 - 2626 www . LipBalmRing . com Made in China Designed in the U . S . Gadis Lip Moisturizer SPF 15 gadi ' s Lip Moisturizer Ring Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Water Resistant ( 40 minutes ) MOISTURIZES , SOOTHES , AND HYDRATES DRY LIPS .
RECOMMENDED FOR USE DURING OUTDOOR SPORTS .
4 RING INSERTS NET WT .
0 . 1 OZ ( 2 . 8 G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
