WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including THYQUIDITY , either alone or with other therapeutic agents , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
In euthyroid patients , doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction .
Larger doses may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity , particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Thyroid hormones , including THYQUIDITY , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
• Doses beyond the range of daily hormonal requirements may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity ( 6 , 10 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypothyroidism THYQUIDITY is indicated as a replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
Pituitary Thyrotropin ( Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone , TSH ) Suppression THYQUIDITY is indicated as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
Limitations of Use : • THYQUIDITY is not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with THYQUIDITY may induce hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• THYQUIDITY is not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis .
THYQUIDITY is levothyroxine sodium ( T4 ) indicated for : • Hypothyroidism : As replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
( 1 ) • Pituitary Thyrotropin ( Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone , TSH ) Suppression : As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients • Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily , preferably on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer orally using syringe provided by the pharmacy ( 2 . 1 ) • Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect THQUIDITY absorption .
( 2 . 1 ) • Starting dose depends on a variety of factors , including age , body weight , cardiovascular status , and concomitant medical conditions ( including pregnancy ) , concomitant medications , co - administered food , and the specific nature of the condition being treated .
Peak therapeutic effect may not be attained for 4 - 6 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) • See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations .
( 2 . 3 ) • Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and / or T4 as well as clinical status .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 General Administration Information Administer THYQUIDITY as a single daily oral dose , on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
Administer THYQUIDITY at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with THYQUIDITY absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect THYQUIDITY absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 9 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Administer THYQUIDITY directly to the mouth using a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy .
A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device .
2 . 2 General Principles of Dosing The dose of THYQUIDITY for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including : the patient ' s age , body weight , cardiovascular status , concomitant medical conditions ( including pregnancy ) , concomitant medications , co - administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient ' s clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose of THYQUIDITY may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks .
2 . 3 Dosing in Specific Patient Populations Primary Hypothyroidism in Adults and in Adolescents in Whom Growth and Puberty are Complete Start THYQUIDITY at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy , non - elderly individuals who have been hypothyroid for only a short time ( such as a few months ) .
The average full replacement dose of THYQUIDITY is approximately 1 . 6 mcg per kg per day ( for example : 100 to 125 mcg per day for a 70 kg adult ) .
Adjust the dose by 12 . 5 to 25 mcg increments every 4 to 6 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal .
Doses greater than 200 mcg per day are seldom required .
An inadequate response to daily doses of greater than 300 mcg per day is rare and may indicate poor compliance , malabsorption , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors .
For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiac disease , start with a dose of 12 . 5 to 25 mcg per day .
Increase the dose every 6 to 8 weeks , as needed , until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal .
The full replacement dose of THYQUIDITY may be less than 1 mcg per kg per day in elderly patients .
In patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism , start with a dose of 12 . 5 to 25 mcg per day .
Adjust the dose in 12 . 5 to 25 mcg increments every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH level is normalized .
Secondary or Tertiary Hypothyroidism Start THYQUIDITY at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy , non - elderly individuals .
Start with a lower dose in elderly patients , patients with underlying cardiovascular disease or patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism as described above .
Serum TSH is not a reliable measure of THYQUIDITY dose adequacy in patients with secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism and should not be used to monitor therapy .
Use the serum free - T4 level to monitor adequacy of therapy in this patient population .
Titrate THYQUIDITY dosing per above instructions until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free - T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range .
Pediatric Dosage - Congenital or Acquired Hypothyroidism The recommended daily dose of THYQUIDITY in pediatric patients with hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 1 .
Start THYQUIDITY at the full daily dose in most pediatric patients .
Start at a lower starting dose in newborns ( 0 - 3 months ) at risk for cardiac failure and in children at risk for hyperactivity ( see below ) .
Monitor for clinical and laboratory response [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Table 1 .
THYQUIDITY Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism AGE Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weighta 0 - 3 months 10 - 15 mcg / kg / day 3 - 6 months 8 - 10 mcg / kg / day 6 - 12 months 6 - 8 mcg / kg / day 1 - 5 years 5 - 6 mcg / kg / day 6 - 12 years 4 - 5 mcg / kg / day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 - 3 mcg / kg / day Growth and puberty complete 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day a .
The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Newborns ( 0 - 3 months ) at risk for cardiac failure : Consider a lower starting dose in newborns at risk for cardiac failure .
Increase the dose every 4 to 6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response .
Children at risk for hyperactivity : To minimize the risk of hyperactivity in children , start at one - fourth the recommended full replacement dose , and increase on a weekly basis by one - fourth the full recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached .
Pregnancy Pre - existing Hypothyroidism : THYQUIDITY dose requirements may increase during pregnancy .
Measure serum TSH and free - T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and , at a minimum , during each trimester of pregnancy .
In patients with primary hypothyroidism , maintain serum TSH in the trimester - specific reference range .
For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester - specific range , increase the dose of THYQUIDITY by 12 . 5 to 25 mcg / day and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable THYQUIDITY dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester - specific range .
Reduce THYQUIDITY dosage to pre - pregnancy levels immediately after delivery and measure serum TSH levels 4 to 8 weeks postpartum to ensure THYQUIDITY dose is appropriate .
New Onset Hypothyroidism : Normalize thyroid function as rapidly as possible .
Evaluate serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust THYQUIDITY dosage until a serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
TSH Suppression in Well - differentiated Thyroid Cancer Generally , TSH is suppressed to below 0 . 1 mIU per liter , and this usually requires a THYQUIDITY dose of greater than 2 mcg per kg per day .
However , in patients with high - risk tumors , the target level for TSH suppression may be lower .
2 . 4 Monitoring TSH and / or Thyroxine ( T4 ) Levels Assess the adequacy of therapy by periodic assessment of laboratory tests and clinical evaluation .
Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism , despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of THYQUIDITY , may be evidence of inadequate absorption , poor compliance , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors .
Adults In adult patients with primary hypothyroidism , monitor serum TSH levels after an interval of 6 to 8 weeks after any change in dose .
In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dose , evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient ’ s clinical status .
Pediatrics In patients with congenital hypothyroidism , assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free - T4 .
Monitor TSH and total or free - T4 in children as follows : 2 and 4 weeks after the initiation of treatment , 2 weeks after any change in dosage , and then every 3 to 12 months thereafter following dose stabilization until growth is completed .
Poor compliance or abnormal values may necessitate more frequent monitoring .
Perform routine clinical examination , including assessment of development , mental and physical growth , and bone maturation , at regular intervals .
Although the general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level , TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary - thyroid feedback .
Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of THYQUIDITY therapy and / or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy .
Assess compliance , dose of medication administered , and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of THYQUIDITY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Secondary and Tertiary Hypothyroidism Monitor serum free - T4 levels and maintain in the upper half of the normal range in these patients .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral Solution : 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) clear , colorless to nearly colorless solution in 100 mL bottles THYQUIDITY is to be used with a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy .
Oral Solution : 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) in 100 mL bottles ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS THYQUIDITY is contraindicated in patients with : • Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiac adverse reactions in the elderly and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease : Initiate THYQUIDITY at less than the full replacement dose because of the increased risk of cardiac adverse reactions , including atrial fibrillation .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 5 ) • Myxedema coma : Do not use oral thyroid hormone drug products to treat myxedema coma .
( 5 . 2 ) • Acute adrenal crisis in patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency : Treat with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of THYQUIDITY treatment .
( 5 . 3 ) • Prevention of hyperthyroidism or incomplete treatment of hypothyroidism : Proper dose titration and careful monitoring is critical to prevent the persistence of hypothyroidism or the development of hyperthyroidism .
( 5 . 4 ) • Worsening of diabetic control : Therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing thyroid hormone therapy .
( 5 . 5 ) • Decreased bone mineral density associated with thyroid hormone over - replacement : Over - replacement can increase bone resorption and decrease bone mineral density .
Give the lowest effective dose .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease Over - treatment with levothyroxine may cause an increase in heart rate , cardiac wall thickness , and cardiac contractility and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Initiate THYQUIDITY therapy in this population at lower doses than those recommended in younger individuals or in patients without cardiac disease [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor for cardiac arrhythmias during surgical procedures in patients with coronary artery disease receiving suppressive THYQUIDITY therapy .
Monitor patients receiving concomitant THYQUIDITY and sympathomimetic agents for signs and symptoms of coronary insufficiency .
If cardiac symptoms develop or worsen , reduce the THYQUIDITY dose or withhold for one week and restart at a lower dose .
5 . 2 Myxedema Coma Myxedema coma is a life - threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation and hypometabolism , and may result in unpredictable absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the gastrointestinal tract .
Use of oral thyroid hormone drug products is not recommended to treat myxedema coma .
Administer thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration to treat myxedema coma .
5 . 3 Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Thyroid hormone increases metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids .
Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment with THYQUIDITY [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Prevention of Hyperthyroidism or Incomplete Treatment of Hypothyroidism THYQUIDITY has a narrow therapeutic index .
Over - or undertreatment with THYQUIDITY may have negative effects on growth and development , cardiovascular function , bone metabolism , reproductive function , cognitive function , emotional state , gastrointestinal function , and glucose and lipid metabolism [ see Use in Specific Populations - Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Titrate the dose of THYQUIDITY carefully and monitor response to titration to avoid these effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Monitor for the presence of drug or food interactions when using THYQUIDITY and adjust the dose as necessary [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 9 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Worsening of Diabetic Control Addition of levothyroxine therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing THYQUIDITY [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Decreased Bone Mineral Density Associated with Thyroid Hormone Over - Replacement Increased bone resorption and decreased bone mineral density may occur as a result of levothyroxine over - replacement , particularly in post - menopausal women .
The increased bone resorption may be associated with increased serum levels and urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorous , elevations in bone alkaline phosphatase , and suppressed serum parathyroid hormone levels .
Administer the minimum dose of THYQUIDITY that achieves the desired clinical and biochemical response to mitigate this risk .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with THYQUIDITY therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
They include the following : • General : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating • Central nervous system : headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia • Musculoskeletal : tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm • Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest • Respiratory : dyspnea • Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests • Dermatologic : hair loss , flushing , rash • Endocrine : decreased bone mineral density • Reproductive : menstrual irregularities , impaired fertility Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy .
Adverse Reactions in Children Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in children receiving levothyroxine therapy .
Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in children with resultant compromised adult height .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products .
These include urticaria , pruritus , skin rash , flushing , angioedema , various gastrointestinal symptoms ( abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , fever , arthralgia , serum sickness , and wheezing .
Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur .
Adverse reactions associated with THYQUIDITY therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage : arrhythmias , myocardial infarction , dyspnea , muscle spasm , headache , nervousness , irritability , insomnia , tremors , muscle weakness , increased appetite , weight loss , diarrhea , heat intolerance , menstrual irregularities , and skin rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Vertice Specialty Group , a division of VistaPharm , Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 470 - 6233 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , metabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to THYQUIDITY .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , metabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to THYQUIDITY ( see Tables 2 - 5 below ) .
Table 2 .
Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of THYQUIDITY by binding and delaying or preventing absorption , potentially resulting in hypothyroidism .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Calcium Carbonate Ferrous Sulfate Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine , and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric - thyroxine complex .
Administer THYQUIDITY at least 4 hours apart from these agents .
Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and THYQUIDITY for changes in thyroid function .
Bile Acid Sequestrants - Colesevelam - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins - Kayexalate - Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption .
Administer THYQUIDITY at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor TSH levels .
Other drugs : Proton Pump Inhibitors Sucralfate Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine .
Sucralfate , antacids and proton pump inhibitors may cause hypochlorhydria , affect intragastric pH , and reduce levothyroxine absorption .
Monitor patients appropriately .
Table 3 .
Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine ( FT4 ) Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration .
Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration .
Potential impact ( below ) : Administration of these agents with THYQUIDITY results in an initial transient increase in FT4 .
Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Carbamazepine Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein - binding site displacement .
Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin , causing an increase free T4 fraction in serum .
Furosemide competes for T4 - binding sites on TBG , prealbumin , and albumin , so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level .
Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine , and total and free T4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters .
Table 4 .
Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine , resulting in increased THYQUIDITY requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine .
Phenobarbital increases L - thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5 ’ - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels .
Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism .
Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of levothyroxine .
Table 5 .
Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3 Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists ( e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
Actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone > 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( See above ) .
Other drugs : Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and may cause isolated biochemical changes ( increase in serum free - T4 , and decrease or normal free - T3 ) in clinically euthyroid patients .
7 . 2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of THYQUIDITY therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control , especially when thyroid therapy is started , changed , or discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 3 Oral Anticoagulants THYQUIDITY increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the THYQUIDITY dose is increased .
Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides THYQUIDITY may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may decrease when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and THYQUIDITY may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation .
THYQUIDITY may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on THYQUIDITY may result in increased THYQUIDITY requirements .
7 . 6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and THYQUIDITY may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia .
Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients 7 . 7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and THYQUIDITY may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 8 Tyrosine - Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine - kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism .
Closely monitor TSH levels in such patients .
7 . 9 Drug - Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect THYQUIDITY absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Soybean products , such as infant formula and soybean flour , cottonseed meal , walnuts , and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of THYQUIDITY from the gastrointestinal tract .
Grapefruit juice may delay the absorption of levothyroxine and reduce its bioavailability .
7 . 10 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values .
Measure and evaluate unbound ( free ) hormone and / or determine the free - T4 index ( FT4I ) in this circumstance .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen - containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentration .
Nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , androgens , and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration .
Familial hyper - or hypo - thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy may require the use of higher doses of THYQUIDITY .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Prolonged experience with levothyroxine use in pregnant women , including data from post - marketing studies , to maintain a euthyroid state have not reported increased rates of major birth defects , miscarriages , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with untreated hypothyroidism in pregnancy .
Since TSH levels may increase during pregnancy , TSH should be monitored and THYQUIDITY dosage adjusted during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
There are no animal studies conducted with levothyroxine during pregnancy .
THYQUIDITY should not be discontinued during pregnancy and hypothyroidism diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of complications , including spontaneous abortion , gestational hypertension , pre - eclampsia , stillbirth , and premature delivery .
Untreated maternal hypothyroidism may have an adverse effect on fetal neurocognitive development .
Dose Adjustments During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period Pregnancy may increase THYQUIDITY requirements .
Serum TSH levels should be monitored and the THYQUIDITY dosage adjusted during pregnancy to maintain TSH within normal trimester specific ranges .
Since postpartum TSH levels are similar to preconception values , the THYQUIDITY dosage should return to the pre - pregnancy dose immediately after delivery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published studies report that levothyroxine is present in human milk .
No adverse effects on the breastfed infant have been reported and there is no information on the effects of levothyroxine on milk production .
Adequate levothyroxine treatment during lactation may normalize milk production in hypothyroid lactating mothers with low milk supply .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for THYQUIDITY and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from THYQUIDITY or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of THYQUIDITY has been established for the treatment of congenital hypothyroidism and acquired hypothyroidism in pediatric patients down to birth [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Glycerol has the potential to cause gastrointestinal irritation resulting in vomiting and / or osmotic diarrhea .
Patients in the first 3 months of life may be particularly susceptible to serious fluid and electrolyte complications from glycerol - induced gastrointestinal irritation .
Closely monitor patients from birth to 3 months of age receiving THYQUIDITY for signs and symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation .
Congenital Hypothyroidism [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] Rapid restoration of normal serum T4 concentrations is essential for preventing the adverse effects of congenital hypothyroidism on intellectual development as well as on overall physical growth and maturation .
Therefore , initiate THYQUIDITY therapy immediately upon diagnosis .
Levothyroxine is generally continued for life in these patients .
Closely monitor patients during the first 2 weeks of THYQUIDITY therapy for cardiac overload , arrhythmias , and aspiration from avid suckling .
Closely monitor patients to avoid undertreatment or overtreatment .
Undertreatment may have deleterious effects on intellectual development and linear growth .
Overtreatment is associated with craniosynostosis in infants , may adversely affect the tempo of brain maturation , and may accelerate the bone age and result in premature epiphyseal closure and compromised adult stature .
Acquired Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients Closely monitor patients to avoid undertreatment and overtreatment .
Undertreatment may result in poor school performance due to impaired concentration and slowed mentation and in reduced adult height .
Overtreatment may accelerate the bone age and result in premature epiphyseal closure and compromised adult stature .
Treated children may manifest a period of catch - up growth , which may be adequate in some cases to normalize adult height .
In children with severe or prolonged hypothyroidism , catch - up growth may not be adequate to normalize adult height .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among the elderly , initiate THYQUIDITY at less than the full replacement dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Atrial arrhythmias can occur in elderly patients .
Atrial fibrillation is the most common of the arrhythmias observed with levothyroxine overtreatment in the elderly .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdosage are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Seizures occurred in a 3 - year old child ingesting 3 . 6 mg of levothyroxine .
Symptoms may not necessarily be evident or may not appear until several days after ingestion of levothyroxine sodium .
Reduce the THYQUIDITY dose or discontinue temporarily if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
Initiate appropriate supportive treatment as dictated by the patient ’ s medical status .
For current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage , contact the National Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or www . poison . org .
11 DESCRIPTION THYQUIDITY ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution contains synthetic L - 3 , 3 ' , 5 , 5 ' - tetraiodothyronine sodium salt [ levothyroxine ( T4 ) sodium ] .
Synthetic T4 is chemically identical to that produced in the human thyroid gland , and is very slightly soluble in water .
Levothyroxine ( T4 ) sodium hydrate has an empirical formula of C15H10I4NNaO4 • xH2O , molecular weight of 798 . 85 ( anhydrous ) , and structural formula as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] THYQUIDITY oral solution is supplied in the following strength : 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) .
THYQUIDITY oral solution contains the inactive ingredients citric acid monohydrate , glycerin , methylparaben sodium , sodium hydroxide and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and L - thyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Oral levothyroxine sodium is a synthetic T4 hormone that exerts the same physiologic effect as endogenous T4 , thereby maintaining normal T4 levels when a deficiency is present .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Absorption of orally administered T4 from the gastrointestinal tract ranges from 40 % to 80 % .
The majority of the THYQUIDITY dose is absorbed from the jejunum and upper ileum .
T4 absorption is increased by fasting , and decreased in malabsorption syndromes and by certain foods such as soybeans .
Dietary fiber decreases bioavailability of T4 .
Absorption may also decrease with age .
In addition , many drugs and foods affect T4 absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Distribution Circulating thyroid hormones are greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , including thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) , thyroxine - binding prealbumin ( TBPA ) , and thyroxine - binding albumin ( TBA ) , whose capacities and affinities vary for each hormone .
The higher affinity of both TBG and TBPA for T4 partially explains the higher serum levels , slower metabolic clearance , and longer half - life of T4 compared to T3 .
Protein - bound thyroid hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with small amounts of free hormone .
Only unbound hormone is metabolically active .
Many drugs and physiologic conditions affect the binding of thyroid hormones to serum proteins [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Thyroid hormones do not readily cross the placental barrier [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Elimination Metabolism T4 is slowly eliminated ( see Table 6 ) .
The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately 80 % of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by monodeiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 , with T4 deiodination also occurring at a number of additional sites , including the kidney and other tissues .
Approximately 80 % of the daily dose of T4 is deiodinated to yield equal amounts of T3 and reverse T3 ( rT3 ) .
T3 and rT3 are further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Excretion Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged and is eliminated in the feces .
Approximately 20 % of T4 is eliminated in the stool .
Urinary excretion of T4 decreases with age .
Table 6 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Thyroid Hormones in Euthyroid Patients Hormone Ratio in Thyroglobulin Biologic Potency Half - Life ( days ) Protein Binding ( % ) a Levothyroxine ( T4 ) 10 - 20 1 6 - 7 b 99 . 96 Liothyronine ( T3 ) 1 4 ≤ 2 99 . 5 aIncludes TBG , TBPA , and TBA b3 to 4 days in hyperthyroidism , 9 to 10 days in hypothyroidism 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Standard animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of levothyroxine .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING THYQUIDITY ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution , 100 mcg per 5 mL ( 20 mcg per mL ) is a clear , colorless to nearly colorless solution supplied in a 100 mL amber glass bottle with a child - resistant closure as follows : NDC 66689 - 105 - 04 : 1 x 100 mL bottle NDC 66689 - 105 - 02 : 2 x 100 mL bottles ( NDC 66689 - 105 - 04 ) The pharmacy will provide a calibrated oral syringe to accurately measure the prescribed dose .
Storage Conditions Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Store and dispense in original bottle .
Use within 8 weeks of opening the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform the patient of the following information to aid in the safe and effective use of THYQUIDITY : Dosing and Administration • Instruct patients to take THYQUIDITY only as directed by their healthcare provider .
• Instruct patients to take THYQUIDITY once daily , preferably on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
• Instruct patients to always use a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy when administering THYQUIDITY to ensure that the dose is measured and administered accurately .
• Inform patients that agents such as iron and calcium supplements and antacids can decrease the absorption of levothyroxine .
Instruct patients not to take THYQUIDITY within 4 hours of these agents .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are pregnant or breastfeeding or are thinking of becoming pregnant while taking THYQUIDITY .
Important Information • Inform patients that it may take several weeks before they notice an improvement in symptoms .
• Inform patients that the levothyroxine in THYQUIDITY is intended to replace a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland .
Generally , replacement therapy is to be taken for life .
• Inform patients that THYQUIDITY should not be used as a primary or adjunctive therapy in a weight control program .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are taking any other medications , including prescription and over - the - counter preparations .
• Instruct patients to notify their physician of any other medical conditions they may have , particularly heart disease , diabetes , clotting disorders , and adrenal or pituitary gland problems , as the dose of medications used to control these other conditions may need to be adjusted while they are taking THYQUIDITY .
If they have diabetes , instruct patients to monitor their blood and / or urinary glucose levels as directed by their physician and immediately report any changes to their physician .
If patients are taking anticoagulants , their clotting status should be checked frequently .
• Instruct patients to notify their physician or dentist that they are taking THYQUIDITY prior to any surgery .
Adverse Reactions • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they experience any of the following symptoms : rapid or irregular heartbeat , chest pain , shortness of breath , leg cramps , headache , nervousness , irritability , sleeplessness , tremors , change in appetite , weight gain or loss , vomiting , diarrhea , excessive sweating , heat intolerance , fever , changes in menstrual periods , hives or skin rash , or any other unusual medical event .
• Inform patients that partial hair loss may occur rarely during the first few months of THYQUIDITY therapy , but this is usually temporary .
Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vertice Specialty Group , a division of VistaPharm , Inc .
Largo , FL 33771 For more information go to www . thyquidity . com 24030173 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - BOTTLE NDC 66689 - 105 - 04 ThyquidityTM ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 100 micrograms / 5 mL ( 20 micrograms / mL ) For Oral Administration Only PHARMACIST : Advise patients to always use a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy when using this product .
Store and dispense in original bottle .
100 mL Rx Only Vertice Specialty Group [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON NDC 66689 - 105 - 04 ThyquidityTM ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 100 micrograms / 5 mL ( 20 micrograms / mL ) For Oral Administration Only PHARMACIST : Advise patients to always use a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy when using this product .
Store and dispense in original bottle .
100 mL Rx Only Vertice Specialty Group [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON - 2 x 100 mL NDC 66689 - 105 - 02 ThyquidityTM ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 100 micrograms / 5 mL ( 20 micrograms / mL ) For Oral Administration Only PHARMACIST : Advise patients to always use a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy when using this product .
Store and dispense in original bottle .
2 x 100 mL Rx Only Vertice Specialty Group [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
