DESCRIPTION : Myferon 150 Forte capsules are highly water soluble low molecular weight polysaccharide iron complex and vitaminns .
Each capsule contains : Elemental Iron .......... 150 mg ( as Polysaccharide Iron Complex ) Folic Acid .................. 1 mg Vitamin B 12 ............... 25 mcg .
( Cyanocobalamin ) Other ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose , Gelatin , Dicalcium , Phosphate , Stearic Acid , Pharmaceutical Glaze , Magnesium Stearate , Iron Oxides , Titanium Dioxide , FD and C Red # 40 Lake and FD and C Blue # 1 Lake .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Iron is an essential component in the formation of hemoglobin .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for effective erythropoiesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several enzymes , including cytochromes that are involved in electron transport .
Folic acid is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal erythropoiesis .
Folic acid is converted in the liver and plasma to its metabolically active form , tetrahydrofolic acid by dihydrofolate reductase .
Vitamin B 12 is required for the maintenance of normal erythhropoiesis , nucleoprotein and myelin synthesis , cell reproduction and normal growth .
Intrinsic factor , a glycoprotein secreted by the gastric mucosa , is required for active absorption of Vitamin B 12 from the gastric tract .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Myferon 150 Forte is indicated for the prevention and treatment of iron deficiency anemia and / or nutritional megaloblastic anemias .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Myferon 150 Forte is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the components of this product .
Hemochromatosis and hemosiderosis are contraindications to iron therapy .
WARNINGS : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B 12 is deficient .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Do not exceed recommended dose .
The type of anemia and the underlying cause or causes should be determined before starting therapy with Myferon 150 Forte .
Since the anemia may be a result of a systemic disturbance , such as recurrent blood loss , the underlying cause or causes should be corrected .
If possible .
Folic Acid : Folic Acid in doses above 1 . 0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using this product since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies on this product have not been performed in sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , dark stools , and abdominal pain .
Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
OVERDOSE : The clinical course of acute iron overdosage can be variable .
Initial symptoms may include abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , tarry stools , melena , hematamesis , hypotension , tachycardia , metabolic acidosis , hyperglycemia , dehydration , drowsiness , pallor , cyanosis , lassitude , seizures , shock and coma .
Chronic toxicity studies in rats and dogs administered polysaccharide iron complex showed that a daily dosage of 250 mg iron / kg .
for three months had no adverse effects .
The oral LD50 of polysaccharide iron complex was estimated to be greater than 5000 mg / kg in rats .
HOW SUPPLIED : Myferon 150 Forte is supplied in Unit Dose blister packs , 10 capsules per card .
Capsules are opaque maroon .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
( See USP controlled Room Temperature ) .
Avoid excessive heat 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be pursuant to state statues as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book Product .
Myferon 150 Forte Product Label M . E . PHARMACEUTICALS , Inc .
58607 - 112 - 00 Myferon ™ 150 Forte Capsules 150 mg of elemental iron 1 mg of folic acid 25 mcg vitamin B12 100 Rx Only 10 x 10 Unit Dose Capsules Mfg . by M . E . Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Richmond , IN 47374 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
