1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZOLINZA ® is indicated for the treatment of cutaneous manifestations in patients with cutaneous T - cell lymphoma who have progressive , persistent or recurrent disease on or following two systemic therapies .
ZOLINZA is a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of cutaneous manifestations in patients with cutaneous T - cell lymphoma ( CTCL ) who have progressive , persistent or recurrent disease on or following two systemic therapies .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 400 mg orally once daily with food .
( 2 . 1 ) • If patient is intolerant to therapy , reduce the dose to 300 mg orally once daily with food .
If necessary , reduce the dose further to 300 mg once daily with food for 5 consecutive days each week .
( 2 . 2 , 5 ) • Reduce dose in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information The recommended dose is 400 mg orally once daily with food .
Treatment may be continued as long as there is no evidence of progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity .
ZOLINZA capsules should not be opened or crushed [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dose Modifications For Toxicity If a patient is intolerant to therapy , the dose may be reduced to 300 mg orally once daily with food .
The dose may be further reduced to 300 mg once daily with food for 5 consecutive days each week , as necessary .
Hepatic Impairment Reduce the starting dose to 300 mg orally once daily with food in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( bilirubin 1 to 3 × ULN or AST greater than ULN ) .
There is insufficient evidence to recommend a starting dose for patients with severe hepatic impairment ( bilirubin greater than 3 × ULN ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 100 mg white , opaque , hard gelatin capsules with " 568 " over " 100 mg " printed within radial bar in black ink on the capsule body .
Capsules : 100 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thromboembolism : Monitor for pertinent signs and symptoms of pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis .
( 5 . 1 ) • Myelosuppression : Thrombocytopenia and anemia may require dose modification or discontinuation .
Monitor blood counts every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 , 6 ) • Gastrointestinal Toxicity : Nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ; patients may require antiemetics , antidiarrheals , and fluid and electrolyte replacement to prevent dehydration .
( 5 . 3 , 6 ) • Hyperglycemia : Monitor blood glucose every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter .
( 5 . 4 ) • Clinical Chemistry Abnormalities : Measure and correct abnormal electrolytes , creatinine , magnesium and calcium at baseline .
Monitor every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and at least monthly during treatment .
( 5 . 5 ) • Severe Thrombocytopenia with Concomitant Use of other HDAC Inhibitors : Severe thrombocytopenia with gastrointestinal bleeding has been reported with concomitant use of ZOLINZA and other HDAC inhibitors ( e . g . , valproic acid ) .
Monitor platelet counts more frequently .
( 5 . 6 , 7 . 2 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman .
Women should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolism Pulmonary embolism occurred in 5 % ( 4 / 86 ) of patients receiving ZOLINZA , and deep vein thrombosis has also been reported .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of these events , particularly in patients with a prior history of thromboembolic events [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 2 Myelosuppression Treatment with ZOLINZA can cause dose - related thrombocytopenia and anemia .
Monitor blood counts every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter .
Adjust dosage or discontinue treatment with ZOLINZA as clinically appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Gastrointestinal Toxicity Gastrointestinal disturbances , including nausea , vomiting and diarrhea , have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] and may require the use of antiemetic and antidiarrheal medications .
Fluid and electrolytes should be replaced to prevent dehydration [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Pre - existing nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea should be adequately controlled before beginning therapy with ZOLINZA .
5 . 4 Hyperglycemia Hyperglycemia has been observed in patients receiving ZOLINZA and was severe in 5 % ( 4 / 86 ) of patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor serum glucose every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter .
5 . 5 Clinical Chemistry Abnormalities Obtain chemistry tests , including serum electrolytes , creatinine , magnesium , and calcium , every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter .
Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to administration of ZOLINZA .
Monitor potassium and magnesium more frequently in symptomatic patients ( e . g . , patients with nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , fluid imbalance or cardiac symptoms ) .
5 . 6 Severe Thrombocytopenia when Combined with Other Histone Deacetylase ( HDAC ) Inhibitors Severe thrombocytopenia leading to gastrointestinal bleeding has been reported with concomitant use of ZOLINZA and other HDAC inhibitors ( e . g . , valproic acid ) .
Monitor platelet counts more frequently [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , ZOLINZA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are insufficient data on ZOLINZA use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , vorinostat crossed the placenta and caused adverse developmental outcomes at exposures approximately 0 . 5 times the human exposure based on AUC0 - 24 hours .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose .
Advise males with female sexual partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions have been associated with ZOLINZA in clinical trials and are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Thromboembolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Gastrointestinal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Clinical Chemistry Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Severe thrombocytopenia when combined with other Histone Deacetylase ( HDAC ) Inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 20 % ) are diarrhea , fatigue , nausea , thrombocytopenia , anorexia and dysgeusia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC at 1 - 877 - 888 - 4231 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of ZOLINZA was evaluated in 107 CTCL patients in two single arm clinical studies in which 86 patients received 400 mg once daily .
The data described below reflect exposure to ZOLINZA 400 mg once daily in the 86 patients for a median number of 97 . 5 days on therapy ( range 2 to 480 + days ) .
Seventeen ( 19 . 8 % ) patients were exposed beyond 24 weeks and 8 ( 9 . 3 % ) patients were exposed beyond 1 year .
The population of CTCL patients studied was 37 to 83 years of age , 47 . 7 % female , 52 . 3 % male , and 81 . 4 % white , 16 . 3 % black , and 1 . 2 % Asian or multi - racial .
Common Adverse Reactions The most common drug - related adverse reactions can be classified into 4 symptom complexes : gastrointestinal symptoms ( diarrhea , nausea , anorexia , weight decrease , vomiting , constipation ) , constitutional symptoms ( fatigue , chills ) , hematologic abnormalities ( thrombocytopenia , anemia ) , and taste disorders ( dysgeusia , dry mouth ) .
The most common serious drug - related adverse reactions were pulmonary embolism and anemia .
Table 1 summarizes the frequency of CTCL patients with specific adverse reactions , using the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI - CTCAE , version 3 . 0 ) .
Table 1 : Clinical or Laboratory Adverse Reactions Occurring in CTCL Patients ( Incidence ≥ 10 % of patients ) ZOLINZA 400 mg once daily ( N = 86 ) Adverse Reactions All Grades Grades 3 - 4 n % n % Fatigue 45 52 . 3 3 3 . 5 Diarrhea 45 52 . 3 0 0 . 0 Nausea 35 40 . 7 3 3 . 5 Dysgeusia 24 27 . 9 0 0 . 0 Thrombocytopenia 22 25 . 6 5 5 . 8 Anorexia 21 24 . 4 2 2 . 3 Weight Decreased 18 20 . 9 1 1 . 2 Muscle Spasms 17 19 . 8 2 2 . 3 Alopecia 16 18 . 6 0 0 . 0 Dry Mouth 14 16 . 3 0 0 . 0 Blood Creatinine Increased 14 16 . 3 0 0 . 0 Chills 14 16 . 3 1 1 . 2 Vomiting 13 15 . 1 1 1 . 2 Constipation 13 15 . 1 0 0 . 0 Dizziness 13 15 . 1 1 1 . 2 Anemia 12 14 . 0 2 2 . 3 Decreased Appetite 12 14 . 0 1 1 . 2 Peripheral Edema 11 12 . 8 0 0 . 0 Headache 10 11 . 6 0 0 . 0 Pruritus 10 11 . 6 1 1 . 2 Cough 9 10 . 5 0 0 . 0 Upper Respiratory Infection 9 10 . 5 0 0 . 0 Pyrexia 9 10 . 5 1 1 . 2 The frequencies of more severe thrombocytopenia , anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] and fatigue were increased at doses higher than 400 mg once daily of ZOLINZA .
Serious Adverse Reactions The most common serious adverse reactions in the 86 CTCL patients in two clinical trials were pulmonary embolism reported in 4 . 7 % ( 4 / 86 ) of patients , squamous cell carcinoma reported in 3 . 5 % ( 3 / 86 ) of patients and anemia reported in 2 . 3 % ( 2 / 86 ) of patients .
There were single events of cholecystitis , death ( of unknown cause ) , deep vein thrombosis , enterococcal infection , exfoliative dermatitis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , infection , lobar pneumonia , myocardial infarction , ischemic stroke , pelviureteric obstruction , sepsis , spinal cord injury , streptococcal bacteremia , syncope , T - cell lymphoma , thrombocytopenia and ureteric obstruction .
Discontinuations Of the CTCL patients who received the 400 - mg once daily dose , 9 . 3 % ( 8 / 86 ) of patients discontinued ZOLINZA due to adverse reactions .
These adverse reactions , regardless of causality , included anemia , angioneurotic edema , asthenia , chest pain , exfoliative dermatitis , death , deep vein thrombosis , ischemic stroke , lethargy , pulmonary embolism , and spinal cord injury .
Dose Modifications Of the CTCL patients who received the 400 - mg once daily dose , 10 . 5 % ( 9 / 86 ) of patients required a dose modification of ZOLINZA due to adverse reactions .
These adverse reactions included increased serum creatinine , decreased appetite , hypokalemia , leukopenia , nausea , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and vomiting .
The median time to the first adverse reactions resulting in dose reduction was 42 days ( range 17 to 263 days ) .
Laboratory Abnormalities Laboratory abnormalities were reported in all of the 86 CTCL patients who received the 400 - mg once - daily dose .
Increased serum glucose was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 69 % ( 59 / 86 ) of CTCL patients who received the 400 - mg once daily dose ; only 4 of these abnormalities were severe ( Grade 3 ) .
Increased serum glucose was reported as an adverse reaction in 8 . 1 % ( 7 / 86 ) of CTCL patients who received the 400 - mg once daily dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Transient increases in serum creatinine were detected in 46 . 5 % ( 40 / 86 ) of CTCL patients who received the 400 - mg once daily dose .
Of these laboratory abnormalities , 34 were NCI CTCAE Grade 1 , 5 were Grade 2 , and 1 was Grade 3 .
Proteinuria was detected as a laboratory abnormality ( 51 . 4 % ) in 38 of 74 patients tested .
The clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
Dehydration Based on reports of dehydration as a serious drug - related adverse reaction in clinical trials , patients were instructed to drink at least 2 L / day of fluids for adequate hydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions in Non - CTCL Patients The frequencies of individual adverse reactions were substantially higher in the non - CTCL population .
Drug - related serious adverse reactions reported in the non - CTCL population which were not observed in the CTCL population included single events of blurred vision , asthenia , hyponatremia , tumor hemorrhage , Guillain - Barré syndrome , renal failure , urinary retention , cough , hemoptysis , hypertension , and vasculitis .
In patients recovering from bowel surgery and treated perioperatively with ZOLINZA , anastomotic healing complications including fistulas , perforations , and abscess formation have occurred .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Coumarin - derivative anticoagulants : Prolongation of prothrombin time and International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) have been observed with concomitant use .
Monitor INR frequently .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Coumarin - Derivative Anticoagulants Prolongation of prothrombin time ( PT ) and International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) were observed in patients receiving ZOLINZA concomitantly with coumarin - derivative anticoagulants .
Physicians should monitor PT and INR more frequently in patients concurrently administered ZOLINZA and coumarin derivatives .
7 . 2 Other HDAC Inhibitors Severe thrombocytopenia and gastrointestinal bleeding have been reported with concomitant use of ZOLINZA and other HDAC inhibitors ( e . g . , valproic acid ) .
Monitor platelet count every 2 weeks for the first 2 months [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal studies , ZOLINZA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are insufficient data on ZOLINZA use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , administration of vorinostat to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis caused adverse developmental outcomes at maternal exposures approximately 0 . 5 times the human exposure based on AUC0 - 24 hours ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Results of animal studies indicate that vorinostat crosses the placenta and is found in fetal plasma at levels up to 50 % of maternal concentrations .
Doses up to 50 and 150 mg / kg / day were tested in rats and rabbits , respectively ( ~ 0 . 5 times the human exposure based on AUC0 - 24 hours ) .
Treatment - related developmental effects including decreased mean live fetal weights , incomplete ossifications of the skull , thoracic vertebra , sternebra , and skeletal variations ( cervical ribs , supernumerary ribs , vertebral count and sacral arch variations ) were seen in rats at the highest dose of vorinostat tested .
Reductions in mean live fetal weight and an elevated incidence of incomplete ossification of the metacarpals were seen in rabbits dosed at 150 mg / kg / day .
The no observed effect levels ( NOELs ) for these findings were 15 and 50 mg / kg / day ( < 0 . 1 times the human exposure based on AUC ) in rats and rabbits , respectively .
A dose - related increase in the incidence of malformations of the gall bladder was noted in all drug treatment groups in rabbits versus the concurrent control .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ZOLINZA or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on a breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse drug reactions in a nursing child , advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZOLINZA and for at least 1 week after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ZOLINZA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Perform pregnancy testing in females of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating therapy with ZOLINZA .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZOLINZA and for at least 6 months after the last dose .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception and to avoid fathering a child during treatment with ZOLINZA and for at least 3 months after the last dose .
Infertility Based on findings in animals , vorinostat has the potential to affect female fertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ZOLINZA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ZOLINZA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment ZOLINZA was studied in 42 patients with non - CTCL cancer and varying degrees of hepatic impairment after single and multiple - dose administration .
Compared to patients with normal liver function , AUC increases of 50 to 66 % were observed in patients with hepatic impairment .
The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia increased in patients with mild ( bilirubin of 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN and AST < ULN , or bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN ) and moderate ( bilirubin 1 . 5 to ≤ 3 × ULN ) hepatic impairment treated daily at doses of 300 and 200 mg respectively .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( bilirubin > 3 × ULN ) have not been treated at doses greater than 200 mg a day .
Reduce the initial dose of ZOLINZA in patients with bilirubin 1 to 3 × ULN or AST > ULN [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage of ZOLINZA .
In the event of overdose , it is reasonable to employ the usual supportive measures , e . g . , remove unabsorbed material from the gastrointestinal tract , employ clinical monitoring , and institute supportive therapy , if required .
It is not known if vorinostat is dialyzable .
11 DESCRIPTION ZOLINZA contains vorinostat , which is described chemically as N - hydroxy - N ' - phenyloctanediamide .
The empirical formula is C14H20N2O3 .
The molecular weight is 264 . 32 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vorinostat is a white to light orange powder .
It is very slightly soluble in water , slightly soluble in ethanol , isopropanol and acetone , freely soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and insoluble in methylene chloride .
It has no chiral centers and is non - hygroscopic .
The differential scanning calorimetry ranged from 161 . 7 ( endotherm ) to 163 . 9 ° C .
The pH of saturated water solutions of vorinostat drug substance was 6 . 6 .
The pKa of vorinostat was determined to be 9 . 2 .
Each 100 mg ZOLINZA capsule for oral administration contains 100 mg vorinostat and the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , sodium croscarmellose and magnesium stearate .
The capsule shell excipients are titanium dioxide , gelatin and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Vorinostat inhibits the enzymatic activity of histone deacetylases HDAC1 , HDAC2 and HDAC3 ( Class I ) and HDAC6 ( Class II ) at nanomolar concentrations ( IC50 < 86 nM ) .
These enzymes catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from the lysine residues of proteins , including histones and transcription factors .
In some cancer cells , there is an overexpression of HDACs , or an aberrant recruitment of HDACs to oncogenic transcription factors causing hypoacetylation of core nucleosomal histones .
Hypoacetylation of histones is associated with a condensed chromatin structure and repression of gene transcription .
Inhibition of HDAC activity allows for the accumulation of acetyl groups on the histone lysine residues resulting in an open chromatin structure and transcriptional activation .
In vitro , vorinostat causes the accumulation of acetylated histones and induces cell cycle arrest and / or apoptosis of some transformed cells .
The mechanism of the antineoplastic effect of vorinostat has not been fully characterized .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology A randomized , partially - blind , placebo - controlled , 2 - period crossover study was performed to assess the effects of a single 800 - mg dose of vorinostat on the QTc interval in 24 patients with advanced cancer .
This study was conducted to assess the impact of vorinostat on ventricular repolarization .
The upper bound of the 90 % confidence interval of the placebo - adjusted mean QTc interval change - from - baseline was less than 10 msec at every time point through 24 hours .
Based on these study results , administration of a single supratherapeutic 800 - mg dose of vorinostat does not appear to prolong the QTc interval in patients with advanced cancer ; however the study did not include a positive control to demonstrate assay sensitivity .
In the fasted state , oral administration of a single 800 - mg dose of vorinostat resulted in a mean AUC and Cmax and median Tmax of 8 . 6 ± 5 . 7 µM ∙ hr and 1 . 7 ± 0 . 67 µM and 2 . 1 ( 0 . 5 - 6 ) hours , respectively .
In clinical studies in patients with CTCL , three of 86 CTCL patients exposed to 400 mg once daily had Grade 1 ( > 450 - 470 msec ) or 2 ( > 470 - 500 msec or increase of > 60 msec above baseline ) clinical adverse reactions of QTc prolongation .
In a retrospective analysis of three Phase 1 and two Phase 2 studies , 116 patients had a baseline and at least one follow - up ECG .
Four patients had Grade 2 ( > 470 - 500 msec or increase of > 60 msec above baseline ) and 1 patient had Grade 3 ( > 500 msec ) QTc prolongation .
In 49 non - CTCL patients from 3 clinical trials who had complete evaluation of QT interval , 2 had QTc measurements of > 500 msec and 1 had a QTc prolongation of > 60 msec .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of vorinostat were evaluated in 23 patients with relapsed or refractory advanced cancer .
After oral administration of a single 400 - mg dose of vorinostat with a high - fat meal , the mean ± standard deviation area under the curve ( AUC ) and peak serum concentration ( Cmax ) and the median ( range ) time to maximum concentration ( Tmax ) were 5 . 5 ± 1 . 8 µM ∙ hr , 1 . 2 ± 0 . 62 µM and 4 ( 2 - 10 ) hours , respectively .
In the fasted state , oral administration of a single 400 - mg dose of vorinostat resulted in a mean AUC and Cmax and median Tmax of 4 . 2 ± 1 . 9 µM ∙ hr and 1 . 2 ± 0 . 35 µM and 1 . 5 ( 0 . 5 - 10 ) hours , respectively .
Therefore , oral administration of vorinostat with a high - fat meal resulted in an increase ( 33 % ) in the extent of absorption and a modest decrease in the rate of absorption ( Tmax delayed 2 . 5 hours ) compared to the fasted state .
However , these small effects are not expected to be clinically meaningful .
In clinical trials of patients with CTCL , vorinostat was taken with food .
At steady state in the fed - state , oral administration of multiple 400 - mg doses of vorinostat resulted in a mean AUC and Cmax and a median Tmax of 6 . 0 ± 2 . 0 µM ∙ hr , 1 . 2 ± 0 . 53 µM and 4 ( 0 . 5 - 14 ) hours , respectively .
Distribution Vorinostat is approximately 71 % bound to human plasma proteins over the range of concentrations of 0 . 5 to 50 µg / mL .
Metabolism The major pathways of vorinostat metabolism involve glucuronidation and hydrolysis followed by β - oxidation .
Human serum levels of two metabolites , O - glucuronide of vorinostat and 4 - anilino - 4 - oxobutanoic acid were measured .
Both metabolites are pharmacologically inactive .
Compared to vorinostat , the mean steady state serum exposures in humans of the O - glucuronide of vorinostat and 4 - anilino - 4 - oxobutanoic acid were 4 - fold and 13 - fold higher , respectively .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicate negligible biotransformation by cytochromes P450 ( CYP ) .
Excretion Vorinostat is eliminated predominantly through metabolism with less than 1 % of the dose recovered as unchanged drug in urine , indicating that renal excretion does not play a role in the elimination of vorinostat .
The mean urinary recovery of two pharmacologically inactive metabolites at steady state was 16 ± 5 . 8 % of vorinostat dose as the O - glucuronide of vorinostat , and 36 ± 8 . 6 % of vorinostat dose as 4 - anilino - 4 - oxobutanoic acid .
Total urinary recovery of vorinostat and these two metabolites averaged 52 ± 13 . 3 % of vorinostat dose .
The mean terminal half - life ( t ½ ) was ~ 2 . 0 hours for both vorinostat and the O - glucuronide metabolite , while that of the 4 - anilino - 4 - oxobutanoic acid metabolite was 11 hours .
Specific Populations Gender , Race & Age Based upon an exploratory analysis of limited data , gender , race and age do not appear to have meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of vorinostat .
Pediatric Vorinostat was not evaluated in patients < 18 years of age .
Hepatic Impairment The single dose pharmacokinetics of a 400 mg ZOLINZA dose was evaluated in patients with non - CTCL cancers with varying degrees of hepatic impairment .
The mean AUC of vorinostat in patients with mild ( bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN or AST > ULN but bilirubin ≤ ULN ) and moderate ( bilirubin 1 . 5 to ≤ 3 × ULN ) hepatic impairment increased by 50 % compared to the AUC of vorinostat in patients with normal hepatic function .
The mean vorinostat AUC in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( bilirubin > 3 × ULN ) increased by 66 % compared to the AUC of patients with normal hepatic function .
The safety of multiple daily doses of ZOLINZA was also evaluated in patients with non - CTCL cancers with varying degrees of hepatic impairment .
The highest dose studied in mild , moderate and severe hepatic impairment was 400 , 300 and 200 mg daily respectively .
The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions was similar among the hepatic function groups .
The most common Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction was thrombocytopenia .
Reduce the dose in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
There is not enough data in patients with severe hepatic impairment to recommend a dose modification [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Insufficiency Vorinostat was not evaluated in patients with renal impairment .
However , renal excretion does not play a role in the elimination of vorinostat .
Pharmacokinetic Effects of Vorinostat with Other Agents Vorinostat is not an inhibitor of CYP drug metabolizing enzymes in human liver microsomes at steady state Cmax of the 400 mg dose ( Cmax of 1 . 2 µM vs IC50 of > 75 µM ) .
Gene expression studies in human hepatocytes detected some potential for suppression of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 activities by vorinostat at concentrations higher ( ≥ 10 µM ) than pharmacologically relevant .
Thus , vorinostat is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of other agents .
As vorinostat is not eliminated via the CYP pathways , it is anticipated that vorinostat will not be subject to drug - drug interactions when co - administered with drugs that are known CYP inhibitors or inducers .
However , no formal clinical studies have been conducted to evaluate drug interactions with vorinostat .
In vitro studies indicate that vorinostat is not a substrate of human P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) .
In addition , vorinostat has no inhibitory effect on human P - gp - mediated transport of vinblastine ( a marker P - gp substrate ) at concentrations of up to 100 µM .
Thus , vorinostat is not likely to inhibit P - gp at the pharmacologically relevant serum concentration of 2 µM ( Cmax ) in humans .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with vorinostat .
Vorinostat was mutagenic in vitro in the bacterial reverse mutation assays ( Ames test ) , caused chromosomal aberrations in vitro in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells and increased the incidence of micro - nucleated erythrocytes when administered to mice ( Mouse Micronucleus Assay ) .
Treatment - related effects on female reproduction were identified in the oral fertility study when females were dosed for 14 days prior to mating through gestational day 7 .
Doses of 15 , 50 and 150 mg / kg / day to rats resulted in approximate exposures of 0 . 15 , 0 . 36 and 0 . 70 times the expected clinical exposure based on AUC .
Dose - dependent increases in corpora lutea were noted at ≥ 15 mg / kg / day , which resulted in increased peri - implantation losses at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day .
At 150 mg / kg / day , there were increases in the incidences of dead fetuses and in resorptions .
No effects on reproductive performance or fertility were observed in male rats dosed ( 20 , 50 , 150 mg / kg / day ; approximate exposures of 0 . 15 , 0 . 36 and 0 . 70 times the expected clinical exposure based on AUC ) for 70 days prior to mating with untreated females .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Cutaneous T - cell Lymphoma In two open - label clinical studies , patients with refractory CTCL have been evaluated to determine their response rate to oral ZOLINZA .
One study was a single - arm clinical study and the other assessed several dosing regimens .
In both studies , patients were treated until disease progression or intolerable toxicity .
Study 1 In an open - label , single - arm , multicenter non - randomized study ( NCT00091559 ) , 74 patients with advanced CTCL were treated with ZOLINZA at a dose of 400 mg once daily .
The primary endpoint was response rate to oral ZOLINZA in the treatment of skin disease in patients with advanced CTCL ( Stage IIB and higher ) who had progressive , persistent , or recurrent disease on or following two systemic therapies .
Enrolled patients should have received , been intolerant to or not a candidate for bexarotene .
Extent of skin disease was quantitatively assessed by investigators using a modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool ( SWAT ) .
The investigator measured the percentage total body surface area ( % TBSA ) involvement separately for patches , plaques , and tumors within 12 body regions using the patient ' s palm as a " ruler " .
The total % TBSA for each lesion type was multiplied by a severity weighting factor ( 1 = patch , 2 = plaque and 4 = tumor ) and summed to derive the SWAT score .
Efficacy was measured as either a Complete Clinical Response ( CCR ) defined as no evidence of disease , or Partial Response ( PR ) defined as a ≥ 50 % decrease in SWAT skin assessment score compared to baseline .
Both CCR and PR had to be maintained for at least 4 weeks .
Secondary efficacy endpoints included response duration , time to progression , and time to objective response .
The population had been exposed to a median of three prior therapies ( range 1 to 12 ) .
Table 2 summarizes the demographic and disease characteristics of the Study 1 population .
Table 2 : Baseline Patient Characteristics ( All Patients As Treated ) Characteristics Vorinostat ( N = 74 ) Age ( year ) Mean ( SD ) 61 . 2 ( 11 . 3 ) Median ( Range ) 60 . 0 ( 39 . 0 , 83 . 0 ) Gender , n ( % ) Male 38 ( 51 . 4 % ) Female 36 ( 48 . 6 % ) CTCL stage , n ( % ) IB 11 ( 14 . 9 % ) IIA 2 ( 2 . 7 % ) IIB 19 ( 25 . 7 % ) III 22 ( 29 . 7 % ) IVA 16 ( 21 . 6 % ) IVB 4 ( 5 . 4 % ) Racial Origin , n ( % ) Asian 1 ( 1 . 4 % ) Black 11 ( 14 . 9 % ) Other 1 ( 1 . 4 % ) White 61 ( 82 . 4 % ) Time from Initial CTCL Diagnosis ( year ) Median ( Range ) 2 . 6 ( 0 . 0 , 27 . 3 ) Clinical Characteristics Number of prior systemic treatments , median ( range ) 3 . 0 ( 1 . 0 , 12 . 0 ) The overall objective response rate was 29 . 7 % ( 22 / 74 , 95 % CI [ 19 . 7 to 41 . 5 % ] ) in all patients treated with ZOLINZA .
In patients with Stage IIB and higher CTCL , the overall objective response rate was 29 . 5 % ( 18 / 61 ) .
One patient with Stage IIB CTCL achieved a CCR .
Median times to response were 55 and 56 days ( range 28 to 171 days ) , respectively in the overall population and in patients with Stage IIB and higher CTCL .
However , in rare cases it took up to 6 months for patients to achieve an objective response to ZOLINZA .
The median response duration was not reached since the majority of responses continued at the time of analysis , but was estimated to exceed 6 months for both the overall population and in patients with Stage IIB and higher CTCL .
When end of response was defined as a 50 % increase in SWAT score from the nadir , the estimated median response duration was 168 days and the median time to tumor progression was 202 days .
Using a 25 % increase in SWAT score from the nadir as criterion for tumor progression , the estimated median time - to - progression was 148 days for the overall population and 169 days in the 61 patients with Stage IIB and higher CTCL .
Response to any previous systemic therapy does not appear to be predictive of response to ZOLINZA .
Study 2 In an open - label , non - randomized study , ZOLINZA was evaluated to determine the response rate for patients with CTCL who were refractory or intolerant to at least one treatment .
In this study , 33 patients were assigned to one of 3 cohorts : Cohort 1 , 400 mg once daily ; Cohort 2 , 300 mg twice daily 3 days / week ; or Cohort 3 , 300 mg twice daily for 14 days followed by a 7 - day rest ( induction ) .
In Cohort 3 , if at least a partial response was not observed then patients were dosed with a maintenance regimen of 200 mg twice daily .
The primary efficacy endpoint , objective response , was measured by the 7 - point Physician ' s Global Assessment ( PGA ) scale .
The investigator assessed improvement or worsening in overall disease compared to baseline based on overall clinical impression .
Index and non - index cutaneous lesions as well as cutaneous tumors , lymph nodes and all other disease manifestations were also assessed and included in the overall clinical impression .
CCR required 100 % clearing of all findings , and PR required at least 50 % improvement in disease findings .
The median age was 67 . 0 years ( range 26 . 0 to 82 . 0 ) .
Fifty - five percent of patients were male , and 45 % of patients were female .
Fifteen percent of patients had Stage IA , IB , or IIA CTCL and 85 % of patients had Stage IIB , III , IVA , or IVB CTCL .
The median number of prior systemic therapies was 4 ( range 0 . 0 to 11 . 0 ) .
In all patients treated , the objective response was 24 . 2 % ( 8 / 33 ) in the overall population , 25 % ( 7 / 28 ) in patients with Stage IIB or higher disease and 36 . 4 % ( 4 / 11 ) in patients with Sezary syndrome .
The overall response rates were 30 . 8 % , 9 . 1 % and 33 . 3 % in Cohort 1 , Cohort 2 and Cohort 3 , respectively .
The 300 mg twice daily regimen had higher toxicity with no additional clinical benefit over the 400 mg once daily regimen .
No CCR was observed .
Among the 8 patients who responded to study treatment , the median time to response was 83 . 5 days ( range 25 to 153 days ) .
The median response duration was 106 days ( range 66 to 136 days ) .
Median time to progression was 211 . 5 days ( range 94 to 255 days ) .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
" OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
[ http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ZOLINZA capsules , 100 mg , are white , opaque hard gelatin capsules with " 568 " over " 100 mg " printed within the radial bar in black ink on the capsule body .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 0006 - 0568 - 40 .
Each bottle contains 120 capsules .
Storage and Handling Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
ZOLINZA ( vorinostat ) capsules should not be opened or crushed .
Direct contact of the powder in ZOLINZA capsules with the skin or mucous membranes should be avoided .
If such contact occurs , wash thoroughly as outlined in the references .
Personnel should avoid exposure to crushed and / or broken capsules [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Patients should be instructed to drink at least 2 L / day of fluid to prevent dehydration and should promptly report excessive vomiting or diarrhea to their physician .
Patients should be instructed about the signs of deep vein thrombosis and should consult their physician should any evidence of deep vein thrombosis develop .
Patients receiving ZOLINZA should seek immediate medical attention if unusual bleeding occurs .
ZOLINZA capsules should not be opened or crushed .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise patients that ZOLINZA can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZOLINZA and for at least 6 months after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception and to avoid fathering a child during treatment with ZOLINZA and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZOLINZA and for at least 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manuf .
for : Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC Rahway , NJ 07065 , USA Manufactured by : Patheon , Inc .
Mississauga , Ontario , Canada L5N 7K9 For patent information : www . msd . com / research / patent Copyright © 2006 - 2022 Merck & Co . , Inc . , Rahway , NJ , USA , and its affiliates .
All rights reserved .
uspi - mk0683 - c - 2207r010 Patient Information ZOLINZA ® ( zo LINZ ah ) ( vorinostat ) capsules What is ZOLINZA ?
ZOLINZA is a prescription medicine for a type of cancer called cutaneous T - cell lymphoma ( CTCL ) , which is a blood cell cancer that affects your skin .
ZOLINZA is used when your CTCL gets worse , does not go away , or comes back after you have taken other medicines .
What you need to know about ZOLINZA • Before you take this medicine , be sure you understand what it is used for and how to take it safely .
• Keep this information .
• If you have questions about this medicine , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
• Every time you get a refill , look at the Patient Information .
There may be new information .
It is not known if ZOLINZA is safe and effective in children .
Should I take ZOLINZA ?
Pregnancy • ZOLINZA has not been studied in pregnant women .
It can hurt your baby while you are pregnant .
• Women of childbearing potential ( women who can become pregnant and bear children ) should use contraception while taking ZOLINZA and for up to 6 months after the last dose .
Please speak with your doctor .
• Men who have female partners who can become pregnant and bear children , should use contraception while taking ZOLINZA and for up to 3 months after taking the last dose .
Please speak with your doctor .
Breastfeeding • We do not know if ZOLINZA can pass into breast milk .
• Women should not breastfeed while using ZOLINZA and for up to 1 week after the last dose .
Please speak with your doctor .
Diabetes • If you are taking ZOLINZA and have high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) or diabetes , your doctor may need to change your diet or diabetes medicine to help control your blood sugar .
• Check your blood sugar as often as your doctor tells you to .
• If your blood sugar is higher than normal , call your doctor .
• If you cannot eat or drink like you usually do because you feel sick , vomit , or have diarrhea , call your doctor .
If you have any of these conditions , tell your doctor before taking ZOLINZA : • a blood clot in your lung ( called a Pulmonary Embolus or PE ) • a blood clot in a vein or blood vessel ( called Deep Vein Thrombosis or DVT ) • high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) or diabetes • liver disease • nausea , vomiting or diarrhea • any allergies Are you taking other medicines ?
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Other medicines can affect the way ZOLINZA works .
Your doctor may want to do blood tests more often if you take : • valproic acid , a medicine for seizures • a blood thinner , like Coumadin ® ( warfarin ) How do I take ZOLINZA ?
• Take ZOLINZA exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Your doctor will tell you how many capsules to take , and when to take them .
• Take with food .
• Drink 8 glasses of water every day ( at least 8 ounces each ) .
This will help to keep you hydrated , especially if you have nausea , vomiting or diarrhea .
• Do not chew or break open the capsule .
If you break open or crush a capsule , do not touch the capsule or powder .
If the powder gets on your skin or in your eyes , wash your skin or eyes with lots of water right away .
Then , call your doctor .
• If you cannot swallow the capsule , tell your doctor .
You may need a different medicine .
What if I forget to take ZOLINZA ?
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If you do not remember until it is almost time for your next dose , just skip the missed dose and take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take two doses of ZOLINZA at the same time .
• If you are not sure what to do , call your doctor .
• If you take more than your prescribed dose , call your doctor , poison center , or emergency room right away .
ZOLINZA may cause serious side effects If you have any of the following signs or symptoms , tell your doctor right away .
Signs of a blood clot in your legs - Deep Vein Thrombosis or DVT • Your leg swells up or feels warm • Your leg hurts or feels very tender • Your leg hurts when you stand or walk • Your skin turns red or changes color Signs of a blood clot in your lungs - Pulmonary Embolus or PE • You have sudden , sharp chest pain • You feel short of breath • You cough up blood • You start sweating • Your heart is beating very fast • You feel like you might pass out • You feel very anxious Signs of losing too much fluid from your body - dehydration You can become dehydrated if you cannot eat or drink like you usually do .
This can happen when you feel sick , vomit , or have diarrhea .
Call your doctor if you get any of these signs or symptoms : • Your mouth is dry • You are sleepier than usual • Your skin is dry • You feel dizzy or lightheaded Changes in your blood Your doctor will check your blood during treatment with ZOLINZA .
Here is a list of some side effects that may mean you have a change in your blood : • You feel more tired than usual • You have bleeding or your skin is bruising easily • You have high blood sugar ( you may feel more hungry or thirsty , you may urinate more often than usual ) • You look pale • You feel short of breath Common side effects of ZOLINZA • Diarrhea • Constipation • Nausea • Vomiting • Not hungry • Losing weight • Dry mouth • Losing hair • Change in the way things taste • Muscle aches • Itchy skin • Feeling tired • Feeling dizzy • Swelling in the foot , ankle , and leg • Cold • Cough • Chills • Fever • Headaches If you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away , tell your doctor .
There may be other side effects to ZOLINZA that are not listed .
For information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Where should I keep ZOLINZA ?
• Do not let your medicine get really cold or really hot .
Keep it at room temperature .
• Keep ZOLINZA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
More information about ZOLINZA • Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the patient information .
Do not use ZOLINZA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ZOLINZA to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them .
• This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about ZOLINZA .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor or pharmacist .
You can ask them for information about ZOLINZA that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , call the company that makes ZOLINZA at 1 - 800 - 622 - 4477 .
What are the ingredients in ZOLINZA ?
The active ingredient is : vorinostat The inactive ingredients are : microcrystalline cellulose , sodium croscarmellose , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , gelatin , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC Rahway , NJ 07065 , USA Manufactured by : Patheon , Inc . , Mississauga , Ontario , Canada L5N 7K9 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 07 / 2022 For patent information : www . msd . com / research / patent Copyright © 2006 - 2022 Merck & Co . , Inc . , Rahway , NJ , USA , and its affiliates .
All rights reserved .
usppi - mk0683 - c - 2207r009 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 0006 - 0568 - 40 Zolinza ® ( vorinostat ) capsules 100 mg Direct contact of the powder in ZOLINZA capsules with the skin or mucous membranes should be avoided .
( See Package Insert . )
Rx only 120 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
