Active Ingredient ( in each Tablespoon ) Monobasic Sodium Phosphate 7 . 2 g .................
Saline Laxative / Bowel Cleanser Dibasic Sodium Phosphate 2 . 7 g ......................
Saline Laxative / Bowel Cleanser Uses • relief of occasional constipation • to help clean out the bowel before medical procedures Taking more than the recommended dose in 24 hours can be harmful .
Do not use • if you have congestive heart failure • if you have serious kidney problems • in children under 5 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you are • under a doctor ' s care for any medical condition • on a low salt diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other prescription or non - prescription drugs .
Ask a doctor before using any laxative if you have • abdominal ( belly ) pain , nausea , or vomitting • a change in your daily bowel movements that lasts more than 2 weeks • already used another laxative daily for constipation for more than 1 week Stop use and ask a doctor if you • have any rectal bleeding • do not have a bowel movement within 6 hours of taking this product • have any symptoms that your body is losing more fluids than you are drinking .
This is called dehydration .
Early symptoms of dehydration include - feeling thristy - dizziness - urinating less often than normal - vomiting These symptoms may be signs of serious problems .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Laxative Dose and Directions Ages ( years ) Step 1 Step 2 24 Hour Max Dose * 12 years & older Mix 1 tablespoon in a full glass of cold liquid ( 8 fl oz ) .
Drink Drink at least 1 extra full glass of liquid ( 8 fl oz ) .
3 tablespoons 10 to 11 years Mix 1 tablespoon in a full glass of cold liquid ( 8 fl oz ) .
Drink Drink at least 1 extra full glass of liquid ( 8 fl oz ) .
1 tablespoon 5 to 9 years Mix 1 / 2 tablespoon in a full glass of cold liquid ( 8 fl oz ) .
Drink Drink at least 1 extra full glass of liquid ( 8 fl oz ) .
1 / 2 tablespoon Under 5 years Do Not Use Do Not Use Do Not Use * Take no more than this amount in a 24 hour period .
Use as a laxative for relief of occasional constipation .
• follow the dose and directions .
• do not take more unless directed by a doctor .
See Warnings .
• drink as much extra liquids as you can to help replace the fluids you are losing during bowel movements .
Other Information • 1 tablespoon contains : sodium 1668 mg • this product is sugar - free • this product usually causes a person to have a bowel movement in 30 minutes to 6 hours • chill this product in refrigerator to improve the taste .
Do not freeze Inactive Ingredients glycerin , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate Questions ?
1 - 888 - 999 - 9711 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
