Active ingredient Avobenzone , 2 . 0 % Oclisalate , 5 . 0 % Octocrylene , 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • • Children under 6 months : ask a doctor Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , cyclopentasiloxane , glycerin , titanium dioxide , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , beeswax , myristyl myristate , stearic acid , palmitic acid , polyglyceryl - 10 pentastearate , behenyl alcohol , sodium steroyl lactylate , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , butylene glycol , carbomer , polysorbate 20 , palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , hydrolyzed soy protein , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , fragrance , triethanolamine , glycine soja ( soybean ) protein , xanthan gum , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A ) , phenoxyethanol , PEG - 20 stearate , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , phenethyl alcohol , alcohol denat . , chlorphenesin .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel - Carton Label CVS pharmacy ™ anti - wrinkle & firming day cream SPF 18 Broad Spectrum SPF 18 Sunscreen Anti - wrinkle & firming moisturizer With retinol encapsulated provitamin A & tetrapepitide complex Smooths & firms skin Compare to L ’ Oreal ® Revitalift ® Anti - Wrinkle + Firming Day Cream * NET WT 1 . 7 OZ ( 49 g ) CVS / pharmacy ™ Anti - Wrinkle & Firming Day Cream is uniquely formulated to smooth away the appearance of wrinkles and visibly improve the look of firmer skin .
As we age , essential elastin fibers decrease and skin loses its firmness while wrinkles become more visible .
The retinol encapsulated provitamin A and Tetrapeptide Complex help to reduce the appearance of wrinkles , and are specially formulated to provide sun protection and 24 - hour moisturization .
It ’ s non - greasy and is dermatologist tested for gentleness .
Advanced Anti - Wrinkle Action Retinol encapsulated provitamin A helps skin renewal , reducing the look of fine lines and wrinkles .
Results can be seen in just two weeks .
This technology continuously acts to fight the signs of aging , minimizing the appearance of dark circles and puffiness .
Innovative Firming The Tetrapeptide Complex has proven to show improved elastin fibers .
† Skin ’ s surface appears more resilient and toned .
Continuous Moisturization & Skin Protection 24 - hour moisturization helps soothe dry skin , and leaves skin looking radiant and revitalized .
Broad spectrum UVA / UVB SPF 18 protects the skin and prevents skin damage by UV exposure .
† In - vitro testing * This product is not manufactured or distributed by L ’ Oreal USA , Inc . , owner of the registered trademarks L ’ Oreal ® and Revitalift ® .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2014 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in Israel V - 31442 CVS ® Quality Money Back Guarantee [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Carton Label – Front [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Carton Label - Back [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
