DESCRIPTION NDC 43093 - 105 - 01 Rx only FusePaq ™ FANATREX ™ ( gabapentin 25 mg / mL , in oral suspension - kit ) FusePaq ™ kits provide a convenient approach to rapidly prepare prescription medications , as all components are pre - measured .
This kit is manufactured according to US FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices ( cGMP ) .
Description : This kit contains active and inactive bulk materials to prepare 420 mL of a gabapentin oral suspension containing 25 mg / mL gabapentin .
This kit may only be used for the extemporaneous mixing of these ingredients by an appropriate licensed medical professional , in response to a physician ' s prescription , to create a medication tailored to the specialized needs of an individual patient .
Contents : • 10 . 5 g gabapentin , USP • 420 mL oral suspension vehicle ( water , banana flavor , N - acetyl - D - glucosamine , strawberry flavor , marshmallow flavor , glycerin , stevia powder , acesulfame potassium , xanthan gum , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , potassium sorbate , dibasic sodium phosphate ) • Disposable funnel • Press - in bottle adaptor for oral dispenser • Oral dispenser • Instructions SUGGESTED PREPARATION Suggested Preparation Gabapentin , 25 mg / mL oral suspension 1 Remove and Inspect the Contents of the Kit Remove kit contents .
Ensure that seals are present and intact on the gabapentin and oral suspension vehicle bottles .
If the seals are not intact , do not use the kit .
2 Prepare for Mixing Wear gloves and eye protection during mixing operations .
Remove the seal from the oral suspension bottle .
Break the seal and remove the cap from the gabapentin bottle .
3 Transfer Gabapentin to the Suspension Bottle Uncap the suspension bottle .
Using the included funnel , carefully transfer the gabapentin powder to the suspension bottle .
Cap the suspension bottle and mix thoroughly by inverting and shaking until all contents are dissolved .
Uncap the suspension bottle .
Pour a small amount of the mixed suspension back into the gabapentin bottle .
Cap the gabapentin bottle and shake to ensure that all residual gabapentin has been dissolved .
Pour the liquid through the funnel into the suspension bottle .
Discard the funnel and gabapentin powder bottle .
4 Complete the Mixing Process Insert the press - in bottle adaptor into the suspension bottle .
Recap the suspension bottle .
Mix well by inverting repeatedly several times .
Visually ensure that all contents are dissolved .
5 Re - label the Suspension Label the mixed suspension as required for prescription products .
Ensure that the original oral suspension vehicle label is removed or obscured , since the original label is no longer accurate once the suspension is prepared .
Store the unused kit at room temperature of 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Once prepared , store the mixed suspension between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
The mixed suspension is stable for at least eight weeks , based upon real - time and accelerated stability studies .
Each lot of suspension vehicle is tested to meet microbial limits per USP Microbial Limit Test < 61 > .
In addition , the suspension vehicle formulation has passed the USP < 51 > Antimicrobial Effectiveness Test .
An oral dispenser is provided in the kit and may be used to facilitate delivery of the suspension .
U . S . Patents Pending Manufactured by : Fusion Pharmaceuticals , LLC 768 Calle Plano Camarillo , CA 93012 CS75 - A1 rev 0 DRUG BOTTLE LABEL Do not use if safety seal is broken Gabapentin 1 - ( Aminomethyl ) cyclohexaneacetic acid CAS # 60142 - 96 - 3 CAUTION : For manufacturing , processing , repacking , or prescription compounding Net contents : 10 . 5 g Repackaged by Fusion Pharmaceuticals , LLC Camarillo , CA 93012 CS73 - A1 rev 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SUSPENSION BOTTLE LABEL Do not use if safety seal is broken For Prescription Compounding Only Oral Suspension Vehicle Dye and paraben free Ingredients : water , banana flavor , N - acetyl - D - glucosamine , strawberry flavor , marshmallow flavor , glycerin , stevia powder , acesulfame potassium , xanthan gum , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , sodium saccharin , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , dibasic sodium phosphate Net Contents : 420 mL ( 14 . 2 fl oz ) Manufactured for : Fusion Pharmaceuticals , LLC Camarillo , CA 93012 CS74 - A1 rev 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Box Label Do not use if safety seal is broken NDC 43093 - 105 - 01 Rx only FusePaq ™ Kit for Oral Suspension Fanatrex ™ ( gabapentin 25 mg / mL , in oral suspension - kit ) Description : This kit contains active and inactive bulk materials to prepare 420 mL of a gabapentin oral suspension containing 25 mg / mL gabapentin .
This kit may only be used for the extemporaneous mixing of these ingredients by an appropriate licensed medical professional , in response to a physician ' s prescription , to create a medication tailored to the specialized needs of an individual patient .
Active Ingredient : • 10 . 5 g gabapentin , USP Inactive Ingredients : • 420 mL oral suspension vehicle ( water , banana flavor , N - acetyl - D - glucosamine , strawberry flavor , marshmallow flavor , glycerin , stevia powder , acesulfame potassium , xanthan gum , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , sodium saccharin , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , dibasic sodium phosphate ) • Disposable funnel • Press - in bottle adaptor for oral dispenser • Oral dispenser • Instructions CAUTION : For manufacturing , processing , repacking , or presciption compounding .
Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
U . S . Patents Pending CS72 - A1 rev 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
