Principal Display Panel Do not use if safety seal is broken NDC 43093 - 104 - 01 Rx only FusePaq ™ Oral Suspension Kit DICOPANOL ™ ( diphenhydramine hydrochloride 5 mg / mL , in oral suspension kit ) Description : This kit contains active and inactive bulk materials to prepare 150 mL of a diphenhydramine hydrochloride oral suspension containing 5 mg / mL diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
This kit may only be used for the extemporaneous combining of these ingredients by an appropriate licensed medical professional in response to a physician ' s prescription to create a medication tailored to the specialized needs of an individual patient .
Active Ingredient : • 0 . 75 g diphenhydramine hydrochloride , USP Inactive Ingredients : • 150 mL oral suspension vehicle ( water , glycerin , xylitol , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , pineapple flavor , xanthan gum , stevia powder , orange flavor , citric acid , sodium citrate , melatonin , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate ) • Press - in bottle adaptor for oral dispenser • Oral dispenser • Instructions Store kit at room temperature , 15 - 30 degrees C ( 59 - 86 degrees F ) U . S . Patents Pending FUSION PHARMACEUTICALS 786 Calle Plano Camarillo CA 93012 CS68 - A1 rev 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Label Do not use if safety seal is broken Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Ethanamine , 2 - ( diphenylmethoxy ) - N , N - dimethyl - , hydrochloride Rx Only CAS # 147 - 24 - 0 Net contents : 0 . 75 g Repackaged by : Fusion Pharmaceuticals , LLC Camarillo , CA 93012 CS65 - A1 rev 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Suspension Label Do not use if safety seal is broken Oral Suspension Vehicle Sugar , dye , and paraben free Ingredients : water , glycerin , xylitol , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , pineapple flavor , xanthan gum , stevia powder , orange flavor , citric acid , sodium citrate , melatonin , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate Net Contents : 150 mL ( 5 . 1 fl oz ) Manufactured for : Fusion Pharmaceuticals , LLC Camarillo , CA 93012 CS66 - A1 rev 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions Insert NDC 43093 - 104 - 01 Rx Only FusePaq tm DICOPANOL tm ( diphenhydramine hydrochloride 5 mg / mL , oral suspension - kit ) FusePaq tm kits provide a convenient approach to rapidly create prescription medications , as all components are pre - measured .
This kit is manufactures according to US FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice ( cGMP ) .
Description : This kit contains active and inactive bulk materials to create a diphenhydramine hydrochloride oral suspension .
These instructions describe how to prepare 150 mL of oral suspension containing 5 mg / mL diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
Other concentrations are possible .
Exact strength of the resulting final suspension must be defined by the prescriber .
Contents : - 0 . 75 g diphenhydramine hydrochloride , USP - 150 mL oral suspension vehicle ( water , glycerin , xylitol , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , pineapple flavor , xanthan gum , stevia powder , orange flavor , citric acid , sodium citrate , melatonin , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate ) Instructions for the Pharmacist Diphenhydramine hydrochloride , 5 mg / mL oral suspension 1 Remove and Inspect the Contents of the Kit Ensure that the safety seals are present and intact on the diphenhydramine hydrochloride and oral suspension vehicle bottles .
If the seals are not intact , do not use the kit .
2 Prepare for Combining Wear gloves and eye protection during combining operations .
Remove the seal from the oral suspension bottle .
Break the perforated seal and remove the cap from the diphenhydramine hydrochloride bottle .
3 Transfer Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride to the Suspension Bottle Uncap the suspension bottle .
Pour a small amount of suspension liquid ( approximately one - third to one - half the volume of the diphenhydramine hydrochloride bottle ) into the diphenhydramine hydrochloride bottle .
Cap the diphenhydramine hydrochloride bottle and shake well several times to dissolve the diphenhydramine hydrochloride powder .
Empty the contents into the suspension bottle .
Cap and combine the suspension bottle .
Repeat this step 3 times .
Visually ensure that all of the diphenhydramine hydrochloride has been dissolved and transferred to the suspension bottle .
4 Complete the Combining Process Insert the press - in bottle adaptor into the suspension bottle .
Recap the suspension bottle .
Shake well by inverting repeatedly several times .
5 Re - label the Resulting Final Suspension Label the resulting final suspension per the pharmacy ' s standard practice .
Remove or obscure the oral suspension vehicle label , since the label is no longer accurate once the resulting final suspension is completed .
Store the unused kit at room temperature of 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Once prepared , store the resulting final suspension between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
The resulting final suspension is stable for at least eight weeks , based upon real - time and accelerated stability studies .
Each lot of suspension vehicle is tested to meet microbial limits per USP Microbial Limit Test 61 .
In addition , the suspension vehicle formulation has passed the USP 51 Antimicrobial Effectiveness Test .
An oral dispenser is provided in the kit and may be used to facilitate delivery of the suspension .
U . S . Patents Pending Manufactured by : Fusion Pharmaceuticals , LLC 768 Calle Plano Camarillo , CA 93012 CS67 - A1 rev 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
