[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION : INGREDIENTS : Each gram of Urea Cream 40 % contains Urea 40 % and the following inactive ingredients : Carbomer , Cetearyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Mineral Oil , Purified Water , White Petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics : The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS : This product is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , xerosis , ichthyosis , skin cracks and fissures , dermatitis , eczema , psoriasis , keratoses and calluses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS : FOREXTERNALUSEONLY . NOTFOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
General : This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the use of this product .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Use as directed by your physician .
See label booklet for full Prescribing Information .
STORAGE : Store at room temperature 15 째 C - 30 째 C ( 59 째 F - 86 째 F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED : This product is supplied in the following size : 1 oz NDC 63629 - 9265 - 1 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 877 - 250 - 3427 To report a serious adverse event , please contact Method Pharmaceuticals at ( 877 ) 250 - 3427 ; email at contact @ methodpharm . com ; or call FDA at ( 800 ) FDA - 1088 .
Urea Cream 40 % # 28 . 35 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
