Dosage and Administration 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing Glimepiride tablets should be administered with breakfast or the first main meal of the day .
The recommended starting dose of glimepiride tablet is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily .
Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia ( e . g . , the elderly or patients with renal impairment ) should be started on 1 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
After reaching a daily dose of 2 mg , further dose increases can be made in increments of 1 mg or 2 mg based upon the patient ’ s glycemic response .
Uptitration should not occur more frequently than every 1 to 2 weeks .
A conservative titration scheme is recommended for patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
The maximum recommended dose is 8 mg once daily .
Patients being transferred to glimepiride from longer half - life sulfonylureas ( e . g . , chlorpropamide ) may have overlapping drug effect for 1 to 2 weeks and should be appropriately monitored for hypoglycemia .
When colesevelam is coadministered with glimepiride , maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glimepiride is reduced .
Therefore , glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam .
Dosage Forms and Strengths Glimepiride tablet is formulated as tablets of : 1 mg tablets ( pink coloured , oval shaped , biconvex , uncoated tablets debossed with ‘ AHI 1 ’ on one side and break line on the other ) 2 mg tablets ( green coloured , oval shaped , biconvex , uncoated tablets debossed with ‘ AHI 2 ’ on one side and break line on the other ) 4 mg tablets ( blue coloured , oval shaped , biconvex , uncoated tablets debossed with ‘ AHI 4 ’ on one side and break line on the other ) Contraindications Glimepiride tablet is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to : Glimepiride or any of the product ’ s ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Sulfonamide derivatives : Patients who have developed an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives may develop an allergic reaction to glimepiride .
Do not use glimepiride in patients who have a history of an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives .
Reported hypersensitivity reactions include cutaneous eruptions with or without pruritus as well as more serious reactions ( e . g . anaphylaxis , angioedema , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , dyspnea ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Warnings and Precautions Drug Interactions Use in Specific Populations Overdosage • Description • Clinical Pharmacology • Nonclinical Toxicology • Clinical Studies • Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Indications and Usage • Adverse Reactions The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling : Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] In clinical trials , the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia , dizziness , asthenia , headache , and nausea .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Approximately 2 , 800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials .
In these trials , approximately 1 , 700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year .
Table 1 summarizes adverse events , other than hypoglycemia , that were reported in 11 pooled placebo - controlled trials , whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication .
Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months .
Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of ≥ 5 % among glimepiride - treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo .
Hypoglycemia : In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration , patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3 - week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg , 4 mg , 8 mg or placebo .
Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced - titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses , as tolerated [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia ( defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia ; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required ) was 4 % for glimepiride 1 mg , 17 % for glimepiride 4 mg , 16 % for glimepiride 8 mg and 0 % for placebo .
All of these events were self - treated .
In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration , patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily .
The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg / dL .
Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 or 8 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia ( as defined above for the 14 - week trial ) for glimepiride vs . placebo was 19 . 7 % vs . 3 . 2 % .
All of these events were self - treated .
Weight gain : glimepiride , like all sulfonylureas , can cause weight gain [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Allergic Reactions : In clinical trials , allergic reactions , such as pruritus , erythema , urticaria , and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions , occurred in less than 1 % of glimepiride - treated patients .
These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride .
There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions ( e . g . , dyspnea , hypotension , shock ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Laboratory Tests : Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase ( ALT ) : ) : In 11 pooled placebo - controlled trials of glimepiride , 1 . 9 % of glimepiride - treated patients and 0 . 8 % of placebo - treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of glimepiride .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and Stevens - Johnson Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Impairment of liver function ( e . g . with cholestasis and jaundice ) , as well as hepatitis , which may progress to liver failure .
Porphyria cutanea tarda , photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia ( including severe cases with platelet count less than 10 , 000 / μL ) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram - like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( SIADH ) , most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone • to report suspected adverse reactions call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 [ 1 ] [ 1 ] to report suspected adverse reactions call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088
