Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Uses • ▪ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • ▪ temporarily relieves : • ▪ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • ▪ the intensity of coughing • ▪ the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • ▪ if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • ▪ cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 2222 .
Directions • ▪ do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided • ▪ do not use dosing cup with other products • ▪ dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • ▪ mL = milliliter • ▪ adults and children 12 years and older : 20 mL every 4 hours • ▪ children under 12 years of age : Do not use Other information • • each 20 mL contains : sodium 8 mg • • low sodium • • store at room temperature • • do not refrigerate • • dosing cup provided Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , propyl gallate , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC # 41250 - 748 - 06 * Compare to Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® DM max active ingredients * mucus relief DM • Dextromethorphan HBr / Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin / Expectorant Maximum Strength • • Controls Cough • • Relieves Chest Congestion • • Thins & Loosens Mucus • • 4 Hour Dosing For Ages 12 + 6 FL OZ ( 180 mL ) Tamper evident : Do not use if printed inner seal under cap is broken or missing .
DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt BRB Health ( US ) LLC , owner of the registered trademark Mucinex ® and Fast - Max ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
