Dosage and Administration , Dosing ( 2 . 1 ) 02 / 2018 Dosage and Administration , Preparation & Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 02 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Makena is a progestin indicated to reduce the risk of preterm birth in women with a singleton pregnancy who have a history of singleton spontaneous preterm birth .
The effectiveness of Makena is based on improvement in the proportion of women who delivered < 37 weeks of gestation .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating a direct clinical benefit , such as improvement in neonatal mortality and morbidity .
Limitation of use : While there are many risk factors for preterm birth , safety and efficacy of Makena has been demonstrated only in women with a prior spontaneous singleton preterm birth .
It is not intended for use in women with multiple gestations or other risk factors for preterm birth .
Makena is a progestin indicated to reduce the risk of preterm birth in women with a singleton pregnancy who have a history of singleton spontaneous preterm birth ( 1 ) .
The effectiveness of Makena is based on improvement in the proportion of women who delivered < 37 weeks of gestation ( 14 ) .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating a direct clinical benefit , such as improvement in neonatal mortality and morbidity .
Limitation of use : Makena is not intended for use in women with multiple gestations or other risk factors for preterm birth .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Makena auto - injector : Administer subcutaneously using Makena auto - injector at a dose of 275 mg ( 1 . 1 mL ) once weekly , in the back of either upper arm ( 2 . 1 ) • • Makena ( single - and multi - dose vials ) : Administer intramuscularly at a dose of 250 mg ( 1 mL ) once weekly in the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus ( 2 . 1 ) • • Begin treatment between 16 weeks , 0 days and 20 weeks , 6 days of gestation ( 2 . 1 ) • • Continue administration once weekly until week 37 ( through 36 weeks , 6 days ) of gestation or delivery , whichever occurs first ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing • • Makena auto - injector : Administer subcutaneously using auto - injector at a dose of 275 mg ( 1 . 1 mL ) once weekly ( every 7 days ) in the back of either upper arm by a healthcare provider • • Makena ( single - and multi - dose vials ) : Administer intramuscularly at a dose of 250 mg ( 1 mL ) once weekly ( every 7 days ) in the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus by a healthcare provider • • Begin treatment between 16 weeks , 0 days and 20 weeks , 6 days of gestation • • Continue administration once weekly until week 37 ( through 36 weeks , 6 days ) of gestation or delivery , whichever occurs first 2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Makena is a clear , yellow solution .
The solution must be clear at the time of use ; replace vial if visible particles or crystals are present .
Specific instructions for administration by dosage form : Makena single - dose or multi - dose vials ( intramuscular use only ) Makena single - dose or multi - dose vials are only for intramuscular injection with a syringe into the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus , rotating the injection site to the alternate side from the previous week , using the following preparation and administration procedure : • 1 .
Clean the vial top with an alcohol swab before use .
• 2 .
Draw up 1 mL of drug into a 3 mL syringe with an 18 gauge needle .
• 3 .
Change the needle to a 21 gauge 1 ½ inch needle .
• 4 .
After preparing the skin , inject in the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus .
The solution is viscous and oily .
Slow injection ( over one minute or longer ) is recommended .
• 5 .
Applying pressure to the injection site may minimize bruising and swelling .
If the 5 mL multi - dose vial is used , discard any unused product 5 weeks after first use .
Makena auto - injector ( subcutaneous use only ) Makena auto - injector is a single - use , pre - filled , disposable device containing a 27 gauge , 0 . 5 inch needle that delivers one dose subcutaneously in the back of the upper arm .
Because Makena auto - injector is preservative - free , once the cap is removed the device should be used immediately or discarded .
Rotate the injection site to the alternate arm from the previous week .
Do not use in areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , scaly , raised , thick , or hard .
Avoid areas with scars , tattoos , or stretch marks .
The solution is viscous and oily .
The auto - injector takes approximately 15 seconds to deliver the dose ; when the viewing window is fully blocked ( completely orange ) , the full dose has been administered .
The “ Instructions for Use ” contains detailed steps for administering the subcutaneous injection using the auto - injector [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Read the “ Instructions for Use ” carefully before administering Makena auto - injector .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use ( Makena Auto - injector ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Subcutaneous injection : 275 mg / 1 . 1 mL clear yellow solution in single - use auto - injector .
Intramuscular injection : 250 mg / mL clear yellow solution in single - dose vials .
Intramuscular injection : 1250 mg / 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) clear yellow solution in multiple - dose vials .
1 . 1 mL single - use auto - injector for subcutaneous use contains 275 mg of hydroxyprogesterone caproate ( 250 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) 1 mL single - dose vial for intramuscular use contains 250 mg of hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
( 3 ) 5 mL multi - dose vial for intramuscular use contains 1250 mg of hydroxyprogesterone caproate ( 250 mg / mL ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use Makena in women with any of the following conditions : • • Current or history of thrombosis or thromboembolic disorders • • Known or suspected breast cancer , other hormone - sensitive cancer , or history of these conditions • • Undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding unrelated to pregnancy • • Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy • • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or active liver disease • • Uncontrolled hypertension • • Current or history of thrombosis or thromboembolic disorders ( 4 ) • • Known or suspected breast cancer , other hormone - sensitive cancer , or history of these conditions ( 4 ) • • Undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding unrelated to pregnancy ( 4 ) • • Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy ( 4 ) • • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or active liver disease ( 4 ) • • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Thromboembolic disorders : Discontinue if thrombosis or thromboembolism occurs ( 5 . 1 ) • • Allergic reactions : Consider discontinuing if allergic reactions occur ( 5 . 2 ) • • Decreased glucose tolerance : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women receiving Makena ( 5 . 3 ) • • Fluid retention : Monitor women with conditions that may be affected by fluid retention , such as preeclampsia , epilepsy , cardiac or renal dysfunction ( 5 . 4 ) • • Depression : Monitor women with a history of clinical depression ; discontinue Makena if depression recurs ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders Discontinue Makena if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic or thromboembolic event occurs .
5 . 2 Allergic Reactions Allergic reactions , including urticaria , pruritus and angioedema , have been reported with use of Makena or with other products containing castor oil .
Consider discontinuing the drug if such reactions occur .
5 . 3 Decrease in Glucose Tolerance A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on progestin treatment .
The mechanism of this decrease is not known .
Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women while they are receiving Makena .
5 . 4 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs may cause some degree of fluid retention , carefully monitor women with conditions that might be influenced by this effect ( e . g . , preeclampsia , epilepsy , migraine , asthma , cardiac or renal dysfunction ) .
5 . 5 Depression Monitor women who have a history of clinical depression and discontinue Makena if clinical depression recurs .
5 . 6 Jaundice Carefully monitor women who develop jaundice while receiving Makena and consider whether the benefit of use warrants continuation .
5 . 7 Hypertension Carefully monitor women who develop hypertension while receiving Makena and consider whether the benefit of use warrants continuation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS For the most serious adverse reactions to the use of progestins , see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) .
• • In a study where the Makena intramuscular injection was compared with placebo , the most common adverse reactions reported with Makena intramuscular injection ( reported incidence in ≥ 2 % of subjects and higher than in the control group ) were : injection site reactions ( pain [ 35 % ] , swelling [ 17 % ] , pruritus [ 6 % ] , nodule [ 5 % ] ) , urticaria ( 12 % ) , pruritus ( 8 % ) , nausea ( 6 % ) , and diarrhea ( 2 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) • • In studies where the Makena subcutaneous injection using auto - injector was compared with Makena intramuscular injection , the most common adverse reaction reported with Makena auto - injector use ( and higher than with Makena intramuscular injection ) was injection site pain ( 10 % in one study and 34 % in another ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AMAG Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 411 - 2510 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In a vehicle ( placebo ) - controlled clinical trial of 463 pregnant women at risk for spontaneous preterm delivery based on obstetrical history , 310 received 250 mg of Makena and 153 received a vehicle formulation containing no drug by a weekly intramuscular injection beginning at 16 to 20 weeks of gestation and continuing until 37 weeks of gestation or delivery , whichever occurred first .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) . ]
Certain pregnancy - related fetal and maternal complications or events were numerically increased in the Makena - treated subjects as compared to control subjects , including miscarriage and stillbirth , admission for preterm labor , preeclampsia or gestational hypertension , gestational diabetes , and oligohydramnios ( Tables 1 and 2 ) .
Table 1 Selected Fetal Complications1 N = Total number of subjects enrolled prior to 20 weeks 0 days 2 N = Total number of subjects at risk ≥ 20 weeks Pregnancy Complication Makena Control n / N n / N Miscarriage ( < 20 weeks ) 1 5 / 209 0 / 107 Stillbirth ( ≥ 20 weeks ) 2 6 / 305 2 / 153 Table 2 Selected Maternal Complications1 Other than delivery admission .
Pregnancy Complication Makena N = 310 % Control N = 153 % Admission for preterm labor1 16 . 0 13 . 8 Preeclampsia or gestational hypertension 8 . 8 4 . 6 Gestational diabetes 5 . 6 4 . 6 Oligohydramnios 3 . 6 1 . 3 Common Adverse Reactions : The most common adverse reaction with intramuscular injection was injection site pain , which was reported after at least one injection by 34 . 8 % of the Makena group and 32 . 7 % of the control group .
Table 3 lists adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of subjects and at a higher rate in the Makena group than in the control group .
Table 3 Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Makena - Treated Subjects and at a Higher Rate than Control SubjectsPreferred Term Makena N = 310 % Control N = 153 % Injection site pain 34 . 8 32 . 7 Injection site swelling 17 . 1 7 . 8 Urticaria 12 . 3 11 . 1 Pruritus 7 . 7 5 . 9 Injection site pruritus 5 . 8 3 . 3 Nausea 5 . 8 4 . 6 Injection site nodule 4 . 5 2 . 0 Diarrhea 2 . 3 0 . 7 In the clinical trial using intramuscular injection , 2 . 2 % of subjects receiving Makena were reported as discontinuing therapy due to adverse reactions compared to 2 . 6 % of control subjects .
The most common adverse reactions that led to discontinuation in both groups were urticaria and injection site pain / swelling ( 1 % each ) .
Pulmonary embolus in one subject and injection site cellulitis in another subject were reported as serious adverse reactions in Makena - treated subjects .
Two clinical studies were conducted in healthy post - menopausal women , comparing Makena administered via subcutaneous auto - injector to Makena administered as an intramuscular injection .
In the first study , injection site pain occurred in 3 / 30 ( 10 % ) of subjects who used the subcutaneous auto - injector vs . 2 / 30 ( 7 % ) of subjects receiving intramuscular injection .
In the second study , injection site pain occurred in 20 / 59 ( 34 % ) of subjects who used the subcutaneous auto - injector vs . 5 / 61 ( 8 % ) of subjects receiving intramuscular injection .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Makena .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Body as a whole : Local injection site reactions ( including erythema , urticaria , rash , irritation , hypersensitivity , warmth ) ; fatigue ; fever ; hot flashes / flushes • • Digestive disorders : Vomiting • • Infections : Urinary tract infection • • Nervous system disorders : Headache , dizziness • • Pregnancy , puerperium and perinatal conditions : Cervical incompetence , premature rupture of membranes • • Reproductive system and breast disorders : Cervical dilation , shortened cervix • • Respiratory disorders : Dyspnea , chest discomfort • • Skin : Rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Makena .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate has minimal potential for CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , and CYP2B6 related drug - drug interactions at the clinically relevant concentrations .
In vitro data indicated that therapeutic concentration of hydroxyprogesterone caproate is not likely to inhibit the activity of CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , and CYP3A4 [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
No in vivo drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Makena .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Makena is indicated to reduce the risk of preterm birth in women with a singleton pregnancy who have a history of singleton spontaneous preterm birth .
Fetal , neonatal , and maternal risks are discussed throughout labeling .
Data from the placebo - controlled clinical trial and the infant follow - up safety study [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] did not show a difference in adverse developmental outcomes between children of Makena - treated women and children of control subjects .
However , these data are insufficient to determine a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes as none of the Makena - treated women received the drug during the first trimester of pregnancy .
In animal reproduction studies , intramuscular administration of hydroxyprogesterone caproate to pregnant rats during gestation at doses 5 times the human dose equivalent based on a 60 - kg human was not associated with adverse developmental outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies of hydroxyprogesterone caproate administered to various animal species have been reported in the literature .
In nonhuman primates , embryolethality was reported in rhesus monkeys administered hydroxyprogesterone caproate up to 2 . 4 and 24 times the human dose equivalent , but not in cynomolgus monkeys administered hydroxyprogesterone caproate at doses up to 2 . 4 times the human dose equivalent , every 7 days between days 20 and 146 of gestation .
There were no teratogenic effects in either strain of monkey .
Reproduction studies have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 95 and 5 , respectively , times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Low levels of progestins are present in human milk with the use of progestin - containing products , including hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
Published studies have reported no adverse effects of progestins on the breastfed child or on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Makena is not indicated for use in women under 16 years of age .
Safety and effectiveness in patients less than 16 years of age have not been established .
A small number of women under age 18 years were studied ; safety and efficacy are expected to be the same in women aged 16 years and above as for users 18 years and older [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to examine the pharmacokinetics of Makena in patients with hepatic impairment .
Makena is extensively metabolized and hepatic impairment may reduce the elimination of Makena .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of adverse events associated with overdosage of Makena in clinical trials .
In the case of overdosage , the patient should be treated symptomatically .
11 DESCRIPTION The active pharmaceutical ingredient in Makena is hydroxyprogesterone caproate , a progestin .
The chemical name for hydroxyprogesterone caproate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 17 [ ( 1 - oxohexyl ) oxy ] .
It has an empirical formula of C27H40O4 and a molecular weight of 428 . 60 .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate exists as white to practically white crystals or powder with a melting point of 120 ° - 124 ° C .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Makena is a clear , yellow , sterile , non - pyrogenic solution for intramuscular ( vials ) or subcutaneous ( auto - injector ) injection .
Each 1 . 1 mL Makena auto - injector for subcutaneous use and each 1 mL single - dose vial for intramuscular use contains hydroxyprogesterone caproate USP , 250 mg / mL ( 25 % w / v ) , in a preservative - free solution containing castor oil USP ( 30 . 6 % v / v ) and benzyl benzoate USP ( 46 % v / v ) .
Each 5 mL multi - dose vial contains hydroxyprogesterone caproate USP , 250 mg / mL ( 25 % w / v ) , in castor oil USP ( 28 . 6 % ) and benzyl benzoate USP ( 46 % v / v ) with the preservative benzyl alcohol NF ( 2 % v / v ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is a synthetic progestin .
The mechanism by which hydroxyprogesterone caproate reduces the risk of recurrent preterm birth is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Makena .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Female patients with a singleton pregnancy received intramuscular doses of 250 mg hydroxyprogesterone caproate for the reduction of preterm birth starting between 16 weeks 0 days and 20 weeks 6 days .
All patients had blood drawn daily for 7 days to evaluate pharmacokinetics .
Table 4 Summary of Mean ( Standard Deviation ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Hydroxyprogesterone CaproateBlood was drawn daily for 7 days ( 1 ) starting 24 hours after the first dose between Weeks 16 - 20 ( Group 1 ) , ( 2 ) after a dose between Weeks 24 - 28 ( Group 2 ) , or ( 3 ) after a dose between Weeks 32 - 36 ( Group 3 ) a Reported as median ( range ) b t = 7 days Group ( N ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( days ) a AUC ( 0 - t ) b ( ng · hr / mL ) Group 1 ( N = 6 ) 5 . 0 ( 1 . 5 ) 5 . 5 ( 2 . 0 - 7 . 0 ) 571 . 4 ( 195 . 2 ) Group 2 ( N = 8 ) 12 . 5 ( 3 . 9 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 9 - 1 . 9 ) 1269 . 6 ( 285 . 0 ) Group 3 ( N = 11 ) 12 . 3 ( 4 . 9 ) 2 . 0 ( 1 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) 1268 . 0 ( 511 . 6 ) For all three groups , peak concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the curve ( AUC ( 1 - 7 days ) ) of the mono - hydroxylated metabolites were approximately 3 - 8 - fold lower than the respective parameters for the parent drug , hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
While di - hydroxylated and tri - hydroxylated metabolites were also detected in human plasma to a lesser extent , no meaningful quantitative results could be derived due to the absence of reference standards for these multiple hydroxylated metabolites .
The relative activity and significance of these metabolites are not known .
The elimination half - life of hydroxyprogesterone caproate , as evaluated from 4 patients in the study who reached full - term in their pregnancies , was 16 . 4 ( ± 3 . 6 ) days .
The elimination half - life of the mono - hydroxylated metabolites was 19 . 7 ( ± 6 . 2 ) days .
In a single - dose , open - label , randomized , parallel design bioavailability study in 120 healthy post - menopausal women , comparable systemic exposure of hydroxyprogesterone caproate was seen when Makena was administered subcutaneously with the auto - injector ( 1 . 1 mL ) in the back of the upper arm and when Makena was dosed intramuscularly ( 1 mL ) in the upper outer quadrant of the gluteus maximus .
Distribution : Hydroxyprogesterone caproate binds extensively to plasma proteins including albumin and corticosteroid binding globulins .
Metabolism : In vitro studies have shown that hydroxyprogesterone caproate can be metabolized by human hepatocytes , both by phase I and phase II reactions .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate undergoes extensive reduction , hydroxylation and conjugation .
The conjugated metabolites include sulfated , glucuronidated and acetylated products .
In vitro data indicate that the metabolism of hydroxyprogesterone caproate is predominantly mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 .
The in vitro data indicate that the caproate group is retained during metabolism of hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
Excretion : Both conjugated metabolites and free steroids are excreted in the urine and feces , with the conjugated metabolites being prominent .
Following intramuscular administration to pregnant women at 10 - 12 weeks gestation , approximately 50 % of a dose was recovered in the feces and approximately 30 % recovered in the urine .
Drug Interactions Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes : An in vitro inhibition study using human liver microsomes and CYP isoform - selective substrates indicated that hydroxyprogesterone caproate increased the metabolic rate of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , and CYP2B6 by approximately 80 % , 150 % , and 80 % , respectively .
However , in another in vitro study using human hepatocytes under conditions where the prototypical inducers or inhibitors caused the anticipated increases or decreases in CYP enzyme activities , hydroxyprogesterone caproate did not induce or inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , or CYP2B6 activity .
Overall , the findings indicate that hydroxyprogesterone caproate has minimal potential for CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , and CYP2B6 related drug - drug interactions at the clinically relevant concentrations .
In vitro data indicated that therapeutic concentration of hydroxyprogesterone caproate is not likely to inhibit the activity of CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , and CYP3A4 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Hydroxyprogesterone caproate has not been adequately evaluated for carcinogenicity .
No reproductive or developmental toxicity or impaired fertility was observed in a multigenerational study in rats .
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate administered intramuscularly , at gestational exposures up to 5 times the recommended human dose , had no adverse effects on the parental ( F0 ) dams , their developing offspring ( F1 ) , or the latter offspring ' s ability to produce a viable , normal second ( F2 ) generation .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Trial to Evaluate Reduction of Risk of Preterm Birth In a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle ( placebo ) - controlled clinical trial , the safety and effectiveness of Makena for the reduction of the risk of spontaneous preterm birth was studied in women with a singleton pregnancy ( age 16 to 43 years ) who had a documented history of singleton spontaneous preterm birth ( defined as delivery at less than 37 weeks of gestation following spontaneous preterm labor or premature rupture of membranes ) .
At the time of randomization ( between 16 weeks , 0 days and 20 weeks , 6 days of gestation ) , an ultrasound examination had confirmed gestational age and no known fetal anomaly .
Women were excluded for prior progesterone treatment or heparin therapy during the current pregnancy , a history of thromboembolic disease , or maternal / obstetrical complications ( such as current or planned cerclage , hypertension requiring medication , or a seizure disorder ) .
A total of 463 pregnant women were randomized to receive either Makena ( N = 310 ) or vehicle ( N = 153 ) at a dose of 250 mg administered weekly by intramuscular injection starting between 16 weeks , 0 days and 20 weeks , 6 days of gestation , and continuing until 37 weeks of gestation or delivery .
Demographics of the Makena - treated women were similar to those in the control group , and included : 59 . 0 % Black , 25 . 5 % Caucasian , 13 . 9 % Hispanic and 0 . 6 % Asian .
The mean body mass index was 26 . 9 kg / m2 .
The proportions of women in each treatment arm who delivered at < 37 ( the primary study endpoint ) , < 35 , and < 32 weeks of gestation are displayed in Table 5 .
Table 5 Proportion ofs Subjects Delivering at < 37 , < 35 and < 32 Weeks Gestational Age ( ITT Population ) 1 Four Makena - treated subjects were lost to follow - up .
They were counted as deliveries at their gestational ages at time of last contact ( 184 , 220 , 343 and 364 weeks ) .
2 Adjusted for interim analysis .
Delivery Outcome Makena1 ( N = 310 ) % Control ( N = 153 ) % Treatment difference and 95 % Confidence Interval2 < 37 weeks 37 . 1 54 . 9 - 17 . 8 % [ - 28 . 0 % , - 7 . 4 % ] < 35 weeks 21 . 3 30 . 7 - 9 . 4 % [ - 19 . 0 % , - 0 . 4 % ] < 32 weeks 11 . 9 19 . 6 - 7 . 7 % [ - 16 . 1 % , - 0 . 3 % ] Compared to controls , treatment with Makena reduced the proportion of women who delivered preterm at < 37 weeks .
The proportions of women delivering at < 35 and < 32 weeks also were lower among women treated with Makena .
The upper bounds of the confidence intervals for the treatment difference at < 35 and < 32 weeks were close to zero .
Inclusion of zero in a confidence interval would indicate the treatment difference is not statistically significant .
Compared to the other gestational ages evaluated , the number of preterm births at < 32 weeks was limited .
After adjusting for time in the study , 7 . 5 % of Makena - treated subjects delivered prior to 25 weeks compared to 4 . 7 % of control subjects ; see Figure 1 .
Figure 1 Proportion of Women Remaining Pregnant as a Function of Gestational Age [ MULTIMEDIA ] The rates of fetal losses and neonatal deaths in each treatment arm are displayed in Table 6 .
Due to the higher rate of miscarriages and stillbirths in the Makena arm , there was no overall survival difference demonstrated in this clinical trial .
Table 6 Fetal Losses and Neonatal DeathsA Four of the 310 Makena - treated subjects were lost to follow - up and stillbirth or neonatal status could not be determined B Percentages are based on the number of enrolled subjects and not adjusted for time on drug C Percentage adjusted for the number of at risk subjects ( n = 209 for Makena , n = 107 for control ) enrolled at < 20 weeks gestation .
Complication Makena N = 306 A n ( % ) B Control N = 153 n ( % ) B Miscarriages < 20 weeks gestation C 5 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 Stillbirth 6 ( 2 . 0 ) 2 ( 1 . 3 ) Antepartum stillbirth 5 ( 1 . 6 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) Intrapartum stillbirth 1 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) Neonatal deaths 8 ( 2 . 6 ) 9 ( 5 . 9 ) Total Deaths 19 ( 6 . 2 ) 11 ( 7 . 2 ) A composite neonatal morbidity / mortality index evaluated adverse outcomes in live births .
It was based on the number of neonates who died or experienced respiratory distress syndrome , bronchopulmonary dysplasia , grade 3 or 4 intraventricular hemorrhage , proven sepsis , or necrotizing enterocolitis .
Although the proportion of neonates who experienced 1 or more events was numerically lower in the Makena arm ( 11 . 9 % vs . 17 . 2 % ) , the number of adverse outcomes was limited and the difference between arms was not statistically significant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Infant Follow - Up Safety Study Infants born to women enrolled in this study , and who survived to be discharged from the nursery , were eligible for participation in a follow - up safety study .
Of 348 eligible offspring , 79 . 9 % enrolled : 194 children of Makena - treated women and 84 children of control subjects .
The primary endpoint was the score on the Ages & Stages Questionnaire ( ASQ ) , which evaluates communication , gross motor , fine motor , problem solving , and personal / social parameters .
The proportion of children whose scores met the screening threshold for developmental delay in each developmental domain was similar for each treatment group .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Makena auto - injector ( for subcutaneous injection ) Makena auto - injector ( NDC 64011 - 301 - 03 ) is supplied as 1 . 1 mL of a clear yellow sterile preservative - free solution in an auto - injector containing a pre - filled syringe .
Each 1 . 1 mL auto - injector contains hydroxyprogesterone caproate USP , 250 mg / mL ( 25 % w / v ) , in castor oil USP ( 30 . 6 % v / v ) and benzyl benzoate USP ( 46 % v / v ) .
Single unit carton : Contains one 1 . 1 mL single - patient - use auto - injector of Makena containing 275 mg of hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate or freeze .
Caution : Protect auto - injector from light .
Store auto - injector in its box .
Makena single - and multi - dose vials ( for intramuscular injection ) Makena ( NDC 64011 - 247 - 02 ) is supplied as 1 mL of a sterile preservative - free clear yellow solution in a single - dose glass vial .
Each 1 mL vial contains hydroxyprogesterone caproate USP , 250 mg / mL ( 25 % w / v ) , in castor oil USP ( 30 . 6 % v / v ) and benzyl benzoate USP ( 46 % v / v ) .
Single unit carton : Contains one 1 mL single - dose vial of Makena containing 250 mg of hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
Makena ( NDC 64011 - 243 - 01 ) is supplied as 5 mL of a sterile clear yellow solution in a multi - dose glass vial .
Each 5 mL vial contains hydroxyprogesterone caproate USP , 250 mg / mL ( 25 % w / v ) , in castor oil USP ( 28 . 6 % v / v ) and benzyl benzoate USP ( 46 % v / v ) with the preservative benzyl alcohol NF ( 2 % v / v ) .
Single unit carton : Contains one 5 mL multi - dose vial of Makena ( 250 mg / mL ) containing 1250 mg of hydroxyprogesterone caproate .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate or freeze .
Use multi - dose vials within 5 weeks after first use .
Caution : Protect vial from light .
Store vial in its box .
Store upright .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Counsel patients that Makena injections may cause pain , soreness , swelling , itching or bruising .
Inform the patient to contact her physician if she notices increased discomfort over time , oozing of blood or fluid , or inflammatory reactions at the injection site [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 02 / 2018 ver 1 . 2 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 02 / 2018 PATIENT INFORMATION MAKENA ( mah - KEE - na ) ( hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection ) auto - injector for subcutaneous use MAKENA ( mah - KEE - na ) ( hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection ) vial for intramuscular use Read this Patient Information leaflet before you receive MAKENA .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is MAKENA ?
MAKENA is a prescription hormone medicine ( progestin ) used in women who are pregnant and who have delivered a baby too early ( preterm ) in the past .
MAKENA is used in these women to help lower the risk of having a preterm baby again .
It is not known if MAKENA reduces the number of babies who are born with serious medical conditions or die shortly after birth .
MAKENA is for women who : • • Are pregnant with one baby .
• • Have had a preterm delivery of one baby in the past .
MAKENA is not intended for use to stop active preterm labor .
It is not known if MAKENA is safe and effective in women who have other risk factors for preterm birth .
MAKENA is not for use in women under 16 years of age .
Who should not receive MAKENA ?
MAKENA should not be used if you have : • • blood clots or other blood clotting problems now or in the past • • breast cancer or other hormone - sensitive cancers now or in the past • • unusual vaginal bleeding not related to your current pregnancy • • yellowing of your skin due to liver problems during your pregnancy • • liver problems , including liver tumors • • high blood pressure that is not controlled What should I tell my healthcare provider before receiving MAKENA ?
Before you receive MAKENA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you have : • • a history of allergic reaction to hydroxyprogesterone caproate , castor oil , or any of the other ingredients in MAKENA .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in MAKENA .
• • diabetes or pre - diabetes .
• • epilepsy ( seizures ) .
• • migraine headaches .
• • asthma .
• • heart problems .
• • kidney problems .
• • depression .
• • high blood pressure .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
MAKENA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how MAKENA works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I receive MAKENA ?
• • Do not give yourself MAKENA injections .
A healthcare provider will give you the MAKENA injection 1 time each week ( every 7 days ) either : • • in the back of your upper arm as an injection under the skin ( subcutaneous ) , or • • in the upper outer area of the buttocks as an injection into the muscle ( intramuscular ) .
• • You will start receiving MAKENA injections anytime from 16 weeks and 0 days of your pregnancy , up to 20 weeks and 6 days of your pregnancy .
• • You will continue to receive MAKENA injections 1 time each week until week 37 ( through 36 weeks and 6 days ) of your pregnancy or when your baby is delivered , whichever comes first .
What are the possible side effects of MAKENA ?
MAKENA may cause serious side effects , including : • • Blood clots .
Symptoms of a blood clot may include ; • • leg swelling • • redness in your leg • • a spot on your leg that is warm to the touch • • leg pain that gets worse when you bend your foot • Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the symptoms above during treatment with MAKENA .
• • Allergic reactions .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction may include : • • hives • • itching • • swelling of the face • Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the symptoms above during treatment with MAKENA .
• • Decrease in glucose ( blood sugar ) tolerance .
Your healthcare provider will need to monitor your blood sugar while taking MAKENA if you have diabetes or pre - diabetes .
• • Your body may hold too much fluid ( fluid retention ) .
• • Depression .
• • Yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes ( jaundice ) .
• • High blood pressure .
The most common side effects of MAKENA include : • • pain , swelling , itching or a hard bump at the injection site • • hives • • itching • • nausea • • diarrhea Call your healthcare provider if you have the following at your injection site : • • increased pain over time • • oozing of blood or fluid • • swelling Other side effects that may happen more often in women who receive MAKENA include : • • Miscarriage ( pregnancy loss before 20 weeks of pregnancy ) • • Stillbirth ( fetal death occurring during or after the 20 th week of pregnancy ) • • Hospital admission for preterm labor • • Preeclampsia ( high blood pressure and too much protein in your urine ) • • Gestational hypertension ( high blood pressure caused by pregnancy ) • • Gestational diabetes • • Oligohydramnios ( low amniotic fluid levels ) Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of MAKENA .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store MAKENA ?
• • MAKENA auto - injector for subcutaneous use : • • Store the auto - injector at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Do not refrigerate or freeze .
• • Protect the auto - injector from light .
• • Store the auto - injector in its box .
• • MAKENA vial for intramuscular use : • • Store the vial at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Do not refrigerate or freeze .
• • Protect the vial from light .
• • Store the vial in its box in an upright position .
Keep MAKENA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of MAKENA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use MAKENA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give MAKENA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about MAKENA .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about MAKENA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in MAKENA ?
Active ingredient : hydroxyprogesterone caproate Inactive ingredients : castor oil and benzyl benzoate .
5 mL multi - dose vials also contain benzyl alcohol ( a preservative ) .
Distributed by : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Makena is a registered trademark of AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc For more information , go to www . MAKENA . com or call AMAG Pharmaceuticals Customer Service at the toll - free number 1 - 877 - 411 - 2510 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 64011 - 243 - 01 - 5 mL Carton Label Makena ® hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection 1250 mg / 5 mL ( 250 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE 5 mL multidose vial Rx ONLY Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Do not refrigerate .
Caution : Protect from light .
Store vial in its box .
Store upright .
Use within 5 weeks after first use .
Each mL contains : hydroxyprogesterone caproate 250 mg , benzyl benzoate 46 % , castor oil 28 . 6 % , and benzyl alcohol 2 % , as preservative .
See package insert for full prescribing and patient information .
Distributed by : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 64011 - 247 - 02 - 1 mL Carton Label Makena ® hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection 250 mg / mL 1 mL vial FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE 1 mL single dose vial Rx ONLY Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Caution : Protect from light .
Store vial in its box .
Store upright .
1 mL contains : hydroxyprogesterone caproate 250 mg , benzyl benzoate 46 % , and castor oil 31 % .
See package insert for full prescribing and patient information .
Distributed by : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 64011 - 301 - 03 - 1 . 1 mL Auto - Injector Carton Label Rx ONLY Makena ® hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection 275 mg / 1 . 1 mL Auto - Injector FOR SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION ONLY .
Administration by Healthcare Professionals Only .
Read Instructions for Use before administration .
275 mg / 1 . 1 mL 250 mg / mL This carton contains : 1 single - use Makena Auto - Injector Prescribing Information and Instructions for Use Storage & Handling : Do not refrigerate or freeze | Protect from light ( keep in carton until time of use ) | Keep away from children Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Makena ( hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection ) is a preservative - free solution .
Inactive ingredients : castor oil , benzyl benzoate .
Distributed by : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC 64011 - 301 - 03 - 1 . 1 mL Auto - Injector Label Rx ONLY Makena ® hydroxyprogesterone caproate injection 275 mg / 1 . 1 mL Auto - Injector FOR SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION ONLY .
Single Use .
Administration by Healthcare Professionals Only .
Read Instructions for Use before administration .
Inject subcutaneously in the back of either upper arm .
Hold until window turns orange .
Verify window is completely orange before removing from injection site .
Liquid Should Be Clear TWIST CAP NEEDLE END Do Not Use if Seal is Broken Usual Dosage : Administer one injection weekly | See full Prescribing Information and Instructions for Use | Do not refrigerate or freeze | Protect from light ( keep in carton until time of use ) | Keep away from children Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Distributed by AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
