Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose Vaginal antifungal Uses Treats Vaginal Yeast Infections Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • Abdominal , back , shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , foul smelling discharge • If you are pregnant or have diabetes • Been exposed to the Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS Ask a doctor if you are taking prescription blood thinning medicine such as warfarin because bleeding or bruising may occur When Using this product do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products • Mild vaginal irritation may occur • Condoms and diaphragms may become damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases • If you do not get complete relief consult your doctor Stop use and ask your doctor if symptoms do not get better in 7 days • you get a rash , hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul smelling discharge • If pregnant or breast feeding ask a doctor before using Keep out of reach of children .
Directions For use by adults and children 12 years of age and older • Apply a small amount of cream to your finger tip • Apply to the outside and inside of the vagina before bedtime • Can be applied as many times as needed daily .
Other information store at room temperature , 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aminomethyl Propanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycol Stearate , Mineral Oil , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene Glycol , Stearic Acid , Stearyl Alcohol , Water antifungal moisturizer for yeast infections • Gynecologist recommended • Supplements the body ’ s natural lubrication • Long lasting relief • Cures most vaginal yeast infections • Soothes irritation on ontact • Helps relieve vaginal itching and burning Dr . Rainer ’ s vaginal cream is a mineral oil antifungal cream used to treat women that suffer from vaginal dryness , itching and pain associated with yeast infections that is safe to use everyday , multiple times .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
For vaginal use only .
Distributed by : Harmony Preferred Products , LLC Kirkland WA 98033 All rights reserved .
Made in USA .
Dr . Rainer ’ s cream was specially created for the vaginal area as a mineral oil based antifungal cream used to treat women that suffer from vaginal dryness , itching , burning , irritation and pain associated with yeast infections .
It is safe to use everyday , multiple times a day as needed .
Both young and mature women alike may benefit from the daily use of Dr . Rainer ’ s cream .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
