DESCRIPTION Dear Medical Professional , Per your order we have compounded Isosulfan Blue 1 % .
The characteristics of this compounded preparation are as follows : CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Isosulfan Blue has no known pharmacologic action .
Following subcutaneous administration , Isosulfan blue 1 % is selectively picked up by the lymphatic vessels .
Thus , the lymphatic vessels are delineated by a bright blue color making them discernible from surrounding tissue .
There is some evidence that 50 % of the isosulfan blue , from aqueous solution , is weakly bound to serum protein ( albumin ) .
Since interstitial protein is presumed to be carried almost exclusively by lymphtics , and in view of evidence of binding of dyes to proteins , visualization may be due to protein binding phenomenon .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosulfan Blue 1 % Injection delineates the lymphatic vessels following subcutaneous administration .
It is an adjunct to lymphography ( in primary and secondary lymphedema of the extremities ; chyluria , chylous ascites or chylothorax ; lymph node involvement by primary or secondary neoplasm ; and lymph node response to therapeutic modalities ) for visualization to the lymphatic system draining the region of injection DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Isosulfan Blue 1 % is to be administered subcutaneously , one - half ( 1 / 2 ) ml into three ( 3 ) interdigital spaces of each extremity per study .
A maximum dose of 3 ml ( 30 mg ) isosulfan blue is injected .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to triphenylmethane or related compounds PRECAUTIONS After subcutaneous administration of Isosulfan blue 1 % , competent personnel and emergency facilities should be available for at least 30 - 60 minutes , since severe delayed reactions have been known to occur with similar compounds .
The admixture of Isosulfan blue with local anesthetics ( i . e . lidocaine ) in the same syringe prior to administration resulted in an immediate precipitation of 4 - 9 % of the drug complex .
This technique is not recommended ADVERSE REACTIONS Isosulfan blue 1 % has demonstrated a 1 . 5 % incidence of adverse reactions .
All the reactions were of an allergic type such as localized swelling at the site of administration and mild pruritis of hands , abdomen and neck have been reported within several minutes following administration of the drug .
Storage and Handling Store at room temperature PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
