Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Octinoxate 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 2 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out if eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directons Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Chidren under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a , m - 2 p .
m wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hat and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Glyceryl stearate , Cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Polyacrylamide , Cyclohexasiloxane , Phenoxyethanol , Tocopheryl acetate , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , Butylene glycol , Panthenol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Ethylparaben , Dimethiconol , Acrylates / vinyl isodecanoate crosspolymer , Laureth - 7 , Phytantiol , Undecylenyl phenylalanine , Dipropylene glycol , Potassium sorbate , Tetrasodium EDTA , Potassium hydroxide , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Agarum cribosum , Polysorbate 20 , BHT , Butylparaben , Propylparaben , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Isobutylparaben , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Appear younger longer .
This quickly and easily absorbed moisturiser vanishes to reveal beautifully younger looking hands with fine lines reduced in just 2 weeks .
Contains our unique whitening complex to help fade age spots and lipo - peptides to help boost and maintain elasticity .
Hands remain conditioned even after washing .
Formulates with pro - vitamin B5 to help strengthen nails and moisturise cuticles .
SPF 15 helps protect against the ageing effects of the sun .
Hypo - allergenic : Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our products are hypo - allergenic using ingredients we known and trust .
A little beauty treatment everyday .
The Boots company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com / no7 Smooth into hands every morning and any time they need a little extra care .
TUBE TEXT Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Octinoxate 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 2 . 0 % TUBE TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
TUBE TEXT Smooth into hands every morning and any time they need a little extra care .
TUBE TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com / no7 TUBE TEXT Appear younger longer .
This quickly and easily absorbed moisturiser vanishes to reveal beautifully younger looking hands with fine lines appearing reduced in just 2 weeks .
Contains our unique whitening complex to help fade age spots and lipo - peptides to help boost and maintain elasticity .
Hands remain conditioned even after washing .
Formulates with Pro - Vitamin B5 to help strengthen nails and moisturise cuticles .
SPF 15 helps protect against the ageing effects of the sun .
A little beauty treatment everyday .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Protect and Perfect Hand Cream Conditions and protects for younger looking hands Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 75 ml 2 . 5 US Fl . Oz .
No7 PP Hand Cream SPF 15 carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Protect and Perfect Hand Cream Conditions and protects for younger looking hands Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Hypo - allergenic 75 ml 2 . 5 US Fl . Oz .
No7 PP Hand Cream SPF 15 tube . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
