Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 . 0 % ( w / w ) Purpose Oral anesthetic / analgesic Uses • for the temporary relief of pain due to canker sores , minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances , or minor injury of the mouth or gums Warnings METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days ; if irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens ; or if swelling , rash or fever develops , see your doctor or dentist promptly .
• do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • to assure formation of a long - lasting film coating , dry affected area and apply medication undiluted with applicator • allow a few seconds for coating to form • use up to 4 times daily , or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • do not purchase if package has been opened • cap tightly after use to avoid evaporation • avoid contact with the eyes • avoid contact with clothing and household / furniture surfaces to prevent possible staining • this is a personal care item , and should be used by one individual only Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetylpyridinium chloride , compound benzoin tincture , dimethyl isosorbide , ethylcellulose , flavor , octylacrylamide / acrylates / butylaminoethyl methacrylate copolymer , oleth - 10 , PEG - 6 , propylene glycol , ricinus communis ( castor ) seed oil , SD alcohol 38 B ( 29 . 6 % v / v ) , sodium saccharin , sucralose , tannic acid PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 9 . 75 mL Bottle Package MAXIMUM STRENGTH Blistex ® KANK + A ® MOUTH PAIN LIQUID ORAL ANESTHETIC Maximum Pain Relief Forms Protective Coating For Sores Inside the Mouth Canker Sores Denture Abrasions Brace Irritation ADA Accepted American Dental Association ® CONVENIENT CONTROL - TIP APPLICATOR Net 0 . 33 fl .
oz .
( 9 . 75 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
