DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP is Ondansetron hydrochloride ( HCl ) , USP as the dihydrate , the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one , monohydrochloride , dihydrate .
It has the following structural formula : 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C H N O • HCl • 2 H O , representing a molecular weight of 365 . 9 .
181932 Ondansetron HCl dihydrate is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water and normal saline .
Each 5 mL of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP contains 5 mg of ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP contains the inactive ingredients citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate and strawberry flavor .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ondansetron is a selective 5 - HT receptor antagonist .
While its mechanism of action has not been fully characterized , ondansetron is not a dopamine - receptor antagonist .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT type are present both peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is not certain whether ondansetron ’ s antiemetic action is mediated centrally , peripherally , or in both sites .
However , cytotoxic chemotherapy appears to be associated with release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine .
In humans , urinary 5 - HIAA ( 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ) excretion increases after cisplatin administration in parallel with the onset of emesis .
The released serotonin may stimulate the vagal afferents through the 5 - HT receptors and initiate the vomiting reflex .
Pharmacodynamics : 333 In animals , the emetic response to cisplatin can be prevented by pretreatment with an inhibitor of serotonin synthesis , bilateral abdominal vagotomy and greater splanchnic nerve section , or pretreatment with a serotonin 5 - HT receptor antagonist .
3 In normal volunteers , single intravenous doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg of ondansetron had no effect on esophageal motility , gastric motility , lower esophageal sphincter pressure , or small intestinal transit time .
Multiday administration of ondansetron has been shown to slow colonic transit in normal volunteers .
Ondansetron has no effect on plasma prolactin concentrations .
Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
Ondansetron is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and undergoes some first - pass metabolism .
Mean bioavailability in healthy subjects , following administration of a single 8 - mg tablet , is approximately 56 % .
Pharmacokinetics : Ondansetron systemic exposure does not increase proportionately to dose .
AUC from a 16 - mg tablet was 24 % greater than predicted from an 8 - mg tablet dose .
This may reflect some reduction of first - pass metabolism at higher oral doses .
Bioavailability is also slightly enhanced by the presence of food but unaffected by antacids .
Ondansetron is extensively metabolized in humans , with approximately 5 % of a radiolabeled dose recovered as the parent compound from the urine .
The primary metabolic pathway is hydroxylation on the indole ring followed by subsequent glucuronide or sulfate conjugation .
Although some nonconjugated metabolites have pharmacologic activity , these are not found in plasma at concentrations likely to significantly contribute to the biological activity of ondansetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have shown that ondansetron is a substrate for human hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
In terms of overall ondansetron turnover , CYP3A4 played the predominant role .
Because of the multiplicity of metabolic enzymes capable of metabolizing ondansetron , it is likely that inhibition or loss of one enzyme ( e . g . , CYP2D6 genetic deficiency ) will be compensated by others and may result in little change in overall rates of ondansetron elimination .
Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , reduction in AUC , C , and T of ondansetron was observed . 1 This resulted in a significant increase in clearance .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended ( see ) .
max ½ PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
Gender differences were shown in the disposition of ondansetron given as a single dose .
The extent and rate of ondansetron ' s absorption is greater in women than men .
Slower clearance in women , a smaller apparent volume of distribution ( adjusted for weight ) , and higher absolute bioavailability resulted in higher plasma ondansetron levels .
These higher plasma levels may in part be explained by differences in body weight between men and women .
It is not known whether these gender - related differences were clinically important .
More detailed pharmacokinetic information is contained in Tables 1 and 2 taken from 2 studies .
Table 1 .
Pharmacokinetics in Normal Volunteers : Single 8 - mg Ondansetron Tablet Dose Age - group ( years ) Mean Weight ( kg ) n Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) Systemic Plasma Clearance L / h / kg Absolute Bioavailability 18 - 40 M F 69 . 0 62 . 7 6 5 26 . 2 42 . 7 2 . 0 1 . 7 3 . 1 3 . 5 0 . 403 0 . 354 0 . 483 0 . 663 61 - 74 M F 77 . 5 60 . 2 6 6 24 . 1 52 . 4 2 . 1 1 . 9 4 . 1 4 . 9 0 . 384 0 . 255 0 . 585 0 . 643 ≥ 75 M F 78 . 0 67 . 6 5 6 37 . 0 46 . 1 2 . 2 2 . 1 4 . 5 6 . 2 0 . 277 0 . 249 0 . 619 0 . 747 Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetics in Normal Volunteers : Single 24 - mg Ondansetron Tablet Dose Age - group ( years ) Mean Weight ( kg ) n Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) 18 - 43 M F 84 . 1 71 . 8 8 8 125 . 8 194 . 4 1 . 9 1 . 6 4 . 7 5 . 8 A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life are seen in patients over 75 years of age .
In clinical trials with cancer patients , safety and efficacy was similar in patients over 65 years of age and those under 65 years of age ; there was an insufficient number of patients over 75 years of age to permit conclusions in that age - group .
No dosage adjustment is recommended in the elderly .
In patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced 2 - fold and mean half - life is increased to 11 . 6 hours compared to 5 . 7 hours in normals .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced 2 - fold to 3 - fold and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in half - life to 20 hours .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
2 Due to the very small contribution ( 5 % ) of renal clearance to the overall clearance , renal impairment was not expected to significantly influence the total clearance of ondansetron .
However , ondansetron oral mean plasma clearance was reduced by about 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
This reduction in clearance is variable and was not consistent with an increase in half - life .
No reduction in dose or dosing frequency in these patients is warranted .
Plasma protein binding of ondansetron as measured in vitro was 70 % to 76 % over the concentration range of 10 to 500 ng / mL .
Circulating drug also distributes into erythrocytes .
Four and 8 mg doses of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP is bioequivalent to corresponding doses of Ondansetron Tablets and may be used interchangeably .
CLINICAL TRIALS In 2 randomized , double - blind , monotherapy trials , a single 24 - mg Ondansetron Tablet was superior to a relevant historical placebo control in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m .
Steroid administration was excluded from these clinical trials .
More than 90 % of patients receiving a cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m in the historical placebo comparator experienced vomiting in the absence of antiemetic therapy .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy : 22 The first trial compared oral doses of ondansetron 24 mg once a day , 8 mg twice a day , and 32 mg once a day in 357 adult cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m .
A total of 66 % of patients in the ondansetron 24 - mg once - a - day group , 55 % in the ondansetron 8 - mg twice - a - day group , and 55 % in the ondansetron 32 - mg once - a - day group completed the 24 - hour study period with 0 emetic episodes and no rescue antiemetic medications , the primary endpoint of efficacy .
Each of the 3 treatment groups was shown to be statistically significantly superior to a historical placebo control .
2 In the same trial , 56 % of patients receiving oral ondansetron 24 mg once a day experienced no nausea during the 24 - hour study period , compared with 36 % of patients in the oral ondansetron 8 - mg twice - a - day group ( p = 0 . 001 ) and 50 % in the oral ondansetron 32 - mg once - a - day group .
In a second trial , efficacy of the oral ondansetron 24 - mg once - a - day regimen in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m , was confirmed .
2 In 1 double - blind US study in 67 patients , Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg administered twice a day were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy containing doxorubicin .
Treatment response is based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day study period .
The results of this study are summarized in Table 3 : Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy : Table 3 .
Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response Ondansetron 8 - mg b . i . d . Ondansetron Tablets a Placebo p Value Number of patients 33 34 Treatment response 0 Emetic episodes 1 - 2 Emetic episodes More than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 20 ( 61 % ) 6 ( 18 % ) 7 ( 21 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) 8 ( 24 % ) 24 ( 71 % ) < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Median number of emetic episodes 0 . 0 Undefined b Median time to first emetic episode ( h ) Undefined c 6 . 5 The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 - mg Tablet was administered twice a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
a Median undefined since at least 50 % of the patients were withdrawn or had more than 2 emetic episodes .
b Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
c In 1 double - blind US study in 336 patients , Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg administered twice a day were as effective as Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg administered 3 times a day in preventing nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy containing either methotrexate or doxorubicin .
Treatment response is based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day study period .
The results of this study are summarized in Table 4 : Table 4 .
Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response Ondansetron 8 - mg b . i . d . Ondansetron Tablets a 8 - mg t . i . d . Ondansetron Tablets b Number of patients 165 171 Treatment response 0 Emetic episodes 1 - 2 Emetic episodes More than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 101 ( 61 % ) 16 ( 10 % ) 48 ( 29 % ) 99 ( 58 % ) 17 ( 10 % ) 55 ( 32 % ) Median number of emetic episodes 0 . 0 0 . 0 Median time to first emetic episode ( h ) Undefined c Undefined c Median nausea scores ( 0 - 100 ) d 6 6 The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 - mg Ondansetron Tablet was administered twice a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
a The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 - mg Ondansetron Tablet was administered 3 times a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
b Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
c Visual analog scale assessment : 0 = no nausea , 100 = nausea as bad as it can be .
d In uncontrolled trials , 148 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy were re - treated with Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg 3 times daily during subsequent chemotherapy for a total of 396 re - treatment courses .
No emetic episodes occurred in 314 ( 79 % ) of the re - treatment courses , and only 1 to 2 emetic episodes occurred in 43 ( 11 % ) of the re - treatment courses .
Re - treatment : Three open - label , uncontrolled , foreign trials have been performed with 182 pediatric patients 4 to 18 years old with cancer who were given a variety of cisplatin or noncisplatin regimens .
In these foreign trials , the initial dose of ondansetron HCl Injection ranged from 0 . 04 to 0 . 87 mg / kg for a total dose of 2 . 16 to 12 mg .
This was followed by the administration of Ondansetron Tablets ranging from 4 to 24 mg daily for 3 days .
In these studies , 58 % of the 170 evaluable patients had a complete response ( no emetic episodes ) on day 1 .
Two studies showed the response rates for patients less than 12 years of age who received Ondansetron Tablets 4 mg 3 times a day to be similar to those in patients 12 to 18 years of age who received Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg 3 times daily .
Thus , prevention of emesis in these pediatric patients was essentially the same as for patients older than 18 years of age .
Overall , Ondansetron Tablets were well tolerated in these pediatric patients .
Pediatric Studies : In a randomized , double - blind study in 20 patients , Ondansetron Tablets ( 8 mg given 1 . 5 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy for 4 days ) were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by total body irradiation .
Total body irradiation consisted of 11 fractions ( 120 cGy per fraction ) over 4 days for a total of 1 , 320 cGy .
Patients received 3 fractions for 3 days , then 2 fractions on day 4 .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : Total Body Irradiation : Ondansetron was significantly more effective than metoclopramide with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) in a double - blind trial in 105 patients receiving single high - dose radiotherapy ( 800 to 1 , 000 cGy ) over an anterior or posterior field size of ≥ 80 cm to the abdomen .
Patients received the first dose of Ondansetron Tablets ( 8 mg ) or metoclopramide ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy .
If radiotherapy was given in the morning , 2 additional doses of study treatment were given ( 1 tablet late afternoon and 1 tablet before bedtime ) .
If radiotherapy was given in the afternoon , patients took only 1 further tablet that day before bedtime .
Patients continued the oral medication on a 3 times a day basis for 3 days .
Single High - Dose Fraction Radiotherapy : 2 Ondansetron was significantly more effective than prochlorperazine with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) in a double - blind trial in 135 patients receiving a 1 - to 4 - week course of fractionated radiotherapy ( 180 cGy doses ) over a field size of ≥ 100 cm to the abdomen .
Patients received the first dose of Ondansetron Tablets ( 8 mg ) or prochlorperazine ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before the patient received the first daily radiotherapy fraction , with 2 subsequent doses on a 3 times a day basis .
Patients continued the oral medication on a 3 times a day basis on each day of radiotherapy .
Daily Fractionated Radiotherapy : 2 Surgical patients who received ondansetron 1 hour before the induction of general balanced anesthesia ( barbiturate : thiopental , methohexital , or thiamylal ; opioid : alfentanil , sufentanil , morphine , or fentanyl ; nitrous oxide ; neuromuscular blockade : succinylcholine / curare or gallamine and / or vecuronium , pancuronium , or atracurium ; and supplemental isoflurane or enflurane ) were evaluated in 2 double - blind studies ( 1 US study , 1 foreign ) involving 865 patients .
Ondansetron Tablets ( 16 mg ) were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : The study populations in all trials thus far consisted of women undergoing inpatient surgical procedures .
No studies have been performed in males .
No controlled clinical study comparing Ondansetron Tablets to ondansetron Injection has been performed .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m .
2 2 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
3 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
4 .
Prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
As with other antiemetics , routine prophylaxis is not recommended for patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and / or vomiting will occur postoperatively .
In patients where nausea and / or vomiting must be avoided postoperatively , Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP is recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting is low .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansteron is contraindicated based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansteron .
Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP is contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT receptor antagonists .
3 PRECAUTIONS General : Ondansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver ( see ) .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
On the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Drug Interactions : CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics Based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansteron , concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansteron is contraindicated ( see ) .
Apomorphine : CONTRAINDICATIONS In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampicin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Phenytoin , Carbamazepine , and Rifampicin : 1 , 3 Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small studies indicate that ondansetron may be associated with an increase in patient controlled administration of tramadol .
Tramadol : 4 , 5 Tumor response to chemotherapy in the P - 388 mouse leukemia model is not affected by ondansetron .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
Chemotherapy : In a crossover study in 76 pediatric patients , I . V . ondansetron did not increase blood levels of high - dose methotrexate .
The coadministration of ondansetron had no effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of temazepam .
Use in Surgical Patients : Carcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats and rabbits at daily oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ondansetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Ondansetron is excreted in the breast milk of rats .
It is not known whether ondansetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ondansetron is administered to a nursing woman .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic EffectsNursing Mothers : Little information is available about dosage in pediatric patients 4 years of age or younger ( see and sections for use in pediatric patients 4 to 18 years of age ) .
Pediatric Use : CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Of the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients over the age of 65 ( see ) .
Geriatric Use : CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ADVERSE REACTIONS The following have been reported as adverse events in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron has been unclear in many cases .
The adverse events in Table 5 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adult patients receiving a single 24 - mg Ondansetron Tablet in 2 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent highly emetogenic cisplatin - based chemotherapy regimens ( cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m ) .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : 2 Table 5 .
Principal Adverse Events in US Trials : Single Day Therapy With 24 - mg Ondansetron Tablets ( Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy ) Event Ondansetron 24 mg q . d . n = 300 Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 124 Ondansetron 32 mg q . d . n = 117 Headache 33 ( 11 % ) 16 ( 13 % ) 17 ( 15 % ) Diarrhea 13 ( 4 % ) 9 ( 7 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) The adverse events in Table 6 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adults receiving either 8 mg of Ondansetron Tablets 2 or 3 times a day for 3 days or placebo in 4 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent moderately emetogenic chemotherapy , primarily cyclophosphamide - based regimens .
Table 6 .
Principal Adverse Events in US Trials : 3 Days of Therapy With 8 - mg Ondansetron Tablets ( Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy ) Event Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 242 Ondansetron 8 mg t . i . d . n = 415 Placebo n = 262 Headache 58 ( 24 % ) 113 ( 27 % ) 34 ( 13 % ) Malaise / fatigue 32 ( 13 % ) 37 ( 9 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) Constipation 22 ( 9 % ) 26 ( 6 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Diarrhea 15 ( 6 % ) 16 ( 4 % ) 10 ( 4 % ) Dizziness 13 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 4 % ) 12 ( 5 % ) There have been rare reports consistent with , but not diagnostic of , extrapyramidal reactions in patients receiving ondansetron .
Central Nervous System : In 723 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials , AST and / or ALT values have been reported to exceed twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of patients receiving Ondansetron Tablets .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes cannot be clearly determined .
Hepatic : There have been reports of liver failure and death in patients with cancer receiving concurrent medications including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Rash has occurred in approximately 1 % of patients receiving ondansetron .
Integumentary : Rare cases of anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina ( chest pain ) , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures have been reported .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron was unclear .
Other : The adverse events reported in patients receiving Ondansetron Tablets and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving Ondansetron Tablets and concurrent chemotherapy .
The most frequently reported adverse events were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events in Table 7 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of patients receiving Ondansetron Tablets at a dosage of 16 mg orally in clinical trials .
With the exception of headache , rates of these events were not significantly different in the ondansetron and placebo groups .
These patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : Table 7 .
Frequency of Adverse Events From Controlled Studies With Ondansetron Tablets ( Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting ) Adverse Event Ondansetron 16 mg ( n = 550 ) Placebo ( n = 531 ) Wound problem 152 ( 28 % ) 162 ( 31 % ) Drowsiness / sedation 112 ( 20 % ) 122 ( 23 % ) Headache 49 ( 9 % ) 27 ( 5 % ) Hypoxia 49 ( 9 % ) 35 ( 7 % ) Pyrexia 45 ( 8 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Dizziness 36 ( 7 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Gynecological disorder 36 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 6 % ) Anxiety / agitation 33 ( 6 % ) 29 ( 5 % ) Bradycardia 32 ( 6 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Shiver ( s ) 28 ( 5 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Urinary retention 28 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 3 % ) Hypotension 27 ( 5 % ) 32 ( 6 % ) Pruritus 27 ( 5 % ) 20 ( 4 % ) Preliminary observations in a small number of subjects suggest a higher incidence of headache when ondansetron ODT Orally Disintegrating Tablets are taken with water , when compared to without water .
In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during post - approval use of oral formulations of ondansetron .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to ondansetron .
Observed During Clinical Practice : Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
Cardiovascular : Flushing .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , shortness of breath , hypotension , laryngeal edema , stridor ) have also been reported .
Laryngospasm , shock , and cardiopulmonary arrest have occurred during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron .
General : Liver enzyme abnormalities Hepatobiliary : Hiccups Lower Respiratory : Oculogyric crisis , appearing alone , as well as with other dystonic reactions Neurology : Urticaria Skin : Eye Disorders : Cases of transient blindness , predominantly during intravenous administration , have been reported .
These cases of transient blindness were reported to resolve within a few minutes up to 48 hours .
Special Senses : DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Animal studies have shown that ondansetron is not discriminated as a benzodiazepine nor does it substitute for benzodiazepines in direct addiction studies .
OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
Individual intravenous doses as large as 150 mg and total daily intravenous doses as large as 252 mg have been inadvertently administered without significant adverse events .
These doses are more than 10 times the recommended daily dose .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in 1 patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of Ondansetron Tablets .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the events resolved completely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended adult oral dosage is 24 mg given as three 8 mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
Multiday , single - dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients .
Pediatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Geriatric Use : The recommended adult oral dosage is 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP given twice a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP should be administered twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults .
For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age , the dosage is 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP given 3 times a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP should be administered 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Pediatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Geriatric Use : The recommended oral dosage is 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP given 3 times a day .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Radiotherapy , Either Total Body Irradiation , or Single High - Dose Fraction or Daily Fractions to the Abdomen : , 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day .
For total body irradiation , 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen , 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen There is no experience with the use of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP in the prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Pediatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Postoperative The recommended dosage is 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfuls equivalent to 16 mg of ondansetron ) of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP 1 hour before induction of anesthesia .
Geriatric Use : Nausea and Vomiting : There is no experience with the use of Ondansetron Oral Solution , USP in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Pediatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Renal Function : In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half - life .
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function : 2 REFERENCES 1 .
Britto MR , Hussey EK , Mydlow P , et al .
Effect of enzyme inducers on ondansetron ( OND ) metabolism in humans .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1997 ; 61 : 228 .
2 .
Pugh RNH , Murray - Lyon IM , Dawson JL , Pietroni MC , Williams R . Transection of the oesophagus for bleeding oesophageal varices .
Brit J Surg .
1973 ; 60 : 646 - 649 .
3 .
Villikka K , Kivisto KT , Neuvonen PJ .
The effect of rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of oral and intravenous ondansetron .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1999 ; 65 : 377 - 381 .
4 .
De Witte JL , Schoenmaekers B , Sessler DI , et al .
Anesth Analg .
2001 ; 92 : 1319 - 1321 .
5 .
Arcioni R , della Rocca M , Romanò R , et al .
Anesth Analg .
2002 ; 94 : 1553 - 1557 .
Manufactured by : Branchburg , NJ 08876 Amneal Pharmaceuticals Rev . 11 - 2010 ONDANSETRON SOLUTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
