Rx only DESCRIPTION : Tobramycin ophthalmic solution is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external infections .
EACH mL CONTAINS : ACTIVE : Tobramycin 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) .
INACTIVES : Boric Acid , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Tyloxapol and Purified Water .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Sulfuric Acid may be added to adjust pH ( 7 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
The structural formula of tobramycin is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C18H37N5O9 Molecular weight : 467 . 52 Chemical name : O - [ 3 - amino - 3 - deoxy — α - D - gluco - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) ] - O - [ 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribohexo - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) ] - 2 - deoxystreptamine .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A - betahemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
A significant bacterial population resistant to tobramycin has not yet emerged ; however , bacterial resistance may develop upon prolonged use .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
If a sensitivity reaction to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS : General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Information for patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies in three types of animals at doses up to thirty - three times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution is localized ocular toxicity and hypersensitivity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin .
Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy ; however , if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics , care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration .
OVERDOSAGE : Clinically apparent signs and symptoms of an overdose of tobramycin ophthalmic solution ( punctate keratitis , erythema , increased lacrimation , edema and lid itching ) may be similar to adverse reaction effects seen in some patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : In mild to moderate disease , instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections , instill two drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY HOW SUPPLIED : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following size : 5 mL bottle - NDC 42254 - 187 - 05 Storage : Store at 2 ° - 30 ° C ( 36 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised August 2007 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
