RECENT MAJOR CHANGES 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenylephrine Hydrochloride is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for increasing blood pressure in adults with clinically important hypotension resulting primarily from vasodilation , in such settings as septic shock or anesthesia .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for increasing blood pressure in adults with clinically important hypotension resulting primarily from vasodilation , in such settings as septic shock or anesthesia .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dilute before administration ( 2 . 1 ) .
Dosing for Perioperative Hypotension • Intravenous bolus administration : 50 mcg to 250 mcg ( 2 . 4 ) • Intravenous continuous infusion : 0 . 5 mcg / kg / minute to 1 . 4 mcg / kg / minute titrated to effect ( 2 . 4 ) Dosing for Patients with Vasodilatory Shock • Intravenous continuous infusion : 0 . 5 mcg / kg / minute to 6 mcg / kg / minute titrated to effect ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 General Administration Instructions Phenylephrine hydrochloride must be diluted before administration as bolus intravenous infusion or continuous intravenous infusion .
Inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
The diluted solution should not be held for more than 4 hours at room temperature or for more than 24 hours under refrigerated conditions .
Discard any unused portion .
During phenylephrine hydrochloride administration : • Correct intravascular volume depletion .
• Correct acidosis .
Acidosis may reduce the effectiveness of phenylephrine .
2 . 2 Preparing a 100 mcg / mL Solution of Bolus Intravenous Administration For bolus intravenous administration , withdraw 10 mg ( 1 mL of a 10 mg / mL concentration ) of phenylephrine injection and dilute with 99 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
This will yield a final concentration of 100 mcg / mL .
Withdraw an appropriate dose from the 100 mcg / mL solution prior to bolus intravenous administration .
2 . 3 Preparing a Solution for Continuous Intravenous Infusion For continuous intravenous infusion , withdraw 10 mg ( 1 mL of 10 mg / mL concentration ) of phenylephrine hydrochloride injection and add to 500 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( providing a final concentration of 20 mcg / mL ) .
2 . 4 Dosing for Perioperative Setting In adult patients undergoing surgical procedures with either neuraxial anesthesia or general anesthesia : • 50 mcg to 250 mcg by intravenous bolus administration .
The most frequently reported initial bolus dose is 50 mcg or 100 mcg .
• 0 . 5 mcg / kg / min to 1 . 4 mcg / kg / min by intravenous continuous infusion , titrated to blood pressure goal .
2 . 5 Dosing for Septic or Other Vasodilatory Shock In adult patients with septic or other vasodilatory shock : • No bolus .
• 0 . 5 mcg / kg / min to 6 mcg / kg / min by intravenous continuous infusion , titrated to blood pressure goal .
Doses above 6 mcg / kg / min do not show significant incremental increase in blood pressure .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 10 mg / mL phenylephrine hydrochloride is supplied as a 1 mL single dose vial Injection : 10 mg / mL supplied as a 1 mL single dose vial ( 3 , 11 , 16 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of phenylephrine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with : • Hypersensitivity to it or any of its components • Hypersensitivity to it or any of its components ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output : ( 5 . 2 ) • Extravasation : during intravenous administration may cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue ( 5 . 4 ) • Concomitant use with oxytocic drugs : pressor effect of sympathomimetic pressor amines is potentiated ( 5 . 5 ) • Allergic - type reactions : Sulfite ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Exacerbation of Angina , Heart Failure , or Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Because of its pressor effects , phenylephrine hydrochloride can precipitate angina in patients with severe arteriosclerosis or history of angina , exacerbate underlying heart failure , and increase pulmonary arterial pressure .
5 . 2 Bradycardia Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output .
5 . 3 Risk in Patients with Autonomic Dysfunction The pressor response to adrenergic drugs , including phenylephrine , can be increased in patients with autonomic dysfunction , as may occur with spinal cord injuries .
5 . 4 Skin and Subcutaneous Necrosis Extravasation of phenylephrine can cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue .
5 . 5 Pressor Effect with Concomitant Oxytocic Drugs Oxytocic drugs potentiate the pressor effect of sympathomimetic pressor amines including phenylephrine hydrochloride [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] , with the potential for hemorrhagic stroke .
5 . 6 Allergic Reactions This product contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
5 . 7 Peripheral and Visceral Ischemia Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause excessive peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction and ischemia to vital organs , particularly in patients with extensive peripheral vascular disease .
5 . 8 Renal Toxicity Phenylephrine hydrochloride can increase the need for renal replacement therapy in patients with septic shock .
Monitor renal function .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of phenylephrine hydrochloride were identified in the literature .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorders : Bradycardia , AV block , ventricular extrasystoles , myocardial ischemia Gastrointestinal disorders : Nausea , vomiting General disorders and administrative site conditions : Chest pain , extravasation Immune system disorders : Sulfite sensitivity Nervous system disorders : Headache , nervousness , paresthesia , tremor Psychiatric disorders : Excitability Respiratory : Pulmonary edema , rales Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Diaphoresis , pallor , piloerection , skin blanching , skin necrosis with extravasation Vascular disorders : Hypertensive crisis Most common adverse reactions : nausea and vomiting , headache , nervousness ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agonistic effects with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) , β - adrenergic blocking agents , α - 2 adrenergic agonists , steroids , tricyclic antidepressants , norepinephrine transport inhibitors , ergot alkaloids , centrally - acting sympatholytic agents and atropine sulfate ( 7 . 1 ) .
Antagonistic effects on and by α - adrenergic blocking agents ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Agonists The pressor effect of phenylephrine hydrochloride is increased in patients receiving : • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) , such as selegiline .
• β - adrenergic blockers • α - 2 adrenergic agonists , such as clonidine • Steroids • Tricyclic antidepressants • Norepinephrine transport inhibitors , such as atomoxetine • Ergot alkaloids , such as methylergonovine maleate • Centrally - acting sympatholytic agents , such as guanfacine or reserpine • Atropine sulfate 7 . 2 Antagonists α - adrenergic blocking agents , including phenothiazines ( e . g . , chlorpromazine ) and amiodarone block phenylephrine and are in turn blocked by phenylephrine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with intravenous phenylephrine .
It is also not known whether phenylephrine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The most common maternal adverse reactions reported in studies of phenylephrine use during neuraxial anesthesia during cesarean delivery include nausea and vomiting , which are commonly associated with hypotension , bradycardia , reactive hypertension , and transient arrhythmias .
Phenylephrine does not appear to cause a decrease in placental perfusion sufficient to alter either the neonate Apgar scores or blood - gas status .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of phenylephrine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment In patients with liver cirrhosis [ Child Pugh Class A ( n = 3 ) , Class B ( n = 5 ) and Class C ( n = 1 ) ] , dose - response data indicate decreased responsiveness to phenylephrine .
Consider using larger doses than usual in hepatic impaired subjects .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) undergoing hemodialysis , dose - response data indicates increased responsiveness to phenylephrine .
Consider using lower doses of phenylephrine hydrochloride in ESRD patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause a rapid rise in blood pressure .
Symptoms of overdose include headache , vomiting , hypertension , reflex bradycardia , and cardiac arrhythmias including ventricular extrasystoles and ventricular tachycardia , and may cause a sensation of fullness in the head and tingling of the extremities .
Consider using an a - adrenergic antagonist .
11 DESCRIPTION Phenylephrine hydrochloride is a synthetic sympathomimetic agent in sterile form for parenteral injection .
Chemically , phenylephrine hydrochloride is ( - ) - m - Hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine hydrochloride is very soluble in water , freely soluble in ethanol , and insoluble in chloroform and ethyl ether .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride is sensitive to light .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a clear , colorless , aqueous solution that is essentially free of visible foreign matter .
Each mL contains : Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 10 mg ; Sodium Chloride 3 . 5 mg ; Sodium Citrate Dihydrate 4 mg ; Citric Acid Monohydrate 1 mg ; and Sodium Metabisulfite 2 mg in water for injection .
The pH may be adjusted in the range of 3 . 0 to 6 . 5 with Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid , if necessary .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phenylephrine hydrochloride is an α - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Phenylephrine is the active moiety .
Metabolites are inactive at both the α - 1 and α - 2 adrenergic receptors .
Following parenteral administration of phenylephrine hydrochloride , increases in systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , mean arterial blood pressure , and total peripheral vascular resistance are observed .
The onset of blood pressure increase following an intravenous bolus phenylephrine hydrochloride administration is rapid and the effect may persist for up to 20 minutes .
As mean arterial pressure increases following parenteral doses , vagal activity also increases , resulting in reflex bradycardia .
Most vascular beds are constricted , including renal , splanchnic , and hepatic .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following an intravenous infusion of phenylephrine hydrochloride , the effective half - life was approximately 5 minutes .
The steady - state volume of distribution ( 340 L ) exceeded the body volume by a factor of 5 , suggesting a high distribution into certain organ compartments .
The average total serum clearance ( 2095 mL / min ) was close to one - third of the cardiac output .
A mass balance study showed that phenylephrine is extensively metabolized by the liver with only 12 % of the dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Deamination by monoamino oxidase is the primary metabolic pathway resulting in the formation of the major metabolite ( m - hydroxymandelic acid ) which accounts for 57 % of the total administered dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Increases in systolic and mean blood pressure following administration of phenylephrine were observed in 42 literature - based studies in the perioperative setting , including 26 studies where phenylephrine was used in low - risk ( ASA 1 and 2 ) pregnant women undergoing neuraxial anesthesia during cesarean delivery , 3 studies in non - obstetric surgery under neuraxial anesthesia , and 13 studies in patients undergoing surgery under general anesthesia .
Mean arterial blood pressure increases were also observed in two double - blind , active - controlled studies in patients with septic shock .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection , USP , is supplied as follows : • NDC 0641 - 6229 - 25 : 1 mL single dose vials packaged in cartons containing 25 vials per carton .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Keep covered in carton until time of use .
For single use only .
Discard unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , families , or caregivers that the primary side effect of phenylephrine is hypertension and rarely , hypertensive crisis .
Patients may experience bradycardia ( slow heart rate ) , which in some cases may produce heart block or other cardiac arrhythmias , extra ventricular beats , myocardial ischemia in patients with underlying cardiac disease , and pulmonary edema ( fluid in the lungs ) or rales .
Common , less serious symptoms include the following : • chest pain • skin or tissue damage if the drug leaks out of the venous catheter into the surrounding tissue • headache , nervousness , tremor , numbness / tingling ( paresthesias ) in hands or feet • nausea , vomiting • excitability , dizziness , sweating , flushing PREMIERProRx ® Manufactured by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 PREMIERProRx ® is a registered trademark of Premier Healthcare Alliance , L . P . , used under license .
Revised : June 2021 462 - 785 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0641 - 6229 - 01 Phenylephrine HCl Injection , USP 10 mg / mL For Intravenous Use Dilute Before Use Protect from light 1 mL Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0641 - 6229 - 25 Rx only Phenylephrine HCl Injection , USP 10 mg / mL For Intravenous Use Dilute Before Use 25 x 1 mL Single Dose Vials Discard unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
